[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. The Corporation's business is subject to many risks and uncertainties.  Although the Corporation seeks ways to manage these risks and develop programs to control those that management can control, the Corporation ultimately cannot predict the extent to which these risks and uncertainties could affect the Corporation's results.  Actual results may differ materially from management's expectations.  The following discussion sets forth what the Corporation currently believes could be the most significant factors of which it is currently aware that could affect the Corporation's business, results of operations or financial condition.  You should consider all of the following risks together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. 17. Economic conditions may adversely affect the Corporation's financial performance.. The Corporation's businesses and results of operation are affected by the financial markets and general economic conditions in the United States, and particularly to adverse conditions in New York and Pennsylvania.  Key economic factors affecting the Corporation include the level and volatility of short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, home prices, unemployment and under-employment levels, bankruptcies, household income, consumer spending, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets and currencies, liquidity of the financial markets, the availability and the cost of capital and credit, investor sentiment, confidence in the financial markets, and the sustainability of economic growth.  The deterioration of any of these conditions could adversely affect the Corporation's consumer and commercial businesses, its securities and derivatives portfolios, its level of charge-offs and provision for credit losses, the carrying value of the Corporation's deferred tax assets, its capital levels and liquidity, and the Corporation's results of operations.. A decline or prolonged weakness in business and economic conditions generally or specifically in the principal markets in which the Corporation does business could have one or more of the following adverse effects on the Corporation's business:. i. a decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services;. ii. a decrease in the value of the Corporation's loans or other assets secured by consumer or commercial real estate;. iii. an impairment of certain of the Corporation's intangible assets, such as goodwill; and. iv. an increase in the number of borrowers and counter-parties who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans or other obligations to the Corporation.. For example, in 2018, S&P Global Rating lowered the long-term bond rating of Elmira, New York, the location of the Corporation's headquarters, to junk status due to the city's growing revenue challenges and current weak economy.. Additionally, in light of economic conditions, the Corporation's ability to assess the creditworthiness of its customers may be impaired if the models and approaches that it uses to select, manage and underwrite loans become less predictive of future behaviors.  Further, competition in the Corporation's industry may intensify as a result of consolidation of financial services companies in response to adverse market conditions and the Corporation may face increased regulatory scrutiny, which may increase its costs and limit its ability to pursue business opportunities.. Commercial real estate and business loans increase the Corporation's exposure to credit risks.. At December 31, 2017, the Corporation's portfolio of commercial real estate and business loans totaled $843.3 million or 64.3% of total loans.  The Corporation plans to continue to emphasize the origination of these types of loans, which generally expose the Corporation to a greater risk of nonpayment and loss than residential real estate or consumer loans because repayment of commercial real estate and business loans often depends on the successful operation and income stream of the borrower's business.  Additionally, such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to residential real estate and consumer loans.  Also, some of the Corporation's borrowers have more than one commercial loan outstanding.   Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose the Corporation to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to residential real estate and consumer loans.  In some instances, the Corporation has originated unsecured commercial loans with certain high net worth individuals who have personally guaranteed such loans.  This type of commercial loan has an increased risk of loss if the Corporation is unable to collect repayment through legal action due to personal bankruptcy or other financial limitations of the borrower.  The Corporation targets its business lending and marketing strategy towards small to medium-sized businesses.  These small to medium-sized businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities.  If general economic conditions negatively impact these businesses, the Corporation's results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected.. The Corporation's  portfolio of indirect automobile lending exposes it to increased credit risks.. At December 31, 2017, $153.1 million, or 11.7% of our total loan portfolio, consisted of automobile loans, primarily originated through automobile dealers for the purchase of new or used automobiles. The Corporation serves customers that cover a range of creditworthiness and the required terms and rates are reflective of those risk profiles. Automobile loans are inherently risky as they are often secured by assets that may be difficult to locate and can depreciate rapidly. In some cases, repossessed collateral for a defaulted automobile loan may not provide an adequate source of repayment for the outstanding loan and the remaining deficiency may not warrant further substantial collection efforts against the borrower. Automobile loan collections depend on the borrower's continuing financial stability, and therefore, are more likely to be adversely affected by job loss, divorce, illness, or personal bankruptcy. Additional risk elements associated with indirect lending include the limited personal contact with the borrower as a result of indirect lending through non-bank channels, namely automobile dealers.. 18. The allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in the loan portfolio.. The Corporation's customers may not repay their loans according to the original terms, and the collateral securing the payment of those loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance.  Hence, the Corporation may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's operating results.  Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of its loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of its borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans.  In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, management relies on loan quality reviews, past loss experience, and an evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors.  If these assumptions prove to be incorrect, the allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in the Corporation's loan portfolio, resulting in additions to the allowance.  Material additions to the allowance would materially decrease net income.. The Corporation's emphasis on the origination of commercial loans is one of the more significant factors in evaluating its allowance for loan losses.  As the Corporation continues to increase the amount of these loans, additional or increased provisions for loan losses may be necessary, which could result in a decrease in earnings.. Bank regulators periodically review the Corporation's allowance for loan losses and may require the Corporation to increase its provision for loan losses or loan charge-offs. Any increase in the allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's results of operations and/or financial condition.. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect the Corporation's results of operations and financial condition.. The Corporation's results of operations and financial condition are significantly affected by changes in interest rates.  The Corporation's financial results depend substantially on net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income that it earns on interest-earning assets and the interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities.  If the Corporation's interest-bearing liabilities mature or reprice more quickly than its interest-earning assets in a given period as a result of increasing interest rates, net interest income may decrease.  Likewise, net interest income may decrease if interest-earning assets mature or reprice more quickly than interest-bearing liabilities in a given period as a result of decreasing interest rates.  The Corporation has taken steps to mitigate this risk, such as holding fewer longer-term residential mortgages, as well as investing excess funds in shorter-term investments.. Changes in interest rates also affect the fair value of the Corporation's interest-earning assets and, in particular, its investment securities available for sale.  Generally, the fair value of investment securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates.  Decreases in the fair value of investment securities available for sale, therefore, could have an adverse effect on its shareholders' equity or earnings if the decrease in fair value is deemed to be other than temporary.. Changes in interest rates may also affect the average life of loans and mortgage-related securities.  Increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans.  Additionally, decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance to reduce borrowing costs.  Under these circumstances, the Corporation is subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that it is unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on its existing loans and securities.. Municipal deposits are generally more sensitive to interest rates and may require competitive rates at placement and subsequent rollover dates, which may make it more difficult for the Bank to attract and retain public and municipal deposits.  Additionally, when municipal deposits exceed FDIC coverage, any amounts not insured under the FDIC must be properly secured through a pledge of eligible securities.  The requirement that the Bank collateralize municipal deposits above FDIC insurance may have an adverse effect on the Corporation's liquidity.. Strong competition within the Corporation's industry and market area could limit its growth and profitability.. The Corporation faces substantial competition in all phases of its operations from a variety of different competitors.  Future growth and success will depend on the ability to compete effectively in this highly competitive environment. The Corporation competes for deposits, loans and other financial services with a variety of banks, thrifts, credit unions and other financial institutions as well as other entities, which provide financial services.  Some of the financial institutions and financial services organizations with which the Corporation competes with are not subject to the same degree of regulation as the Corporation. Many competitors have been in business for many years, have established customer bases, are larger, and have substantially higher lending limits.  The financial services industry is also likely to become more competitive as further technological advances enable more companies to provide financial services.  These technological advances may diminish the importance of depository institutions and other financial intermediaries in the transfer of funds between parties.. 19. The Corporation's growth strategy may not prove to be successful and its market value and profitability may suffer.. As part of the Corporation's strategy for continued growth, it may open additional branches.  New branches do not initially contribute to operating profits due to the impact of overhead expenses and the start-up phase of generating loans and deposits.  To the extent that additional branches are opened, the Corporation may experience the effects of higher operating expenses relative to operating income from the new operations, which may have an adverse effect on the Corporation's levels of net income, return on average equity and return on average assets.. In addition, the Corporation may acquire banks and related businesses that it believes provide a strategic fit with its business, such as the 2011 acquisition of FOFC and the 2013 acquisition of six branches from Bank of America.  To the extent that the Corporation grows through acquisitions, it cannot provide assurance that such strategic decisions will be accretive to earnings.. Compliance with the Dodd-Frank Act has increased the Corporation's costs of operations and may adversely affect the Corporation's earnings and financial condition.. The Dodd-Frank Act significantly changed the then-existing bank regulatory structure and affected the lending, deposit, investment, trading, and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act changed the regulatory structure to which the Corporation and the Bank are subject in numerous ways, including, but not limited to, the following:. • the base for FDIC insurance assessments has been changed to a bank's average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity, rather than upon its deposit base, while the FDIC's authority to raise insurance premiums has been expanded;. • the current standard deposit insurance limit has been permanently raised to $250,000;. • the FDIC must raise the ratio of reserves to deposits from 1.15% to 1.35% for deposit insurance purposes by September 30, 2020 and to \"offset the effect\" of increased assessments on insured depository institutions with assets of less than $10.0 billion;. • the interchange fees payable on debit card transactions have been limited;. • there are multiple new provisions affecting corporate governance and executive compensation at all publicly traded companies; and. • all federal prohibitions on the ability of financial institutions to pay interest on commercial demand deposit accounts have been repealed.. In addition to the foregoing, the Dodd-Frank Act established the CFPB as an independent entity within the FRB. The CFPB has broad rulemaking, supervisory and enforcement authority over consumer financial products and services, including deposit products, residential mortgages, home-equity loans and credit cards, as well as with respect to certain mortgage-related matters, such as steering incentives, determinations as to a borrower's ability to repay and prepayment penalties.. As a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, operating and compliance costs have increased and may continue to increase in the future.. The Corporation operates in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations.. Currently, the Corporation and its subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation, supervision, and examination by regulatory authorities.  For example, the FRB regulates the Corporation, the FRB, the FDIC and the NYSDFS regulate the Bank, and CRM is regulated by the Nevada Division of Insurance.  Such regulators govern the activities in which the Corporation and its subsidiaries may engage.  These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of a bank, the classification of assets by a bank, and the adequacy of a bank's allowance for loan losses.  Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation, could have a material impact on the Corporation and its operations.  The Corporation believes that it is in substantial compliance with applicable federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations.  As the Corporation's business is highly regulated, the laws, rules and applicable regulations are subject to regular modification and change.  There can be no assurance that proposed laws, rules and regulations, or any other law, rule or regulation, will not be adopted in the future, which could make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise adversely affect the Corporation's business, financial condition or prospects.. 20. The Corporation and Bank have become subject to more stringent capital requirements, which may adversely impact the Corporation's return on equity, require it to raise additional capital, or constrain it from paying dividends or repurchasing shares.. In July 2013, the Federal Reserve Board approved a new rule that substantially amended the regulatory risk-based capital rules applicable to the Corporation, on a consolidated basis, and the Bank, on a stand-alone basis. The final rule implements the \"Basel III\" regulatory capital reforms and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act.. The final rule includes new minimum risk-based capital and leverage ratios, which became effective for the Corporation and the Bank on January 1, 2015, and refines the definition of what constitutes \"capital\" for purposes of calculating these ratios. The new minimum capital requirements are: (i) a new common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%; (ii) a Tier 1 to risk-based assets capital ratio of 6% (increased from 4%); (iii) a total capital ratio of 8% (unchanged from former rules); and (iv) a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4%. The final rule also establishes a \"capital conservation buffer\" of 2.5%, and will result in the following minimum ratios: (i) a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 7.0%, (ii) a Tier 1 to risk-based assets capital ratio of 8.5%, and (iii) a total capital ratio of 10.5%. The new capital conservation buffer requirement is being phased in beginning in January 2016 at 0.625% of risk-weighted assets and will increase each year until fully implemented in January 2019. For 2018, the capital conservation buffer will be 1.875% of risk-weighted assets. An institution will be subject to limitations on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases, and paying discretionary bonuses if its capital level falls below the buffer amount. These limitations will establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that can be utilized for such actions.. The application of more stringent capital requirements for the Bank and the Corporation could, among other things, result in lower returns on equity, require the raising of additional capital, and result in regulatory actions constraining them from paying dividends or repurchasing shares if they are unable to comply with such requirements.. Changes in tax rates could adversely affect the Corporation's results of operations and financial condition.. The Corporation is subject to the income tax laws of the United States, its states, and municipalities.  The income tax laws of the jurisdictions in which the Corporation operates are complex and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and the relevant government taxing authorities.  In establishing a provision for income tax expense, the Corporation must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these inherently complex tax laws to its business activities, as well as the timing of when certain items may affect taxable income.. The provision for income taxes is composed of current and deferred taxes.  Deferred taxes arise from differences between assets and liabilities measured for financial reporting versus income tax return purposes.  Deferred tax assets are recognized if, in the Corporation's judgment, their realizability is determined to be more likely than not.  The Corporation performs regular reviews to ascertain the realizability of its deferred tax assets.  These reviews include the Corporation's estimates and assumptions regarding future taxable income, which incorporates various tax planning strategies.. The Corporation may be adversely affected by recent changes in U.S. tax laws and regulations.. Changes in tax laws contained in the Tax Act, which was enacted in December 2017, include a number of provisions that will have an impact on the banking industry, borrowers and the market for single-family residential real estate.  Included in this legislation is a reduction of the corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%.  In addition, other changes include (i) a lower limit on the deductibility of mortgage interest on single-family residential mortgage loans, (ii) the elimination of interest deductions for home equity loans, (iii) a limitation on the deductibility of business interest expense and (iv) a limitation on the deductibility of property taxes and state and local income taxes.  These recent changes in the tax laws may have an adverse effect on the market for, and valuation of, residential properties, and on the demand for such loans in the future, and could make it harder for borrowers to make their loan payments. In addition, these recent changes may also have a disproportionate effect on taxpayers in states with high residential home prices and high state and local taxes, such as New York.  If home ownership becomes less attractive, demand for mortgage loans could decrease.  The value of the properties securing loans in the Corporation's loan portfolio may be adversely impacted as a result of the changing economics of home ownership, which could require an increase in the Corporation's provision for loan losses, which would reduce its profitability and could materially adversely affect the Corporation's business, financial condition and results of operations.. 21. The Corporation is a holding company and depends on its subsidiaries for dividends, distributions and other payments.. The Corporation is a legal entity separate and distinct from the Bank and other subsidiaries.  Its principal source of cash flow, including cash flow to pay dividends to its shareholders, is dividends from the Bank.  There are statutory and regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends by the Bank to the Corporation, as well as by the Corporation to its shareholders.  FRB regulations affect the ability of the Bank to pay dividends and other distributions and to make loans to the Corporation.  If the Bank is unable to make dividend payments to the Corporation and sufficient capital is not otherwise available, the Corporation may not be able to make dividend payments to its common shareholders.. The Corporation holds certain intangible assets that could be classified as impaired in the future.  If these assets are considered to be either partially or fully impaired in the future, its earnings and the book values of these assets would decrease.. The Corporation is required to test its goodwill and core deposit intangible assets for impairment on a periodic basis.  The impairment testing process considers a variety of factors, including the current market price of its common stock, the estimated net present value of its assets and liabilities, and information concerning the terminal valuation of similarly situated insured depository institutions.  If an impairment determination is made in a future reporting period, its earnings and the book value of these intangible assets would be reduced by the amount of the impairment.  If an impairment loss is recorded, it will have little or no impact on the tangible book value of the Corporation's common shares or its regulatory capital levels, but such an impairment loss could significantly restrict the Bank from paying a dividend to the Corporation.. Financial counterparties expose the Corporation to risks.. The Corporation has increased its use of derivative financial instruments, primarily interest rate swaps, which exposes it to financial and contractual risks with counterparty banks. The Corporation maintains correspondent bank relationships, manages certain loan participations, engages in securities transactions, and engages in other activities with financial counterparties that are customary to its industry.  Financial risks are inherent in these counterparty relationships.. The Corporation may not be able to attract and retain skilled people.. The Corporation's success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people in most activities in which the Corporation engages can be intense and it may not be able to hire people or to retain them.  A key component of employee retention is providing a fair compensation base combined with the opportunity for additional compensation for above average performance.  In this regard, the Corporation uses a stock-based compensation program that aligns the interest of the Corporation's executives and senior managers with the interests of the Corporation, and its shareholders.. The Corporation's compensation practices are designed to be competitive and comparable to those of its peers, however, the unexpected loss of services of one or more of the Corporation's key personnel could have a material adverse impact on the business because it would lose the employees' skills, knowledge of the market, and years of industry experience and may have difficulty promptly finding qualified replacement personnel.. The Corporation's controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented, which may result in a material adverse effect on its business.. Management regularly reviews and updates its internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met.. 22. The Corporation continually encounters technological change and the failure to understand and adapt to these changes could adversely affect its business.. The banking industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services.  Technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for \"non-banks\" to offer traditional bank products and services using innovative technological platforms such as Fintech and Blockchain.  These \"digital banks\" may be able to achieve economies of scale and offer better pricing for banking products and services than the Corporation can.  The Corporation's future success will depend, in part, on the ability to address the needs of customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience as well as to create additional efficiencies in operations.  Many competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements.  There can be no assurance that the Corporation will be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing such products and services to customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on the Corporation's business and, in turn, its financial condition and results of operations.. The Corporation is subject to security and operational risks relating to its use of technology.. Despite instituted safeguards, the Corporation cannot be certain that all of its systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack or other technological difficulties or failures, such as cyber-attacks. The Corporation relies on the services of a variety of vendors to meet its data processing and communication needs. If information security is breached or other technology difficulties or failures occur, information may be lost or misappropriated, services and operations may be interrupted and the Corporation could be exposed to claims from customers.  Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.. Provisions of the Corporation's certificate of incorporation, bylaws, as well as New York law and certain banking laws, could delay or prevent a takeover of the Corporation by a third party.. Provisions of the Corporation's certificate of incorporation and bylaws, New York law, and state and federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, could delay, defer or prevent a third party from acquiring the Corporation, despite the possible benefit to the Corporation's shareholders, or otherwise adversely affect the market price of the Corporation's common stock. These provisions include: a two-thirds affirmative vote of all outstanding shares of Corporation stock for certain business combinations; a supermajority shareholder vote of 75% of outstanding stock for business combinations involving 10% shareholders; the election of directors to staggered terms of three years; and advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the Corporation's Board of Directors and for proposing matters that shareholders may act on at a shareholder meeting. In addition, the Corporation is subject to New York law, which among other things prohibits the Corporation from engaging in a business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of five years from the date the person became an interested stockholder unless certain conditions are met. These provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discouraging bids for the Corporation's common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of the Corporation's common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for shareholders to elect directors other than candidates nominated by the Board of Directors.. The risks presented by acquisitions could adversely affect the Corporation's financial condition and results of operations.. The business strategy of the Corporation has included and may continue to include growth through acquisition from time to time. Any future acquisitions will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in acquisitions. These risks may include, among other things: its ability to realize anticipated cost savings, the difficulty of integrating operations and personnel, the loss of key employees, the potential disruption of its or the acquired company's ongoing business in such a way that could result in decreased revenues, the inability of its management to maximize its financial and strategic position, the inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, and the impairment of relationships with the acquired company's employees and customers as a result of changes in ownership and management.. Severe weather and other natural disasters can affect the Corporation's business.. The Corporation's main office and its branch offices can be affected by natural disasters such as severe storms and flooding.  These kinds of events could interrupt the Corporation's operations, particularly its ability to deliver deposit and other retail banking services to its customers and as a result, the Corporation's business could suffer serious harm.  While the Corporation maintains adequate insurance against property and casualty losses arising from most natural disasters, and it has successfully overcome the challenges caused by past flooding in Central New York, there can be no assurance that it will be as successful if and when disasters occur.. 23. The Corporation's accounting policies and estimates are critical to how the Corporation reports its financial condition and results of operations, and any changes to such accounting policies and estimates could materially affect how the Corporation reports its financial condition and results of operations.. Management has identified certain accounting policies as being critical because they require management's judgment to ascertain the valuations of assets, liabilities, commitments and contingencies. A variety of factors could affect the ultimate value that is obtained either when earning income, recognizing an expense, recovering an asset, valuing an asset or liability or reducing a liability. The Corporation has established detailed policies and control procedures that are intended to ensure that these critical accounting estimates and judgments are well controlled and applied consistently. In addition, these policies and procedures are intended to ensure that the process for changing methodologies occurs in an appropriate manner. Because of the uncertainty surrounding its judgments and the estimates pertaining to these matters, actual outcomes may be materially different from amounts previously estimated. For example, because of the inherent uncertainty of estimates, management cannot provide any assurance that the Bank will not significantly increase its allowance for loan losses if actual losses are more than the amount reserved. Any increase in its allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the Corporation cannot guarantee that it will not be required to adjust accounting policies or restate prior financial statements.. Further, from time to time, the FASB and SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of the Corporation's financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how the Corporation records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, the Corporation could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in its restating prior period financial statements or otherwise adversely affecting its financial condition or results of operations.. Specifically, in June of 2016, FASB issued a new accounting standard, ASU 2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326) that will substantially change the accounting for credit losses under GAAP.  Under GAAP's current standards, credit losses are not reflected in the Corporation's financial statements until it is probable that the credit losses has been incurred.  This methodology has the effect of delaying the recognition of credit losses on loans.  Under the new credit loss standard, the allowance for credit losses will be an estimate of the \"expected\" credit losses on loans.  The new credit loss standard may have a negative impact on the reporting of results of operations and financial condition of the Corporation.  The amendments in this ASU are effective for public companies for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, though entities may adopt the amendments earlier for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018.. There may be claims and litigation pertaining to fiduciary responsibility.. From time to time as part of the Corporation's normal course of business, customers make claims and take legal action against the Corporation based on its actions or inactions related to the fiduciary responsibilities of the Wealth Management Group segment.  If such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to the Corporation, they may result in financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of the Corporation and its products and services. This may also impact customer demand for the Corporation's products and services. Any financial liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations."
