[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Limited partner interests are inherently different from the capital stock of a corporation, although many of the business risks to which we are subject are similar to those that would be faced by a corporation engaged in a similar business.  The following are some of the important factors that could affect our financial performance or could cause actual results to differ materially from estimates or expectations contained in our forward-looking statements.  We may encounter risks in addition to those described below.  Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us, or that we currently deem to be immaterial, may also impair or adversely affect our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, liquidity and prospects.. The risk factors in this report are grouped into the following categories:. • Risks Relating to Our Financial Matters;. • Risks Relating to Our Business;. • Risks Relating to Our Cash Distributions;. • Risks Relating to an Investment in Us and Our Common Units; and. • Risks Relating to Tax Matters.. Risks Relating to Our Financial Matters. Our existing level of cash resources and significant debt could cause us to have inadequate liquidity and could materially and adversely affect our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects.. As of December 31, 2017, we had zero cash and cash equivalents, $1.6 billion of current restricted cash and $16.2 billion of total debt outstanding on a consolidated basis (before debt discounts, debt premiums and unamortized debt issuance costs), excluding $750 million aggregate outstanding letters of credit.  We incur, and will incur, significant interest expense relating to the assets at the Sabine Pass LNG terminal and we anticipate needing to incur additional debt to finance the construction of Train 6 of the Liquefaction Project.  Our ability to fund our capital expenditures and refinance our indebtedness will depend on our ability to access additional project financing as well as the debt and equity capital markets.  A variety of factors beyond our control could impact the availability or cost of capital, including domestic or international economic conditions, increases in key benchmark interest rates and/or credit spreads, the adoption of new or amended banking or capital market laws or regulations and the repricing of market risks and volatility in capital and financial markets.  Our financing costs could increase or future borrowings or equity offerings may be unavailable to us or unsuccessful, which could cause us to be unable to pay or refinance our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs.  We also rely on borrowings under our credit facilities (the \"2016 CQP Credit Facilities\") to fund our capital expenditures.  If any of the lenders in the syndicates backing these facilities was unable to perform on its commitments, we may need to seek replacement financing, which may not be available as needed, or may be available in more limited amounts or on more expensive or otherwise unfavorable terms.. 12. We have not been profitable historically.  We may not achieve profitability or generate positive operating cash flow in the future.. We had net income of $490 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 and net losses of $171 million and $319 million for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively.  In the future, we may incur operating losses and experience negative operating cash flow.  We may not be able to reduce costs, increase revenues, or reduce our debt service obligations sufficiently to maintain our cash resources, which could cause us to have inadequate liquidity to continue our business.. We will continue to incur significant capital and operating expenditures while we develop and construct the Liquefaction Project.  Any delays beyond the expected development period for our Trains could cause, and could increase the level of, our operating losses.  Our future liquidity may also be affected by the timing of construction financing availability in relation to the incurrence of construction costs and other outflows and by the timing of receipt of cash flows under SPAs in relation to the incurrence of project and operating expenses.  Moreover, many factors (including factors beyond our control) could result in a disparity between liquidity sources and cash needs, including factors such as construction delays and breaches of agreements.  Our ability to generate any significant positive operating cash flow and achieve profitability in the future is dependent on our ability to successfully and timely complete and operate the applicable Train.. We may sell equity or equity-related securities, including additional common units.  Such sales could dilute our unitholders' proportionate indirect interests in our assets, business operations, Liquefaction Project and other projects, and could adversely affect the market price of our common units.. We have pursued and are pursuing a number of alternatives in order to finance the construction of Train 6, including potential issuances and sales of additional equity or equity-related securities.  Such sales, in one or more transactions, could dilute our unitholders' proportionate indirect interests in our assets, business operations and proposed projects, including the Liquefaction Project.  In addition, such sales, or the anticipation of such sales, could adversely affect the market price of our common units.. Our ability to generate cash is substantially dependent upon the performance by customers under long-term contracts that we have entered into, and we could be materially and adversely affected if any customer fails to perform its contractual obligations for any reason.. Our future results and liquidity are substantially dependent upon performance by Chevron and Total, each of which has entered into a TUA with SPLNG and agreed to pay SPLNG approximately $125 million annually, and on the performance, upon satisfaction of the conditions precedent to payment thereunder, by six third-party customers that have entered into SPAs with SPL and agreed to pay SPL an aggregate of $2.9 billion annually in fixed fees.  We are dependent on each customer's continued willingness and ability to perform its obligations under its SPA.  We are exposed to the credit risk of any guarantor of these customers' obligations under their respective TUA or SPA in the event that we must seek recourse under a guaranty.  If any customer fails to perform its obligations under its TUA or SPA, our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects could be materially and adversely affected, even if we were ultimately successful in seeking damages from that customer or its guarantor for a breach of the TUA or SPA.. Each of our customer contracts is subject to termination under certain circumstances.. Each of SPLNG's long-term TUAs contains various termination rights.  For example, each customer may terminate its TUA if the Sabine Pass LNG terminal experiences a force majeure delay for longer than 18 months, fails to redeliver a specified amount of natural gas in accordance with the customer's redelivery nominations or fails to accept and unload a specified number of the customer's proposed LNG cargoes.  SPLNG may not be able to replace these TUAs on desirable terms, or at all, if they are terminated.. Each of SPL's SPAs contains various termination rights allowing our customers to terminate their SPAs, including, without limitation: (1) upon the occurrence of certain events of force majeure; (2) if we fail to make available specified scheduled cargo quantities; and (3) delays in the commencement of commercial operations.  We may not be able to replace these SPAs on desirable terms, or at all, if they are terminated.. 13. Our use of hedging arrangements may adversely affect our future operating results or liquidity.. To reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the price, volume and timing risk associated with the purchase of natural gas, we use futures, swaps and option contracts traded or cleared on the Intercontinental Exchange and the New York Mercantile Exchange, or over-the-counter options and swaps with other natural gas merchants and financial institutions.  Hedging arrangements would expose us to risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including when:. • expected supply is less than the amount hedged;. • the counterparty to the hedging contract defaults on its contractual obligations; or. • there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the hedging agreement and actual prices received.. The use of derivatives also may require the posting of cash collateral with counterparties, which can impact working capital when commodity prices change.. The swaps regulatory and other provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and the rules adopted thereunder and other regulations could adversely affect our ability to hedge risks associated with our business and our operating results and cash flows.. The provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and the rules adopted and to be adopted by the CFTC, the SEC and other federal regulators establishing federal regulation of the over-the-counter (\"OTC\") derivatives market and entities like us that participate in that market may adversely affect our ability to manage certain of our risks on a cost effective basis.  Such laws and regulations may also adversely affect our ability to execute our strategies with respect to hedging our exposure to variability in expected future cash flows attributable to the future sale of our LNG inventory and to price risk attributable to future purchases of natural gas to be utilized as fuel to operate our LNG terminals and to secure natural gas feedstock for our Liquefaction Project.. The CFTC has re-proposed position limits rules that would modify and expand the applicability of position limits on the amounts of certain speculative futures contracts, as well as economically equivalent options, futures and swaps for or linked to certain physical commodities, including Henry Hub natural gas, that market participants may hold, subject to limited exemptions for certain bona fide hedging positions and other types of transactions.  The CFTC also has adopted final rules regarding aggregation of positions that apply to futures on agricultural commodities, under which a party that controls the trading for the account of, or owns 10% or more of the equity interests in, another party will have to aggregate the positions in all such controlled accounts and of all such controlled or owned parties with their own positions for purposes of determining compliance with position limits rules unless an exemption applies.  To the extent the revised CFTC position limits proposal becomes final, our ability to execute our hedging strategies described above could be limited.  It is uncertain at this time whether, when and in what form the CFTC's proposed new position limits rules may become final and effective.. Under the Dodd-Frank Act and the rules adopted thereunder, we may be required to clear through a derivatives clearing organization any swaps into which we enter that fall within a class of swaps designated by the CFTC for mandatory clearing and we could have to execute trades in such swaps on certain trading platforms or exchanges.  The CFTC has designated certain interest rate swaps and index credit default swaps for mandatory clearing, but has not yet proposed rules designating any physical commodity swaps, for mandatory clearing or mandatory exchange trading.  Although we expect to qualify for the end-user exception from the mandatory clearing and trade execution requirements for our swaps entered into to hedge our commercial risks, if we fail to qualify for that exception as to any swap we enter into and have to clear that swap through a derivatives clearing organization, we could be required to post margin with respect to such swap, our cost of entering into and maintaining such swap could increase and we would not enjoy the same flexibility with the cleared swaps that we enjoy with the uncleared OTC swaps we enter into.  Moreover, the application of the mandatory clearing and trade execution requirements to other market participants, such as swap dealers, may change the market cost and general availability in the market of swaps of the type we enter into to hedge our commercial risks and, thus, the cost and availability of the swaps that we use for hedging.. As required by the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFTC and federal banking regulators have adopted rules to require certain market participants to collect and post initial and/or variation margin with respect to uncleared swaps from their counterparties that are financial end users and certain registered swap dealers and major swap participants.  Although we believe we will not be required to post margin with respect to any uncleared swaps we enter into in the future, were we required to post margin as to our uncleared swaps in the future, our cost of entering into and maintaining swaps would be increased.  Our counterparties that are subject to the regulations imposing the Basel III capital requirements on them may increase the cost to us of entering into swaps with them or, although not required to collect margin from us under the margin rules, contractually require us to post collateral with them in. 14. connection with such swaps in order to offset their increased capital costs or to reduce their capital costs to maintain those swaps on their balance sheets.. The Dodd-Frank Act also imposes other regulatory requirements on swaps market participants, including end users of swaps, such as regulations relating to swap documentation, reporting and recordkeeping, and certain business conduct rules applicable to swap dealers and major swap participants.  Together with the Basel III capital requirements on certain swaps market participants, the regulatory requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act and the rules thereunder relating to swaps and derivatives market participants could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including through requirements to post margin or collateral), materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against certain risks that we encounter and reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts and to execute our hedging strategies.  If, as a result of the swaps regulatory regime discussed above, we were to reduce our use of swaps to hedge our risks, such as commodity price risks that we encounter in our operations, our operating results and cash flows may become more volatile and could be otherwise adversely affected.. We expect that our hedging activities will remain subject to significant and developing regulations and regulatory oversight.  However, the full impact of the various U.S. (and non-U.S.) regulatory developments in connection with these activities will not be known with certainty until such derivatives market regulations are fully implemented and related market practices and structures are fully developed.. In making our investment decisions for the Liquefaction Project, we have relied on several economic development programs in Louisiana, including Industrial Tax Exemption (\"ITE\") contracts.  If we were to lose significant tax incentives through the economic development programs or if the ITE contracts were declared void, the loss of such tax incentives and/or exemptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects.. SPL has utilized the ITE program, which is available for a \"new\" manufacturing establishment or an \"addition\" to an existing manufacturing establishment.  SPL has entered into a total of nine ITE contracts, which exempt from ad valorem property taxes all of SPL's assets when placed in service.. On October 12, 2016, a lawsuit was filed by JMCB, LLC (\"JMCB\") against SPL, the Louisiana Department of Economic Development (\"LED\") and the Louisiana Board of Commerce and Industry (\"BCI\") (the \"Pending Matter\").  In the Pending Matter, JMCB contends that one of SPL's ITE contracts should be declared an improper and unauthorized act of BCI.  JMCB asks the court to declare the contract null and void and without legal effect.  JMCB's petition is filed as a class action that seeks declaratory relief for all similarly situated taxpayers in Cameron Parish and for the governmental agencies that would have received the ad valorem property taxes, but for the ITE contract.  SPL believes that the likelihood that the resolution of the Pending Matter will have a material adverse effect on our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity or prospects is remote.  If we do not prevail in the Pending Matter, the loss of such tax exemption could have a material adverse effect on our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects.. Risks Relating to Our Business. Operation of the Sabine Pass LNG terminal, the Liquefaction Project, the Creole Trail Pipeline and other facilities that we may construct involves significant risks.. As more fully discussed in these Risk Factors, the Sabine Pass LNG terminal, the Liquefaction Project, the Creole Trail Pipeline and our other existing and proposed LNG facilities face operational risks, including the following:. • the facilities' performing below expected levels of efficiency;. • breakdown or failures of equipment;. • operational errors by vessel or tug operators;. • operational errors by us or any contracted facility operator;. • labor disputes; and. • weather-related interruptions of operations.. 15. We may not be successful in fully implementing our proposed business strategy to provide liquefaction capabilities at the Sabine Pass LNG terminal adjacent to the existing regasification facilities.. It will take several years to construct the Liquefaction Project, and even if successfully constructed, the Liquefaction Project would be subject to the operating risks described herein.  Accordingly, there are many risks associated with the Liquefaction Project, and if we are not successful in implementing our business strategy, we may not be able to generate cash flows, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects.. Cost overruns and delays in the completion of one or more Trains, as well as difficulties in obtaining sufficient financing to pay for such costs and delays, could have a material adverse effect on our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects.. The actual construction costs of the Trains may be significantly higher than our current estimates as a result of many factors, including change orders under existing or future EPC contracts resulting from the occurrence of certain specified events that may give Bechtel the right to cause us to enter into change orders or resulting from changes with which we otherwise agree.  We have already experienced increased costs due to change orders.  We do not have any prior experience in constructing liquefaction facilities, and other than Trains 1 through 4 of the Liquefaction Project, as of January 2018, no liquefaction facilities have been constructed and placed in service in the United States in over 40 years.  As construction progresses, we may decide or be forced to submit change orders to our contractor that could result in longer construction periods, higher construction costs or both, including change orders to comply with existing or future environmental or other regulations.. Delays in the construction of one or more Trains beyond the estimated development periods, as well as change orders to the EPC contracts with Bechtel or any future EPC contract related to additional Trains, could increase the cost of completion beyond the amounts that we estimate, which could require us to obtain additional sources of financing to fund our operations until the Liquefaction Project is fully constructed (which could cause further delays).  Our ability to obtain financing that may be needed to provide additional funding to cover increased costs will depend, in part, on factors beyond our control.  Accordingly, we may not be able to obtain financing on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all.  Even if we are able to obtain financing, we may have to accept terms that are disadvantageous to us or that may have a material adverse effect on our current or future business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects.. Delays in the completion of one or more Trains could lead to reduced revenues or termination of one or more of the SPAs by our customers.. Any delay in completion of a Train could cause a delay in the receipt of revenues projected therefrom or cause a loss of one or more customers in the event of significant delays.  In particular, each of our SPAs provides that the customer may terminate that SPA if the relevant Train does not timely commence commercial operations.  As a result, any significant construction delay, whatever the cause, could have a material adverse effect on our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects.. Our ability to complete development of Train 6 will be contingent on our ability to obtain additional funding.  If we are unable to obtain sufficient funding, we may be unable to fully execute our business strategy.. We will require significant additional funding to be able to commence construction of Train 6, which we may not be able to obtain at a cost that results in positive economics, or at all.  The inability to achieve acceptable funding may cause a delay in the development of Train 6, and we may not be able to complete our business plan.  Even if we are able to obtain funding, the funding may be inadequate to cover any increases in costs or delays in completion of Train 6, which may cause a delay in the receipt of revenues projected therefrom or cause a loss of one or more future customers in the event of significant delays.  As a result, any significant construction delay, whatever the cause, could have a material adverse effect on our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects.. Hurricanes or other disasters could result in an interruption of our operations, a delay in the completion of the Liquefaction Project, higher construction costs and the deferral of the dates on which payments are due to SPL under the SPAs, all of which could adversely affect us.. In August and September of 2005, Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, respectively, damaged coastal and inland areas located in Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama, resulting in the temporary suspension of construction of the Sabine Pass LNG terminal.. 16. In September 2008, Hurricane Ike struck the Texas and Louisiana coasts, and the Sabine Pass LNG terminal experienced minor damage.  In August 2017, Hurricane Harvey struck the Texas and Louisiana coasts, and the Sabine Pass LNG terminal experienced a temporary suspension in construction and LNG loading operations.. Future storms and related storm activity and collateral effects, or other disasters such as explosions, fires, floods or accidents, could result in damage to, or interruption of operations at, the Sabine Pass LNG terminal or related infrastructure, as well as delays or cost increases in the construction and the development of the Liquefaction Project and related infrastructure.  Changes in the global climate may have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods and rising sea levels; if any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our coastal operations.. Failure to obtain and maintain approvals and permits from governmental and regulatory agencies with respect to the design, construction and operation of our facilities could impede operations and construction and could have a material adverse effect on us.. The design, construction and operation of interstate natural gas pipelines, LNG terminals, including the Liquefaction Project, and other facilities, and the import and export of LNG and the transportation of natural gas, are highly regulated activities.  Approvals of the FERC and DOE under Section 3 and Section 7 of the NGA, as well as several other material governmental and regulatory approvals and permits, including several under the CAA and the CWA, are required in order to construct and operate an LNG facility and an interstate natural gas pipeline and export LNG.  Although the FERC has issued orders under Section 3 of the NGA authorizing the siting, construction and operation of six Trains and related facilities and Section 7 of the NGA authorizing the construction and operation of the Creole Trail Pipeline, the FERC orders require us to comply with certain ongoing conditions and obtain certain additional approvals in conjunction with ongoing construction and operations of the Liquefaction Project and the operations of the Creole Trail Pipeline.  We will be required to obtain similar approvals and permits with respect to any expansion or modification of our liquefaction and pipeline facilities.  We cannot control the outcome of the FERC's or the DOE's review and approval processes.  Certain of these governmental permits, approvals and authorizations are or may be subject to rehearing requests, appeals and other challenges.. Authorizations obtained from the FERC, DOE and other federal and state regulatory agencies also contain ongoing conditions, and additional approval and permit requirements may be imposed.  We do not know whether or when any such approvals or permits can be obtained, or whether any existing or potential interventions or other actions by third parties will interfere with our ability to obtain and maintain such permits or approvals.  If we are unable to obtain and maintain the necessary approvals and permits, including as a result of untimely notices or filings, we may not be able to recover our investment in our projects.  There is no assurance that we will obtain and maintain these governmental permits, approvals and authorizations, or that we will be able to obtain them on a timely basis, and failure to obtain and maintain any of these permits, approvals or authorizations could have a material adverse effect on our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects.. We are entirely dependent on Cheniere, including employees of Cheniere and its subsidiaries, for key personnel, and the unavailability of skilled workers or failure to attract and retain qualified personnel could adversely affect us.  In addition, changes in our general partner's senior management or other key personnel could affect our business results.. As of January 31, 2018, Cheniere and its subsidiaries had 1,230 full-time employees, including 455 employees who directly supported the Sabine Pass LNG terminal operations.  We have contracted with subsidiaries of Cheniere to provide the personnel necessary for the operation, maintenance and management of the Sabine Pass LNG terminal, the Creole Trail Pipeline and construction of the Liquefaction Project.  We depend on Cheniere's subsidiaries hiring and retaining personnel sufficient to provide support for the Sabine Pass LNG terminal.  Cheniere competes with other liquefaction projects in the United States and globally, other energy companies and other employers to attract and retain qualified personnel with the technical skills and experience required to construct and operate liquefaction facilities and pipelines and to provide our customers with the highest quality service.  We also compete with any other project Cheniere is developing, including its liquefaction project at Corpus Christi, Texas, for the time and expertise of Cheniere's personnel.  Further, we and Cheniere face competition for these highly skilled employees in the immediate vicinity of the Sabine Pass LNG terminal and more generally from the Gulf Coast hydrocarbon processing and construction industries.. The executive officers of our general partner are officers and employees of Cheniere and its affiliates.  We do not maintain key person life insurance policies on any personnel, and our general partner does not have any employment contracts or other agreements with key personnel binding them to provide services for any particular term.  The loss of the services of any of these. 17. individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business.  In addition, our future success will depend in part on our general partner's ability to engage, and Cheniere's ability to attract and retain additional qualified personnel.. A shortage in the labor pool of skilled workers or other general inflationary pressures or changes in applicable laws and regulations could make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel and could require an increase in the wage and benefits packages that are offered, thereby increasing our operating costs.  Any increase in our operating costs could materially and adversely affect our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects.. We have numerous contractual and commercial relationships, and conflicts of interest, with Cheniere and its affiliates, including Cheniere Marketing.. We have agreements to compensate and to reimburse expenses of affiliates of Cheniere.  In addition, Cheniere Investments has entered into an amended and restated variable capacity rights agreement (the \"Amended and Restated VCRA\") with Cheniere Marketing, under which Cheniere Marketing will be able to derive economic benefits to the extent it assists Cheniere Investments in commercializing Cheniere Investments' access to capacity at the Sabine Pass LNG terminal through its agreement with SPL, which has a TUA with SPLNG.  In addition, Cheniere Marketing has entered into an SPA to purchase, at Cheniere Marketing's option, any LNG produced by SPL in excess of that required for other customers.  All of these agreements involve conflicts of interest between us, on the one hand, and Cheniere and its other affiliates, on the other hand.  In addition, Cheniere is currently developing and constructing a natural gas liquefaction facility near Corpus Christi, Texas and CCL has entered into nine long-term third-party SPAs for the sale of LNG from this natural gas liquefaction facility, and may continue to enter into commercial arrangements with respect to this liquefaction facility that might otherwise have been entered into with respect to Train 6.. We expect that there will be additional agreements or arrangements with Cheniere and its affiliates, including future transportation, interconnection and gas balancing agreements with one or more Cheniere-affiliated natural gas pipelines as well as other agreements and arrangements that cannot now be anticipated.  In those circumstances where additional contracts with Cheniere and its affiliates may be necessary or desirable, additional conflicts of interest will be involved.. We are dependent on Cheniere and its affiliates to provide services to us.  If Cheniere or its affiliates are unable or unwilling to perform according to the negotiated terms and timetable of their respective agreement for any reason or terminate their agreement, we would be required to engage a substitute service provider.  This could result in a significant interference with operations and increased costs.. We are dependent on Bechtel and other contractors for the successful completion of the Liquefaction Project.. Timely and cost-effective completion of the Liquefaction Project in compliance with agreed specifications is central to our business strategy and is highly dependent on the performance of Bechtel and our other contractors under their agreements.  The ability of Bechtel and our other contractors to perform successfully under their agreements is dependent on a number of factors, including their ability to:. • design and engineer each Train to operate in accordance with specifications;. • engage and retain third-party subcontractors and procure equipment and supplies;. • respond to difficulties such as equipment failure, delivery delays, schedule changes and failure to perform by subcontractors, some of which are beyond their control;. • attract, develop and retain skilled personnel, including engineers;. • post required construction bonds and comply with the terms thereof;. • manage the construction process generally, including coordinating with other contractors and regulatory agencies; and. • maintain their own financial condition, including adequate working capital.. Although some agreements may provide for liquidated damages if the contractor fails to perform in the manner required with respect to certain of its obligations, the events that trigger a requirement to pay liquidated damages may delay or impair the operation of the Liquefaction Project, and any liquidated damages that we receive may not be sufficient to cover the damages that we suffer as a result of any such delay or impairment.  The obligations of Bechtel and our other contractors to pay liquidated damages under their agreements are subject to caps on liability, as set forth therein.. 18. Furthermore, we may have disagreements with our contractors about different elements of the construction process, which could lead to the assertion of rights and remedies under their contracts and increase the cost of the Liquefaction Project or result in a contractor's unwillingness to perform further work on the Liquefaction Project.  If any contractor is unable or unwilling to perform according to the negotiated terms and timetable of its respective agreement for any reason or terminates its agreement, we would be required to engage a substitute contractor.  This would likely result in significant project delays and increased costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects.. We are relying on third-party engineers to estimate the future capacity ratings and performance capabilities of the Liquefaction Project, and these estimates may prove to be inaccurate.. We are relying on third parties, principally Bechtel, for the design and engineering services underlying our estimates of the future capacity ratings and performance capabilities of the Liquefaction Project.  If any Train, when actually constructed, fails to have the capacity ratings and performance capabilities that we intend, our estimates may not be accurate.  Failure of any of our Trains to achieve our intended capacity ratings and performance capabilities could prevent us from achieving the commercial start dates under our SPAs and could have a material adverse effect on our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects.. If third-party pipelines and other facilities interconnected to our pipelines and facilities are or become unavailable to transport natural gas, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects.. We depend upon third-party pipelines and other facilities that will provide gas delivery options to the Liquefaction Project and to and from the Creole Trail Pipeline.  If the construction of new or modified pipeline connections is not completed on schedule or any pipeline connection were to become unavailable for current or future volumes of natural gas due to repairs, damage to the facility, lack of capacity or any other reason, our ability to meet our SPA obligations and continue shipping natural gas from producing regions or to end markets could be restricted, thereby reducing our revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects.. We may not be able to purchase or receive physical delivery of sufficient natural gas to satisfy our delivery obligations under the SPAs, which could have a material adverse effect on us.. Under the SPAs with our customers, we are required to make available to them a specified amount of LNG at specified times.  However, we may not be able to purchase or receive physical delivery of sufficient quantities of natural gas to satisfy those obligations, which may provide affected SPA customers with the right to terminate their SPAs.  Our failure to purchase or receive physical delivery of sufficient quantities of natural gas could have a material adverse effect on our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects.. We are subject to significant operating hazards and uninsured risks, one or more of which may create significant liabilities and losses for us.. The construction and operation of the Sabine Pass LNG terminal and the Creole Trail Pipeline are, and will be, subject to the inherent risks associated with these types of operations, including explosions, pollution, release of toxic substances, fires, hurricanes and adverse weather conditions, and other hazards, each of which could result in significant delays in commencement or interruptions of operations and/or in damage to or destruction of our facilities or damage to persons and property.  In addition, our operations and the facilities and vessels of third parties on which our operations are dependent face possible risks associated with acts of aggression or terrorism.. We do not, nor do we intend to, maintain insurance against all of these risks and losses.  We may not be able to maintain desired or required insurance in the future at rates that we consider reasonable.  The occurrence of a significant event not fully insured or indemnified against could have a material adverse effect on our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects.. 19. Cyclical or other changes in the demand for and price of LNG and natural gas may adversely affect our LNG business and the performance of our customers and could have a material adverse effect on our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, liquidity and prospects.. Our LNG business and the development of domestic LNG facilities and projects generally is based on assumptions about the future availability and price of natural gas and LNG, and the prospects for international natural gas and LNG markets.  Natural gas and LNG prices have been, and are likely to continue to be, volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to one or more of the following factors:. • additions to competitive regasification capacity in North America, Europe, Asia and other markets, which could divert LNG from the Sabine Pass LNG terminal;. • competitive liquefaction capacity in North America;. • insufficient or oversupply of natural gas liquefaction or receiving capacity worldwide;. • insufficient LNG tanker capacity;. • weather conditions;. • reduced demand and lower prices for natural gas;. • increased natural gas production deliverable by pipelines, which could suppress demand for LNG;. • decreased oil and natural gas exploration activities, which may decrease the production of natural gas;. • cost improvements that allow competitors to offer LNG regasification services or provide natural gas liquefaction capabilities at reduced prices;. • changes in supplies of, and prices for, alternative energy sources such as coal, oil, nuclear, hydroelectric, wind and solar energy, which may reduce the demand for natural gas;. • changes in regulatory, tax or other governmental policies regarding imported or exported LNG, natural gas or alternative energy sources, which may reduce the demand for imported or exported LNG and/or natural gas;. • political conditions in natural gas producing regions;. • adverse relative demand for LNG compared to other markets, which may decrease LNG imports into or exports from North America; and. • cyclical trends in general business and economic conditions that cause changes in the demand for natural gas.. Adverse trends or developments affecting any of these factors could result in decreases in the price of LNG and/or natural gas, which could materially and adversely affect the performance of our customers, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, liquidity and prospects.. Failure of imported or exported LNG to be a competitive source of energy for international markets could adversely affect our customers and could materially and adversely affect our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects.. Operations of the Liquefaction Project will be dependent upon the ability of our SPA customers to deliver LNG supplies from the United States, which is primarily dependent upon LNG being a competitive source of energy internationally.  The success of our business plan is dependent, in part, on the extent to which LNG can, for significant periods and in significant volumes, be supplied from North America and delivered to international markets at a lower cost than the cost of alternative energy sources.  Through the use of improved exploration technologies, additional sources of natural gas may be discovered outside the United States, which could increase the available supply of natural gas outside the United States and could result in natural gas in those markets being available at a lower cost than LNG exported to those markets.. Operations at the Sabine Pass LNG terminal are dependent, in part, upon the ability of our TUA customers to import LNG supplies into the United States, which is primarily dependent upon LNG being a competitive source of energy in North America.  In North America, due mainly to a historically abundant supply of natural gas and discoveries of substantial quantities of unconventional, or shale, natural gas, imported LNG has not developed into a significant energy source.  The success of the regasification services component of our business plan is dependent, in part, on the extent to which LNG can, for significant periods. 20. and in significant volumes, be produced internationally and delivered to North America at a lower cost than the cost to produce some domestic supplies of natural gas, or other alternative energy sources.  Through the use of improved exploration technologies, additional sources of natural gas have recently been and may continue to be discovered in North America, which could further increase the available supply of natural gas and could result in natural gas being available at a lower cost than imported LNG.. Political instability in foreign countries that import or export natural gas, or strained relations between such countries and the United States, may also impede the willingness or ability of LNG purchasers or suppliers and merchants in such countries to import or export LNG from or to the United States.  Furthermore, some foreign purchasers or suppliers of LNG may have economic or other reasons to obtain their LNG from, or direct their LNG to, non-U.S. markets or from or to our competitors' liquefaction or regasification facilities in the United States.. In addition to natural gas, LNG also competes with other sources of energy, including coal, oil, nuclear, hydroelectric, wind and solar energy.  LNG from the Liquefaction Project also competes with other sources of LNG, including LNG that is priced to indices other than Henry Hub.  Some of these sources of energy may be available at a lower cost than LNG from the Liquefaction Project in certain markets.  The cost of LNG supplies from the United States, including the Liquefaction Project, may also be impacted by an increase in natural gas prices in the United States.. As a result of these and other factors, LNG may not be a competitive source of energy in the United States or internationally.  The failure of LNG to be a competitive supply alternative to local natural gas, oil and other alternative energy sources in markets accessible to our customers could adversely affect the ability of our customers to deliver LNG from the United States or to the United States on a commercial basis.  Any significant impediment to the ability to deliver LNG to or from the United States generally, or to the Sabine Pass LNG terminal or from the Liquefaction Project specifically, could have a material adverse effect on our customers and on our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects.. Various economic and political factors could negatively affect the development, construction and operation of LNG facilities, including the Liquefaction Project, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects.. Commercial development of an LNG facility takes a number of years, requires a substantial capital investment and may be delayed by factors such as:. • increased construction costs;. • economic downturns, increases in interest rates or other events that may affect the availability of sufficient financing for LNG projects on commercially reasonable terms;. • decreases in the price of LNG, which might decrease the expected returns relating to investments in LNG projects;. • the inability of project owners or operators to obtain governmental approvals to construct or operate LNG facilities;. • political unrest or local community resistance to the siting of LNG facilities due to safety, environmental or security concerns; and. • any significant explosion, spill or similar incident involving an LNG facility or LNG vessel.. There may be shortages of LNG vessels worldwide, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects.. The construction and delivery of LNG vessels require significant capital and long construction lead times, and the availability of the vessels could be delayed to the detriment of our business and our customers because of:. • an inadequate number of shipyards constructing LNG vessels and a backlog of orders at these shipyards;. • political or economic disturbances in the countries where the vessels are being constructed;. • changes in governmental regulations or maritime self-regulatory organizations;. • work stoppages or other labor disturbances at the shipyards;. • bankruptcy or other financial crisis of shipbuilders;. • quality or engineering problems;. 21. • weather interference or a catastrophic event, such as a major earthquake, tsunami or fire; and. • shortages of or delays in the receipt of necessary construction materials.. We may not be able to secure firm pipeline transportation capacity on economic terms that is sufficient to meet our feed gas transportation requirements, which could have a material adverse effect on us.. We have contracted for firm capacity for our natural gas feedstock transportation requirements for Trains 1 through 5 of the Liquefaction Project.  We cannot control the regulatory and permitting approvals or third parties' construction times.  If and when we need to replace one or more of our agreements with these interconnecting pipelines, we may not be able to do so on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which could impair our ability to fulfill our obligations under certain of our SPAs and could have a material adverse effect on our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects.. We face competition based upon the international market price for LNG.. The Liquefaction Project is subject to the risk of LNG price competition at times when we need to replace any existing SPA, whether due to natural expiration, default or otherwise, or enter into new SPAs with respect to Train 6.  Factors relating to competition may prevent us from entering into a new or replacement SPA on economically comparable terms as existing SPAs, or at all.  Such an event could have a material adverse effect on our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects.  Factors which may negatively affect potential demand for LNG from the Liquefaction Project are diverse and include, among others:. • increases in worldwide LNG production capacity and availability of LNG for market supply;. • increases in demand for LNG but at levels below those required to maintain current price equilibrium with respect to supply;. • increases in the cost to supply natural gas feedstock to the Liquefaction Project;. • decreases in the cost of competing sources of natural gas or alternate fuels such as coal, heavy fuel oil and diesel;. • decreases in the price of non-U.S. LNG, including decreases in price as a result of contracts indexed to lower oil prices;. • increases in capacity and utilization of nuclear power and related facilities; and. • displacement of LNG by pipeline natural gas or alternate fuels in locations where access to these energy sources is not currently available.. Terrorist attacks, including cyberterrorism, or military campaigns may adversely impact our business.. A terrorist, including a cyberterrorist, or military incident involving an LNG facility, our infrastructure or an LNG vessel may result in delays in, or cancellation of, construction of new LNG facilities, including one or more of the Trains, which would increase our costs and decrease our cash flows.  A terrorist incident may also result in temporary or permanent closure of existing LNG facilities, including the Sabine Pass LNG terminal or the Creole Trail Pipeline, which could increase our costs and decrease our cash flows, depending on the duration and timing of the closure.  Our operations could also become subject to increased governmental scrutiny that may result in additional security measures at a significant incremental cost to us.  In addition, the threat of terrorism and the impact of military campaigns may lead to continued volatility in prices for natural gas that could adversely affect our business and our customers, including their ability to satisfy their obligations to us under our commercial agreements.  Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism, including cyberterrorism, or war could also materially adversely affect our ability to raise capital.  The continuation of these developments may subject our construction and our operations to increased risks, as well as increased costs, and, depending on their ultimate magnitude, could have a material adverse effect on our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects.. Existing and future environmental and similar laws and governmental regulations could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating costs or construction costs and restrictions.. Our business is and will be subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations that regulate and restrict, among other things, discharges to air, land and water, with particular respect to the protection of the environment and natural resources; the handling, storage and disposal of hazardous materials, hazardous waste and petroleum products; and remediation associated with the release of hazardous substances.  Many of these laws and regulations, such as the CAA, the Oil Pollution Act, the CWA. 22. and the RCRA, and analogous state laws and regulations, restrict or prohibit the types, quantities and concentration of substances that can be released into the environment in connection with the construction and operation of our facilities, and require us to maintain permits and provide governmental authorities with access to our facilities for inspection and reports related to our compliance.  In addition, certain environmental laws and regulations authorize regulators having jurisdiction over the Sabine Pass LNG terminal to issue compliance orders, which may restrict or limit operations or increase compliance or operating costs.  Violation of these laws and regulations could lead to substantial liabilities, fines and penalties or to capital expenditures related to pollution control equipment that could have a material adverse effect on our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects.  Federal and state laws impose liability, without regard to fault or the lawfulness of the original conduct, for the release of certain types or quantities of hazardous substances into the environment.  As the owner and operator of our facilities, we could be liable for the costs of cleaning up hazardous substances released into the environment at or from our facilities and for resulting damage to natural resources.. In October 2015, the EPA promulgated a final rule to implement the Obama Administration's Clean Power Plan, which is designed to reduce GHG emissions from power plants in the United States.  In February 2016, the U.S. Supreme Court stayed the final rule, effectively suspending the duty to comply with the rule until certain legal challenges are resolved.  In March 2017, President Trump directed EPA via Executive Order to review and determine whether it is appropriate to revise or rescind the Clean Power Plan.  On October 10, 2017, EPA issued a proposal to repeal the Clean Power Plan after concluding the October 2015 final rule exceeds EPA's statutory authority under the CAA.  The October 2017 proposal does not include regulations to replace the Clean Power Plan and EPA stated in the October 2017 proposal that it has not determined whether it will issue replacement regulations to regulate GHG emissions from existing EGUs.  The Trump Administration announced in June 2017 that the United States would withdraw from the Paris Accord, an international agreement within the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change under which the Obama Administration committed the United States to reducing its economy-wide GHG emission by 26-28% below 2005 levels by 2025.  Other federal and state initiatives may be considered in the future to address GHG emissions through, for example, United States treaty commitments, direct regulation, a carbon emissions tax, or cap-and-trade programs.  Such initiatives, including a future replacement rule for the Clean Power Plan could affect the demand for or cost of natural gas, which we consume at our terminals, or could increase compliance costs for our operations.. Other future legislation and regulations, such as those relating to the transportation and security of LNG imported to or exported from the Sabine Pass LNG terminal could cause additional expenditures, restrictions and delays in our business and to our proposed construction, the extent of which cannot be predicted and which may require us to limit substantially, delay or cease operations in some circumstances.  Revised, reinterpreted or additional laws and regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating or construction costs and restrictions could have a material adverse effect on our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects.. The Creole Trail Pipeline and its FERC gas tariff are subject to FERC regulation.. The Creole Trail Pipeline is subject to regulation by the FERC under the NGA and the NGPA.  The FERC regulates the transportation of natural gas in interstate commerce, including the construction and operation of pipelines, the rates, terms and conditions of service and abandonment of facilities.  Under the NGA, the rates charged by CTPL must be just and reasonable, and CTPL is prohibited from unduly preferring or unreasonably discriminating against any person with respect to pipeline rates or terms and conditions of service.. In addition, as a natural gas market participant, should CTPL fail to comply with all applicable FERC-administered statutes, rules, regulations and orders, CTPL could be subject to substantial penalties and fines.  Under the EPAct, the FERC has civil penalty authority under the NGA and the NGPA to impose penalties for current violations of up to $1.3 million per day for each violation.. A major health and safety incident relating to our business could be costly in terms of potential liabilities and reputational damage.. Health and safety performance is critical to the success of all areas of our business.  Any failure in health and safety performance may result in personal harm or injury, penalties for non-compliance with relevant regulatory requirements or litigation, and a failure that results in a significant health and safety incident is likely to be costly in terms of potential liabilities.  Such a failure could generate public concern and have a corresponding impact on our reputation and our relationships with relevant regulatory agencies and local communities, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects.. 23. Pipeline safety integrity programs and repairs may impose significant costs and liabilities on us.. The PHMSA requires pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs to comprehensively evaluate certain areas along their pipelines and to take additional measures to protect pipeline segments located in \"high consequence areas\" where a leak or rupture could potentially do the most harm.  As an operator, CTPL is required to:. • perform ongoing assessments of pipeline integrity;. • identify and characterize applicable threats to pipeline segments that could impact a high consequence area;. • improve data collection, integration and analysis;. • repair and remediate the pipeline as necessary; and. • implement preventative and mitigating actions.. CTPL is required to maintain pipeline integrity testing programs that are intended to assess pipeline integrity.  Any repair, remediation, preventative or mitigating actions may require significant capital and operating expenditures.  Should CTPL fail to comply with the Federal Office of Pipeline Safety's rules and related regulations and orders, CTPL could be subject to significant penalties and fines.. Our business could be materially and adversely affected if we lose the right to situate the Creole Trail Pipeline on property owned by third parties.. We do not own the land on which the Creole Trail Pipeline is situated, and we are subject to the possibility of increased costs to retain necessary land use rights.  If we were to lose these rights or be required to relocate the Creole Trail Pipeline, our business could be materially and adversely affected.. Our lack of diversification could have an adverse effect on our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects.. Substantially all of our anticipated revenue in 2018 will be dependent upon one facility, the Sabine Pass LNG terminal located in southern Louisiana.  Due to our lack of asset and geographic diversification, an adverse development at the Sabine Pass LNG terminal, including the related pipeline, or in the LNG industry, would have a significantly greater impact on our financial condition and operating results than if we maintained more diverse assets and operating areas.. If we do not make acquisitions or implement capital expansion projects on economically acceptable terms, our future growth and our ability to increase distributions to our unitholders will be limited.. Our ability to grow depends on our ability to make accretive acquisitions or implement accretive capital expansion projects, such as the Liquefaction Project.  We may be unable to make accretive acquisitions or implement accretive capital expansion projects for any of the following reasons:. • if we are unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate acceptable purchase contracts with them;. • if we are unable to identify attractive capital expansion projects or negotiate acceptable engineering procurement and construction arrangements for them;. • if we are unable to obtain necessary governmental approvals;. • if we are unable to obtain financing for the acquisitions or capital expansion projects on economically acceptable terms, or at all;. • if we are unable to secure adequate customer commitments to use the acquired or expansion facilities; or. • if we are outbid by competitors.. If we are unable to make accretive acquisitions or implement accretive capital expansion projects, then our future growth and ability to increase distributions to our unitholders will be limited.. 24. We intend to pursue acquisitions of additional LNG terminals, natural gas pipelines and related assets in the future, either directly from Cheniere or from third parties.  However, Cheniere is not obligated to offer us any of these assets other than, in certain circumstances under an investors rights agreement with Blackstone CQP Holdco, its liquefaction project at Corpus Christi, Texas.  If Cheniere does offer us the opportunity to purchase assets, we may not be able to successfully negotiate a purchase and sale agreement and related agreements, we may not be able to obtain any required financing for such purchase and we may not be able to obtain any required governmental and third-party consents.  The decision whether or not to accept such offer, and to negotiate the terms of such offer, will be made by the conflicts committee of our general partner, which may decline the opportunity to accept such offer for a variety of reasons, including a determination that the acquisition of the assets at the proposed purchase price would not result in an increase, or a sufficient increase, in our adjusted operating surplus per unit within an appropriate timeframe.. If we make acquisitions, such acquisitions could adversely affect our business and ability to make distributions to our unitholders.. If we make any acquisitions, they will involve potential risks, including:. • an inability to integrate successfully the businesses that we acquire with our existing business;. • a decrease in our liquidity by using a significant portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity to finance the acquisition;. • the assumption of unknown liabilities;. • limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller;. • mistaken assumptions about the cash generated, or to be generated, by the business acquired or the overall costs of equity or debt;. • the diversion of management's and employees' attention from other business concerns; and. • unforeseen difficulties encountered in operating new business segments or in new geographic areas.. If we consummate any future acquisitions, our capitalization and operating results may change significantly, and our unitholders will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in determining the application of our future funds and other resources.  In addition, if we issue additional units in connection with future growth, our existing unitholders' interest in us will be diluted, and distributions to our unitholders may be reduced.. We may incur impairments to long-lived assets.. We test our long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable.  Significant negative industry or economic trends, reduced estimates of future cash flows for our business or disruptions to our business could lead to an impairment charge of our long-lived assets.  Our valuation methodology for assessing impairment requires management to make judgments and assumptions based on historical experience and to rely heavily on projections of future operating performance.  Projections of future operating results and cash flows may vary significantly from results.  In addition, if our analysis results in an impairment to our long-lived assets, we may be required to record a charge to earnings in our Consolidated Financial Statements during a period in which such impairment is determined to exist, which may negatively impact our operating results.. Risks Relating to Our Cash Distributions. We may not be successful in our efforts to maintain or increase our cash available for distribution to cover the distributions on our common units.. We historically paid the initial quarterly distribution of $0.425 on each of our common units and the related distribution on the general partner units, and did not pay any distributions on the subordinated units.  For the quarters ended September 30, 2017 and December 31, 2017, we paid a distribution of $0.44 and declared a distribution of $0.50, respectively, on each of our common and subordinated units and the related distribution on the general partner units.  For the quarter ended December 31, 2017 we also declared a related distribution to the holder of our incentive distribution rights (\"IDRs\").  As of December 31, 2017, we had 348.6 million common units outstanding.  The aggregate initial quarterly distribution on these common units and the related general partner units was approximately $99 million per year.  For the year ended December 31, 2017, we paid distributions of $294 million on these common units and the related general partner units including distributions to the holder of our subordinated units.. 25. The amount of cash that we can distribute on our common units principally will depend upon the amount of cash that we generate from our existing operations, which will be based on, among other things:. • performance by counterparties of their obligations under the SPAs;. • performance by SPL of its obligations under the SPAs;. • performance by counterparties of their obligations under the TUAs;. • performance by SPLNG of its obligations under the TUAs;. • performance by, and the level of cash receipts received from, Cheniere Marketing under the Amended and Restated VCRA; and. • the level of our operating costs, including payments to our general partner and its affiliates.. In addition, the actual amount of cash that we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors such as:. • the restrictions contained in our debt agreements and our debt service requirements, including our ability to pay distributions under our 2016 CQP Credit Facilities and the ability of SPL to pay distributions to us under its working capital facility and senior notes;. • the costs and capital requirements of acquisitions, if any;. • fluctuations in our working capital needs;. • our ability to borrow for working capital or other purposes; and. • the amount, if any, of cash reserves established by our general partner.. We may not be successful in our efforts to maintain or increase our cash available for distribution to cover the distributions on our units.  Any reductions in distributions to our unitholders because of a shortfall in cash flow or other events could result in a decrease of the quarterly distribution on our common units below the initial quarterly distribution.  Any portion of the initial quarterly distribution that is not distributed on our common units will accrue and be paid to the common unitholders in accordance with our partnership agreement, if at all.. We will need to refinance, extend or otherwise satisfy our substantial indebtedness, and principal amortization or other terms of our future indebtedness could limit our ability to pay or increase distributions to our unitholders.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $16.2 billion of total consolidated indebtedness (before debt discounts, debt premiums and unamortized debt issuance costs).  We anticipate incurring additional consolidated indebtedness in the future, including the issuance of additional notes by us or our subsidiaries, including SPL.  Any additional indebtedness incurred could be at higher interest rates and have different maturity dates and more restrictive covenants than our current outstanding indebtedness.  Approximately $1.1 billion of our indebtedness will mature in 2020, $2.0 billion will mature in 2021, $1.0 billion will mature in 2022, $11.3 billion will mature between 2023 and 2028 and $0.8 billion will mature in 2037.  We are not generally required to make principal payments on any of our long-term indebtedness prior to maturity other than our 2016 CQP Credit Facilities.  Our ability to refinance, extend or otherwise satisfy our indebtedness, and the principal amortization, interest rate and other terms on which we may be able to do so, will depend, among other things, on our then contracted or otherwise anticipated future cash flows available for debt service.  SPLNG's TUAs with Total and Chevron will expire in 2029 unless extended.  SPL's SPA with BG will expire in 2036 unless extended and SPL's SPAs with Gas Natural Fenosa and KOGAS will expire in 2037 unless extended.  Our ability to pay or increase distributions to our unitholders in future years could be limited by principal amortization, interest rate or other terms of our future indebtedness.  If we are unable to refinance, extend or otherwise satisfy our debt as it matures, that would have a material adverse effect on our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects.. 26. Our subsidiaries may be restricted under the terms of their indebtedness from making distributions to us under certain circumstances, which may limit our ability to pay or increase distributions to our unitholders and could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common units.. The agreements governing our indebtedness restrict payments that our subsidiaries can make to us in certain events and limit the indebtedness that our subsidiaries can incur.  For example, SPL is restricted from making distributions under the agreements governing its indebtedness generally until, among other requirements, deposits are made into debt service reserve accounts and a debt service coverage ratio of 1.25:1.00 is satisfied.. If our subsidiaries are unable to pay distributions to us or incur indebtedness as a result of the foregoing restrictions in agreements governing their indebtedness, we may be inhibited in our ability to pay or increase distributions to our unitholders.. Restrictions in agreements governing our subsidiaries' indebtedness may prevent our subsidiaries from engaging in certain beneficial transactions.. In addition to restrictions on the ability of SPL to make distributions or incur additional indebtedness, the agreements governing their indebtedness also contain various other covenants that may prevent them from engaging in beneficial transactions, including limitations on their ability to:. • make certain investments;. • purchase, redeem or retire equity interests;. • issue preferred stock;. • sell or transfer assets;. • incur liens;. • enter into transactions with affiliates;. • consolidate, merge, sell or lease all or substantially all of its assets; and. • enter into sale and leaseback transactions.. Management fees and cost reimbursements due to our general partner and its affiliates will reduce cash available to pay distributions to our unitholders.. We pay significant management fees to our general partner and its affiliates and reimburse them for expenses incurred on our behalf, which reduces our cash available for distribution to our unitholders.  See Note 12 - Related Party Transactions of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of these fees and expenses.  Our general partner and its affiliates will also be entitled to reimbursement for all other direct expenses that they incur on our behalf.  The payment of fees to our general partner and its affiliates and the reimbursement of expenses could adversely affect our ability to pay cash distributions to our unitholders.. The amount of cash that we have available for distributions to our unitholders will depend primarily on our cash flow and not solely on profitability.. The amount of cash that we will have available for distributions will depend primarily on our cash flow, including cash reserves and working capital or other borrowings, and not solely on profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items.  As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record losses, and we may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net income.  Any reduction in the amount of cash available for distributions could impact our ability to pay quarterly distributions to our unitholders.. We may not be able to maintain or increase the distributions on our common and subordinated units unless we are able to make accretive acquisitions or implement accretive capital expansion projects, which may require us to obtain one or more sources of funding.. We may not be able to make accretive acquisitions or implement accretive capital expansion projects, including our liquefaction facilities, that would result in sufficient cash flow to allow us to maintain or increase common and subordinated. 27. unitholder distributions.  To fund acquisitions or capital expansion projects, we will need to pursue a variety of sources of funding, including debt and/or equity financings.  Our ability to obtain these or other types of financing will depend, in part, on factors beyond our control, such as our ability to obtain commitments from users of the facilities to be acquired or constructed, the status of various debt and equity markets at the time financing is sought and such markets' view of our industry and prospects at such time.  Any restrictive lending conditions in the U.S. credit markets may make it more time consuming and expensive for us to obtain financing, if we can obtain such financing at all.  Accordingly, we may not be able to obtain financing for acquisitions or capital expansion projects on terms that are acceptable to us, if at all.. Risks Relating to an Investment in Us and Our Common Units. Our general partner and its affiliates have conflicts of interest and limited fiduciary duties, which may permit them to favor their own interests to the detriment of us and our unitholders.. Cheniere owns and, indirectly through Cheniere Holdings, controls our general partner, which has sole responsibility for conducting our business and managing our operations.  Some of our general partner's directors are also directors of Cheniere, and certain of our general partner's officers are officers of Cheniere.  Therefore, conflicts of interest may arise between Cheniere and its affiliates, including our general partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand.  In resolving these conflicts, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of us and our unitholders.  These conflicts include, among others, the following situations:. • neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires Cheniere to pursue a business strategy that favors us.  Cheniere's directors and officers have a fiduciary duty to make these decisions in favor of the owners of Cheniere, which may be contrary to our interests:. • our general partner controls the interpretation and enforcement of contractual obligations between us, on the one hand, and Cheniere, on the other hand, including provisions governing administrative services and acquisitions;. • our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as Cheniere and its affiliates, in resolving conflicts of interest, which has the effect of limiting its fiduciary duty to us and our unitholders;. • our general partner has limited its liability and reduced its fiduciary duties under the partnership agreement, while also restricting the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without these limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty;. • Cheniere is not limited in its ability to compete with us.  Please read \"Cheniere is not restricted from competing with us and is free to develop, operate and dispose of, and is currently developing, LNG facilities, pipelines and other assets without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to develop or acquire those assets\";. • our general partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, capital expenditures, borrowings, issuances of additional partnership securities, and the establishment, increase or decrease in the amounts of reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders;. • our general partner determines the amount and timing of any capital expenditures and whether a capital expenditure is a maintenance capital expenditure, which reduces operating surplus, or an expansion capital expenditure, which does not reduce operating surplus.  This determination can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders and the ability of the subordinated units to convert to common units;. • our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered on terms that are fair and reasonable to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf;. • our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations and, in some circumstances, is entitled to be indemnified by us;. • our general partner may exercise its limited right to call and purchase common units if it and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units; and. • our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us.. We expect that there will be additional agreements or arrangements with Cheniere and its affiliates, including future interconnection, natural gas balancing and storage agreements with one or more Cheniere-affiliated natural gas pipelines, services. 28. agreements, as well as other agreements and arrangements that cannot now be anticipated.  In those circumstances where additional contracts with Cheniere and its affiliates may be necessary or desirable, additional conflicts of interest will be involved.. In the event Cheniere favors its interests over our interests, we may have less available cash to make distributions on our units than we otherwise would have if Cheniere had favored our interests.. Cheniere is not restricted from competing with us and is free to develop, operate and dispose of, and is currently developing, LNG facilities, pipelines and other assets without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to develop or acquire those assets.. Cheniere and its affiliates are not prohibited from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us.  Cheniere may acquire, construct or dispose of its liquefaction project at Corpus Christi, Texas, its pipelines or any other assets without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase or construct any of those assets, other than, in certain circumstances under an investors rights agreement with Blackstone CQP Holdco, its liquefaction project at Corpus Christi, Texas.  In addition, under our partnership agreement, the doctrine of corporate opportunity, or any analogous doctrine, will not apply to Cheniere and its affiliates.  As a result, neither Cheniere nor any of its affiliates will have any obligation to present new business opportunities to us, they may take advantage of such opportunities themselves and they may enter into commercial arrangements with respect to the liquefaction project at Corpus Christi, Texas that might otherwise have been entered into with respect to Train 6.  Cheniere also has significantly greater resources and experience than we have, which may make it more difficult for us to compete with Cheniere and its affiliates with respect to commercial activities or acquisition candidates.. Our partnership agreement limits our general partner's fiduciary duties to our unitholders and restricts the remedies available to our unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty.. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that reduce the standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law.  For example, our partnership agreement:. • permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner.  This entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and it has no duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or any limited partner.  Examples include the exercise of its limited call right, the exercise of its rights to transfer or vote the units it owns, the exercise of its registration rights and its determination whether or not to consent to any merger or consolidation of the partnership or amendment to the partnership agreement;. • provides that our general partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as general partner, as long as it acted in good faith, meaning that it believed the decision was in the best interests of our partnership;. • generally provides that affiliated transactions and resolutions of conflicts of interest not approved by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner and not involving a vote of unitholders must be on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties or be \"fair and reasonable\" to us and that, in determining whether a transaction or resolution is \"fair and reasonable,\" our general partner may consider the totality of the relationships between the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly favorable or advantageous to us;. • provides that our general partner, its affiliates and their officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us or our limited partners for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our general partner or those other persons acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud, willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that such conduct was criminal; and. • provides that in resolving conflicts of interest, it will be presumed that in making its decision the conflicts committee or the general partner acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or us, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption.. By purchasing a common unit, a unitholder will become bound by the provisions of our partnership agreement, including the provisions described above.. 29. Holders of our common units have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our general partner or its directors, which could reduce the price at which our common units trade.. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, our unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management's decisions regarding our business.  Our unitholders will have no right to elect our general partner or its board of directors on an annual or other continuing basis.  The board of directors of our general partner is chosen entirely by affiliates of Cheniere.  As a result, the price at which the common units will trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a control premium in the trading price.. Even if our unitholders are dissatisfied, they cannot initially remove our general partner without its consent.. The vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of all outstanding common units and subordinated units (including any units owned by our general partner and its affiliates), voting together as a single class is required to remove our general partner.  An affiliate of Cheniere owns 48.6% of our outstanding common units and subordinated units, but it is contractually prohibited from voting our units that it holds in favor of the removal of our general partner.  If our general partner is removed without cause during the subordination period and units held by our general partner and its affiliates are not voted in favor of that removal, all remaining subordinated units will automatically be converted into common units and any existing arrearages on the common units will be extinguished.  A removal of our general partner under these circumstances would adversely affect the common units by prematurely eliminating their distribution and liquidation preference over the subordinated units, which would otherwise have continued until we had met certain distribution and performance tests.  Cause is narrowly defined in our partnership agreement to mean that a court of competent jurisdiction has entered a final, non-appealable judgment finding our general partner liable for actual fraud or willful misconduct in its capacity as our general partner.  Cause does not include most cases of poor management of the business, so the removal of the general partner because of the unitholders' dissatisfaction with our general partner's performance in managing our partnership will most likely result in the termination of the subordination period and conversion of all subordinated units to common units.. Control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent.. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of our unitholders.  Furthermore, our partnership agreement does not restrict the ability of the owners of our general partner from transferring all or a portion of their respective ownership interest in our general partner to a third party.  The new owners of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of our general partner with its own choices and thereby influence the decisions taken by the board of directors and officers.. Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders (other than our general partner and its affiliates) owning 20% or more of any class of our units.. Our partnership agreement restricts unitholders' voting rights by providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner and its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our general partner, cannot vote on any matter.  Our partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders' ability to influence the manner or direction of management.. Our partnership agreement prohibits a unitholder (other than our general partner and its affiliates) who acquires 15% or more of our limited partner units without the approval of our general partner from engaging in a business combination with us for three years unless certain approvals are obtained.  This provision could discourage a change of control that our unitholders may favor, which could negatively affect the price of our common units.. Our partnership agreement effectively adopts Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (\"DGCL\").  Section 203 of the DGCL as it applies to us prevents an interested unitholder defined as a person (other than our general partner and its affiliates) who owns 15% or more of our outstanding limited partner units from engaging in business combinations with us for three years following the time such person becomes an interested unitholder unless certain approvals are obtained.  Section 203 broadly defines \"business combination\" to encompass a wide variety of transactions with or caused by an interested unitholder, including mergers, asset sales and other transactions in which the interested unitholder receives a benefit on other than a pro rata basis with other unitholders.  This provision of our partnership agreement could have an anti-takeover effect. 30. with respect to transactions not approved in advance by our general partner, including discouraging takeover attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for our common units.. Our unitholders may not have limited liability if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business.. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner.  We are organized under Delaware law, and we conduct business in other states.  As a limited partner in a partnership organized under Delaware law, holders of our common units could be held liable for our obligations to the same extent as a general partner if a court determined that the right or the exercise of the right by our unitholders as a group to remove or replace our general partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or to take other action under our partnership agreement constituted participation in the \"control\" of our business.  In addition, limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in many jurisdictions.. Our unitholders may have liability to repay distributions wrongfully made.. Under certain circumstances, our unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully distributed to them.  Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, we may not make a distribution to our unitholders if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets.  Delaware law provides that, for a period of three years from the date of the impermissible distribution, partners who received such a distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the partnership for the distribution amount.  Liabilities to partners on account of their partner interests and liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted.. We may issue additional units without approval of our unitholders, which would dilute their ownership interest in us.. At any time during the subordination period, with the approval of the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner, we may issue an unlimited number of limited partner interests of any type without the approval of our unitholders.  After the subordination period, we may issue an unlimited number of limited partner interests of any type without limitation of any kind.  The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects:. • our unitholders' proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease;. • the amount of cash available per unit to pay distributions may decrease;. • because a lower percentage of total outstanding units will be subordinated units, the risk will increase that a shortfall in the payment of the initial quarterly distributions will be borne by our common unitholders;. • the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase;. • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and. • the market price of the common units may decline.. The market price of our common units has fluctuated significantly in the past and is likely to fluctuate in the future.  Our unitholders could lose all or part of their investment.. The market price of our common units has historically experienced and may continue to experience volatility.  For example, during the three-year period ended December 31, 2017, the market price of our common units ranged between $19.22 and $34.55.  Such fluctuations may continue as a result of a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including:. • our quarterly distributions;. • domestic and worldwide supply of and demand for natural gas and corresponding fluctuations in the price of natural gas;. • fluctuations in our quarterly or annual financial results or those of other companies in our industry;. • issuance of additional equity securities which causes further dilution to our unitholders;. • sales of a high volume of units of our common units by our unitholders;. 31. • operating and unit price performance of companies that investors deem comparable to us;. • events affecting other companies that the market deems comparable to us;. • changes in government regulation or proposals applicable to us;. • actual or potential non-performance by any customer or a counterparty under any agreement;. • announcements made by us or our competitors of significant contracts;. • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles;. • general conditions in the industries in which we operate;. • general economic conditions;. • the failure of securities analysts to cover our common units or changes in financial or other estimates by analysts; and. • other factors described in these \"Risk Factors.\". In addition, the United States securities markets have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations.  These fluctuations have often been unrelated to the operating performance of companies in these markets.  Market fluctuations and broad market, economic and industry factors may negatively affect the price of our common units, regardless of our operating performance.  If we were to be the object of securities class litigation as a result of volatility in our common unit price or for other reasons, it could result in substantial diversion of our management's attention and resources, which could negatively affect our financial results.. Affiliates of our general partner or affiliates of Blackstone may sell limited partner units, which sales could have an adverse impact on the trading price of our common units.. Sales by us or any of our affiliated unitholders or affiliates of Blackstone of a substantial number of our common units or our subordinated units, or the perception that such sales might occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common units or could impair our ability to obtain capital through an offering of equity securities.  Cheniere Holdings owns 104,488,671 common units and 135,383,831 subordinated units.  All of the subordinated units will convert into common units at the end of the subordination period and may convert earlier.  We filed a registration statement for the resale of 202,450,687 common units owned by Blackstone and its affiliates.  Any sales of these units could have an adverse impact on the price of our common units.. Risks Relating to Tax Matters. Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes.  If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, then our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced.. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes.  Despite the fact that we are a limited partnership under Delaware law, we will be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes unless we satisfy a \"qualifying income\" requirement.  Based upon our current operations, we believe we satisfy the qualifying income requirement.  Failing to meet the qualifying income requirement or a change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity.. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate and would likely pay state and local income taxes at varying rates.  Distributions to our unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate dividends, and no income, gains, losses or deductions would flow through to our unitholders.  Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, the cash available for distributions to our unitholders would be substantially reduced.  Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units.. Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal income tax purposes, then the initial quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts will be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us.. 32. If we were subjected to a material amount of additional entity-level taxation by individual states, it would reduce our cash available for distribution.. Changes in current state law may subject us to additional entity-level taxation by individual states.  Because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states have been evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation.  Imposition of any such taxes may substantially reduce the cash available for distribution to our unitholders and, therefore, negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units.  Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to additional amounts of entity-level taxation for state or local income tax purposes, the initial quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us.. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our common units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis.. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time.  For example, from time to time the U.S. President and members of the U.S. Congress propose and consider substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that would affect publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our common units.  Further, final Treasury Regulations under Section 7704(d)(1)(E) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, recently published in the Federal Register interpret the scope of qualifying income requirements for publicly traded partnerships by providing industry-specific guidance.  We do not believe the final Treasury Regulations affect our ability to be treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes.. In addition, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"TCJA\") enacted December 22, 2017, makes significant changes to the federal income tax rules applicable to both individuals and entities, including changes to the tax rate on an individual or other non-corporate unitholder's allocable share of certain income from a publicly traded partnership.  The TCJA is complex and lacks administrative guidance, thus, the impact of certain aspects of its provisions on us or an investment in our common units is currently unclear.  Unitholders should consult their tax advisor regarding the TCJA and its effect on an investment in our common units.. Any changes to the U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof (including administrative guidance relating to the TCJA) may or may not be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible for us to meet the exception to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes or otherwise adversely affect us.  We are unable to predict whether any changes, or other proposals, will ultimately be enacted.  Any such changes or interpretations thereof could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units.. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our common units each month based upon the ownership of our common units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular common unit is transferred.. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our common units each month based upon the ownership of our common units on the first business day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred.  Although final Treasury Regulations allow publicly traded partnerships to use a similar monthly simplifying convention to allocate tax items among transferor and transferee unitholders, such tax items must be prorated on a daily basis and these regulations do not specifically authorize all aspects of the proration method we have adopted.  If the IRS were to successfully challenge this method or new Treasury Regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.. A successful IRS contest of the federal income tax positions that we take, may adversely impact the market for our common units, and the costs of any contest will be borne by our unitholders and our general partner.. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions that we take, even positions taken with advice of counsel.  It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions that we take.  A court may not agree with some or all of the positions that we take.  Any contest with the IRS may adversely impact the taxable income reported to our unitholders and the income taxes they are required to pay.  As a result, any such contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which our common units trade.  In addition, the costs of any contest with the IRS, principally legal, accounting and related fees, will result in a reduction in cash available for distribution to our unitholders and our general partner and thus will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner.. 33. If the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, it (and some states) may assess and collect any taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) resulting from such audit adjustment directly from us, in which case we may either pay the taxes directly to the IRS or elect to have our unitholders and former unitholders take such audit adjustment into account and pay any resulting taxes.  If we bear such payment our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially reduced.. Pursuant to the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, if the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns, it (and some states) may assess and collect any taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) resulting from such audit adjustment directly from us.  To the extent possible under the new rules, our general partner may either pay the taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) directly to the IRS or, if we are eligible, elect to issue a revised Schedule K-1 to each unitholder with respect to an audited and adjusted return.  Although our general partner may elect to have our unitholders and former unitholders take such audit adjustment into account and pay any resulting taxes (including applicable penalties or interest) in accordance with their interests in us during the tax year under audit, there can be no assurance that such election will be practical, permissible or effective in all circumstances.  As a result, our current unitholders may bear some or all of the tax liability resulting from such audit adjustment, even if such unitholders did not own common units in us during the tax year under audit.  If, as a result of any such audit adjustment, we are required to make payments of taxes, penalties and interest, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially reduced.. Our unitholders may be required to pay taxes on their share of our taxable income even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us.. Because our unitholders will be treated as partners to whom we will allocate taxable income, which could be different in amount from the cash that we distribute, our unitholders will be required to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of our taxable income even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us.  Our unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability which results from their share of our taxable income.. We intend to allocate items of income, gain, loss and deduction among the holders of our common units and subordinated units on or after the date that the subordination period ends to ensure that common units issued in exchange for our subordinated units have the same economic and federal income tax characteristics as our other common units.  Any such allocation of items of our income or gain to unitholders, which may include allocations to holders of our common units, would not be accompanied by a distribution of cash to such unitholders.  In addition, any such allocation of items of deduction or loss to specific unitholders (for example, to the holder of the subordinated units) would effectively reduce the amount of items of deduction or loss that will be allocated to other unitholders.. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be different than expected.. If our unitholders sell any of their common units, they will recognize gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and their tax basis in those common units.  Because distributions in excess of the unitholders' allocable share of our net taxable income decrease the unitholders' tax basis in their common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the units sold will, in effect, become taxable income to the unitholder if they sell such units at a price greater than their tax basis in those units, even if the price received is less than their original cost.  A substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be ordinary income due to the potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture.  In addition, because the amount realized may include a unitholder's share of our nonrecourse liabilities, a unitholder that sells common units may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash received from the sale.. Unitholders may be subject to limitations on their ability to deduct interest expense incurred by us.. In general, we are entitled to a deduction for interest paid or accrued on indebtedness properly allocable to our trade or business during our taxable year.  However, under the TCJA, for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, our deduction for \"business interest\" is limited to the sum of our business interest income plus 30% of our \"adjusted taxable income.\" For the purposes of this limitation, our adjusted taxable income is computed without regard to any business interest expense or business interest income, and in the case of taxable years beginning before January 1, 2022, any deduction allowable for depreciation, amortization, or depletion.  Any interest disallowed may be carried forward and deducted in future years by the unitholder from. 34. his share of our \"excess taxable income,\" which is generally equal to the excess of 30% of our adjusted taxable income over the amount of our deduction for business interest for such future taxable year, subject to certain restrictions.. Tax-exempt entities face unique tax issues from owning common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them.. Investments in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), raises issues unique to them.  For example, virtually all of our income allocated to unitholders who are organizations exempt from federal income tax, including individual retirement accounts and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them.  Further, with respect to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, a tax-exempt entity with more than one unrelated trade or business (including by attribution from investment in a partnership such as ours that is engaged in one or more unrelated trade or business) is required to compute the unrelated business taxable income of such tax-exempt entity separately with respect to each such trade or business (including for purposes of determining any net operating loss deduction).  As a result, for years beginning after December 31, 2017, it may not be possible for tax-exempt entities to utilize losses from an investment in our partnership to offset unrelated business taxable income from another unrelated trade or business and vice versa.  Tax-exempt entities should consult a tax advisor before investing in our common units.. Non-U.S. unitholders will be subject to U.S. taxes and withholding with respect to their income and gain from owning our common units.. Non-U.S. unitholders are generally taxed and subject to income tax filing requirements by the United States on income effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business (\"effectively connected income\").  A unitholder's share of our income, gain, loss and deduction, and any gain from the sale or disposition of our common units will generally be considered to be \"effectively connected\" with a U.S. trade or business and subject to U.S. federal income tax.  Additionally, distributions to a non-U.S. unitholder will be subject to withholding at the highest applicable effective tax rate.. The TCJA imposes a withholding obligation of 10% of the amount realized upon a non-U.S. unitholder's sale or disposition of common units.  The IRS has temporarily suspended the application of the withholding requirements on sales of publicly traded interests, including our common units, pending promulgation of regulations or other guidance.  It is not clear if or when such regulations or other guidance will be issued.  Non-U.S. unitholders should consult a tax advisor before investing in our common units.. We will treat each holder of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units held.  The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of our common units.. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units, we adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform with all aspects of applicable Treasury Regulations.. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders.  It also could affect the timing of those tax benefits or the amount of gain from the sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to a unitholder's tax returns.. Our unitholders will likely be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements as a result of an investment in our common units.. In addition to federal income taxes, our unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local income taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property, even if the unitholder does not live in any of those jurisdictions.  Our unitholders may be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions.  Furthermore, our unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements.  As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own property or conduct business in additional states or foreign countries that impose a personal tax or an entity level tax.  Unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements.  It is the responsibility of our unitholders to file all United States federal, state and local tax returns.. 35. We have adopted certain valuation methodologies in determining a unitholder's allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction.  The IRS may challenge these methodologies or the resulting allocations, and such a challenge could adversely affect the value of our common units.. In determining the items of income, gain, loss and deduction allocable to our unitholders, we must routinely determine the fair market value of our assets.  Although we may from time to time consult with professional appraisers regarding valuation matters, we make many fair market value estimates ourselves using a methodology based on the market value of our common units as a means to determine the fair market value of our assets.  The IRS may challenge these valuation methods and the resulting allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction.. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the timing or amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders.  It also could affect the amount of gain from our unitholders' sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders' tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions.. A unitholder whose common units are the subject of a securities loan (e.g., a loan to a \"short seller\" to cover a short sale of common units) may be considered as having disposed of those common units.  If so, the unitholder would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition.. Because there are no specific rules governing the U.S. federal income tax consequence of loaning a partnership interest, a unitholder whose common units are the subject of a securities loan may be considered as having disposed of the loaned common units, the unitholder may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition.  Moreover, during the period of the loan, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those common units may not be reportable by the unitholder, and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those common units could be fully taxable as ordinary income.  Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a securities loan are urged to consult with their tax advisor to determine whether it is advisable to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing and loaning their common units."
