[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The following are some of the important factors that could affect our financial performance or could cause actual results to differ materially from estimates or expectations contained in our forward-looking statements.  We may encounter risks in addition to those described below.  Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us, or that we currently deem to be immaterial, may also impair or adversely affect our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, liquidity and prospects.. The risk factors in this report are grouped into the following categories:. • Risks Relating to Our Financial Matters;. • Risks Relating to Our LNG Terminal Operations and Commercialization;. • Risks Relating to Our LNG Business in General; and. • Risks Relating to Our Business in General.. Risks Relating to Our Financial Matters. Our existing level of cash resources and significant debt could cause us to have inadequate liquidity and could materially and adversely affect our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $722 million of cash and cash equivalents, $1.9 billion of current restricted cash, $11 million of non-current restricted cash and $26.1 billion of total debt outstanding on a consolidated basis (before debt discounts, debt premiums and unamortized debt issuance costs), excluding $914 million aggregate outstanding letters of credit.  We incur, and will incur, significant interest expense relating to the assets at the Sabine Pass and Corpus Christi LNG terminals, and we anticipate needing to incur additional debt to finance the construction of Train 6 of the SPL Project and Train 3 of the CCL Project.  Our ability to fund our capital expenditures and refinance our indebtedness will depend on our ability to access additional project financing as well as the debt and equity capital markets.  A variety of factors beyond our control could impact the availability or cost of capital, including domestic or international economic conditions, increases in key benchmark interest rates and/or credit spreads, the adoption of new or amended banking or capital market laws or regulations and the repricing of market risks and volatility in capital and financial markets.  Our financing costs could increase or future borrowings or equity offerings may be unavailable to us or unsuccessful, which could cause us to be unable to pay or refinance our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs.  We also rely on borrowings under our credit facilities to fund our capital expenditures.  If any of the lenders in the syndicates backing these facilities was unable to perform on its commitments, we may need to seek replacement financing, which may not be available as needed, or may be available in more limited amounts or on more expensive or otherwise unfavorable terms.. 17. We have not been profitable historically.  We may not achieve profitability or generate positive operating cash flow in the future.. We had net losses attributable to common stockholders of $393 million, $610 million and $975 million for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.  In the future, we may incur operating losses and experience negative operating cash flow.  We may not be able to reduce costs, increase revenues or reduce our debt service obligations sufficiently to maintain our cash resources, which could cause us to have inadequate liquidity to continue our business.. We will continue to incur significant capital and operating expenditures while we develop and construct the SPL Project and the CCL Project.  Any delays beyond the expected development period for our Trains could cause, and could increase the level of, our operating losses and negative operating cash flows.  Our future liquidity may also be affected by the timing of construction financing availability in relation to the incurrence of construction costs and other outflows and by the timing of receipt of cash flows under SPAs in relation to the incurrence of project and operating expenses.  Moreover, many factors (including factors beyond our control) could result in a disparity between liquidity sources and cash needs, including factors such as construction delays and breaches of agreements.  Our ability to generate any significant positive operating cash flow and achieve profitability in the future is dependent on our ability to successfully and timely complete and operate the applicable Train.. We may sell equity or equity-related securities or assets, including equity interests in Cheniere Partners or Cheniere Holdings.  Such sales could dilute our stockholders' proportionate indirect interests in our assets, business operations and proposed liquefaction and other projects of Cheniere Partners or other subsidiaries, and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. We have pursued and are pursuing a number of alternatives in order to finance the construction of Train 6 of the SPL Project and Train 3 of the CCL Project, including potential issuances and sales of additional equity or equity-related securities by us, Cheniere Partners, or Cheniere Holdings.  Such sales, in one or more transactions, could dilute our stockholders' proportionate indirect interests in our assets, business operations and proposed projects of Cheniere Partners, including the SPL Project, or in other subsidiaries or projects, including the CCL Project.  In addition, such sales, or the anticipation of such sales, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. Our stockholders may experience dilution upon the conversion of our convertible notes.. In November 2014, we issued an aggregate principal amount of $1.0 billion Convertible Unsecured Notes due 2021 (the \"2021 Cheniere Convertible Unsecured Notes\") to RRJ Capital II Ltd, Baytree Investments (Mauritius) Pte Ltd and Seatown Lionfish Pte. Ltd.  In March 2015, we issued $625.0 million aggregate principal amount of 4.25% Convertible Senior Notes due 2045 (the \"2045 Cheniere Convertible Senior Notes\") to certain investors through a registered direct offering.  In May 2015, CCH HoldCo II issued $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 11% Convertible Senior Secured Notes due 2025 (the \"2025 CCH HoldCo II Convertible Senior Notes\" and together with the 2021 Cheniere Convertible Unsecured Notes and the 2045 Cheniere Convertible Senior Notes, the \"Convertible Notes\") to EIG Management Company, LLC.  We have the option to satisfy the 2021 Cheniere Convertible Unsecured Notes and the 2045 Cheniere Convertible Senior Notes conversion obligations with cash, common stock or a combination thereof.  The 2025 CCH HoldCo II Convertible Senior Notes conversion obligations must be satisfied with common stock.  The 2021 Cheniere Convertible Unsecured Notes are convertible at an initial conversion price of $93.64.  Prior to December 15, 2044, the 2045 Cheniere Convertible Senior Notes will be convertible upon the occurrence of certain conditions, and on and after such date they will become freely convertible.  The 2045 Cheniere Convertible Senior Notes will become convertible into the common stock of Cheniere at an initial conversion price of $138.38 per share.  Provided the total market capitalization of Cheniere at that time is not less than $10.0 billion, the 2025 CCH HoldCo II Convertible Senior Notes will be convertible at CCH HoldCo II's option on or after the later of (1) 58 months from May 1, 2015 and (2) the substantial completion of Train 2 of the CCL Project (the \"Eligible Conversion Date\").  The conversion price for 2025 CCH HoldCo II Convertible Senior Notes converted at CCH HoldCo II's option is the lower of (1) a 10% discount to the average of the daily volume-weighted average price (\"VWAP\") of our common stock for the 90 trading day period prior to the date on which notice of conversion is provided and (2) a 10% discount to the closing price of our common stock on the trading day preceding the date on which notice of conversion is provided.  At the option of the holders, the 2025 CCH HoldCo II Convertible Senior Notes are convertible on or after the six-month anniversary of the Eligible Conversion Date, provided the total market capitalization of Cheniere at that time is not less than $10.0 billion, at a conversion price equal to the average of the daily VWAP of our common stock for the 90 trading day period prior to the date on which notice of conversion is provided.  The conversion of some or all of the Convertible Notes into shares of our common stock will dilute the ownership percentages and voting power of our existing stockholders.  Based on the initial conversion price, if we elect to satisfy the entire conversion obligations of the 2021 Cheniere Convertible Unsecured Notes and the 2045 Cheniere Convertible Senior Notes with common stock, an aggregate of approximately 19.1 million shares of our common stock would be. 18. issued upon the conversion, assuming the notes are converted at maturity and all interest on the notes is paid in kind for the 2021 Cheniere Convertible Unsecured Notes.  Because the conversion rate for the 2025 CCH HoldCo II Convertible Senior Notes will depend on the price of our common stock at the time of conversion, we cannot meaningfully estimate the number of shares of our common stock, if any, that would be issued upon the conversion of such notes; however, under these convertible notes, a maximum of 47,108,466 shares of our common stock (subject to adjustment in the event of a stock split) may be issued in the aggregate upon the conversion of all of the 2025 CCH HoldCo II Convertible Senior Notes.  Any sales in the public market of the shares issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Notes could adversely affect the prevailing market prices of our common stock.  In addition, the existence of the Convertible Notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the Convertible Notes could be used to satisfy short positions, or the anticipated conversion of the Convertible Notes into shares of our common stock could depress the price of our common stock.. Our ability to generate cash is substantially dependent upon the performance by customers under long-term contracts that we have entered into, and we could be materially and adversely affected if any customer fails to perform its contractual obligations for any reason.. Our future results and liquidity are substantially dependent upon performance by Chevron and Total, each of which has entered into a TUA with SPLNG and agreed to pay SPLNG approximately $125 million annually; on the performance, upon satisfaction of the conditions precedent to payment thereunder, by six third-party customers that have entered into SPAs with SPL and agreed to pay SPL an aggregate of $2.9 billion annually in fixed fees; and upon satisfaction of the conditions precedent to payment thereunder, by six third-party customers that have entered into SPAs with CCL for Trains 1 and 2 and agreed to pay an aggregate of $1.4 billion annually in fixed fees.  We are dependent on each customer's continued willingness and ability to perform its obligations under its SPA.  We are exposed to the credit risk of any guarantor of these customers' obligations under their respective TUA or SPA in the event that we must seek recourse under a guaranty.  If any customer fails to perform its obligations under its TUA or SPA, our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects could be materially and adversely affected, even if we were ultimately successful in seeking damages from that customer or its guarantor for a breach of the TUA or SPA.. Each of our customer contracts is subject to termination under certain circumstances.. Each of the SPAs contains various termination rights allowing our customers to terminate their SPAs, including, without limitation: (1) upon the occurrence of certain events of force majeure; (2) if we fail to make available specified scheduled cargo quantities; and (3) delays in the commencement of commercial operations.  SPL or CCL, as applicable, may not be able to replace these SPAs on desirable terms, or at all, if they are terminated.. Each of SPLNG's long-term TUAs contains various termination rights.  For example, each customer may terminate its TUA if the Sabine Pass LNG terminal experiences a force majeure delay for longer than 18 months, fails to redeliver a specified amount of natural gas in accordance with the customer's redelivery nominations or fails to accept and unload a specified number of the customer's proposed LNG cargoes.  SPLNG may not be able to replace these TUAs on desirable terms, or at all, if they are terminated.. Our subsidiaries may be restricted under the terms of their indebtedness from making distributions under certain circumstances, which may limit Cheniere Partners' ability to pay or increase distributions to us or inhibit our access to cash flows from the CCL Project and could materially and adversely affect us.. The agreements governing our subsidiaries' indebtedness restrict payments that our subsidiaries can make to Cheniere Partners or us in certain events and limit the indebtedness that our subsidiaries can incur.  For example, SPL is restricted from making distributions under agreements governing its indebtedness generally until, among other requirements, deposits are made into debt service reserve accounts and a debt service coverage ratio of 1.25:1.00 is satisfied.. CCH is restricted from making distributions under agreements governing its indebtedness generally until, among other requirements, the completion of the construction of Trains 1 and 2 of the CCL Project, funding of a debt service reserve account equal to six months of debt service and achieving a historical debt service coverage ratio and fixed projected debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.25:1.00.. 19. CCH HoldCo II is restricted from making distributions to Cheniere under agreements governing its indebtedness generally until, among other requirements, Trains 1 and 2 of the CCL Project are in commercial operation and a historical debt service coverage ratio and a projected fixed debt services coverage ratio of 1.20:1.00 are achieved.. Our subsidiaries' inability to pay distributions to Cheniere Partners or us to incur additional indebtedness as a result of the foregoing restrictions in the agreements governing their indebtedness may inhibit Cheniere Partners' ability to pay or increase distributions to us and its other unitholders or inhibit our access to cash flows from the CCL Project, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects.. Restrictions in agreements governing us and our subsidiaries' indebtedness may prevent us and our subsidiaries from engaging in certain beneficial transactions.. In addition to restrictions on the ability of us, Cheniere Partners, SPL, CCH and CCH HoldCo II to make distributions or incur additional indebtedness, the agreements governing our indebtedness also contain various other covenants that may prevent us from engaging in beneficial transactions, including limitations on our ability to:. • make certain investments;. • purchase, redeem or retire equity interests;. • issue preferred stock;. • sell or transfer assets;. • incur liens;. • enter into transactions with affiliates;. • consolidate, merge, sell or lease all or substantially all of our assets; and. • enter into sale and leaseback transactions.. Our use of hedging arrangements may adversely affect our future operating results or liquidity.. To reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the price, volume and timing risk associated with the purchase of natural gas, we use futures, swaps and option contracts traded or cleared on the Intercontinental Exchange and the New York Mercantile Exchange or over-the-counter options and swaps with other natural gas merchants and financial institutions.  Hedging arrangements would expose us to risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including when:. • expected supply is less than the amount hedged;. • the counterparty to the hedging contract defaults on its contractual obligations; or. • there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the hedging agreement and actual prices received.. The use of derivatives also may require the posting of cash collateral with counterparties, which can impact working capital when commodity prices change.. The swaps regulatory and other provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and the rules adopted thereunder and other regulations, including EMIR and REMIT, could adversely affect our ability to hedge risks associated with our business and our operating results and cash flows.. The provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and the rules adopted and to be adopted by the CFTC, the SEC and other federal regulators establishing federal regulation of the over-the-counter (\"OTC\") derivatives market and entities like us that participate in that market may adversely affect our ability to manage certain of our risks on a cost effective basis.  Such laws and regulations may also adversely affect our ability to execute our strategies with respect to hedging our exposure to variability in expected future cash flows attributable to the future sale of our LNG inventory and to price risk attributable to future purchases of natural gas to be utilized as fuel to operate our LNG terminals and to secure natural gas feedstock for our liquefaction facilities.. The CFTC has re-proposed position limits rules that would modify and expand the applicability of position limits on the amounts of certain speculative futures contracts, as well as economically equivalent options, futures and swaps for or linked to. 20. certain physical commodities, including Henry Hub natural gas, that market participants may hold, subject to limited exemptions for certain bona fide hedging positions and other types of transactions.  The CFTC also has adopted final rules regarding aggregation of positions that apply to futures on agricultural commodities, under which a party that controls the trading for the account of, or owns 10% or more of the equity interests in, another party will have to aggregate the positions in all such controlled accounts and of all such controlled or owned parties with their own positions for purposes of determining compliance with position limits rules unless an exemption applies.  To the extent the revised CFTC position limits proposal becomes final, our ability to execute our hedging strategies described above could be limited.  It is uncertain at this time whether, when and in what form the CFTC's proposed new position limits rules may become final and effective.. Under the Dodd-Frank Act and the rules adopted thereunder, we may be required to clear through a derivatives clearing organization any swaps into which we enter that fall within a class of swaps designated by the CFTC for mandatory clearing and we could have to execute trades in such swaps on certain trading platforms or exchanges.  The CFTC has designated certain interest rate swaps and index credit default swaps for mandatory clearing, but has not yet proposed rules designating any physical commodity swaps, for mandatory clearing or mandatory exchange trading.  Although we expect to qualify for the end-user exception from the mandatory clearing and trade execution requirements for our swaps entered into to hedge our commercial risks, if we fail to qualify for that exception as to any swap we enter into and have to clear that swap through a derivatives clearing organization, we could be required to post margin with respect to such swap, our cost of entering into and maintaining such swap could increase and we would not enjoy the same flexibility with the cleared swaps that we enjoy with the uncleared OTC swaps we enter into.  Moreover, the application of the mandatory clearing and trade execution requirements to other market participants, such as swap dealers, may change the market cost and general availability in the market of swaps of the type we enter into to hedge our commercial risks and, thus, the cost and availability of the swaps that we use for hedging.. As required by the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFTC and federal banking regulators have adopted rules to require certain market participants to collect and post initial and/or variation margin with respect to uncleared swaps from their counterparties that are financial end users and certain registered swap dealers and major swap participants.  Although we believe we will not be required to post margin with respect to any uncleared swaps we enter into in the future, were we required to post margin as to our uncleared swaps in the future, our cost of entering into and maintaining swaps would be increased.  Our counterparties that are subject to the regulations imposing the Basel III capital requirements on them may increase the cost to us of entering into swaps with them or, although not required to collect margin from us under the margin rules, contractually require us to post collateral with them in connection with such swaps in order to offset their increased capital costs or to reduce their capital costs to maintain those swaps on their balance sheets.. The Dodd-Frank Act also imposes other regulatory requirements on swaps market participants, including end users of swaps, such as regulations relating to swap documentation, reporting and recordkeeping, and certain business conduct rules applicable to swap dealers and major swap participants.  Together with the Basel III capital requirements on certain swaps market participants, the regulatory requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act and the rules thereunder relating to swaps and derivatives market participants could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including through requirements to post margin or collateral), materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against certain risks that we encounter and reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts and to execute our hedging strategies.  If, as a result of the swaps regulatory regime discussed above, we were to reduce our use of swaps to hedge our risks, such as commodity price risks that we encounter in our operations, our operating results and cash flows may become more volatile and could be otherwise adversely affected.. The Federal Reserve Board also has proposed rules that would limit certain physical commodity activities of financial holding companies.  Such rules, if adopted, may adversely affect our ability to execute our strategies by restricting our available counterparties for certain types of transactions, limiting our ability to obtain certain services, and reducing liquidity in physical and financial markets.  It is uncertain at this time whether, when and in what form the Federal Reserve's proposed rules regarding financial holding companies may become final and effective.. EMIR may result in increased costs for OTC derivative counterparties entering into swaps subject to EMIR.  We, and our non-EU subsidiaries and affiliates, are each categorized as an entity that would be a non-financial counterparty below EMIR's clearing threshold (a \"TCE NFC-\") when transacting OTC derivatives with EU counterparties as our derivatives business is used for hedging alone.  Our entities which are TCE NFC-s are not directly subject to EMIR when transacting with EU counterparties.  However, an EU counterparty requires a TCE NFC- to undertake certain obligations required by EMIR in order to ensure the EU counterparty's compliance with EMIR.  Further, our EU subsidiaries and affiliates are each categorized as a non-financial counterparty below EMIR's clearing threshold (a \"NFC-\") when transacting OTC derivatives and accordingly are directly subject. 21. to EMIR.  Regulation under EMIR as a NFC-, or complying with the obligations imposed upon a TCE NFC- by an EU counterparty as a consequence of EMIR, could significantly increase the cost of derivatives contracts, materially alter the terms of derivatives contracts and reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks that we encounter.  The increased costs may have an adverse impact on our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects.. Our subsidiaries and affiliates operating in the EU may be subject to REMIT as wholesale energy market participants.  This classification imposes increased regulatory obligations on our subsidiaries and affiliates, including a prohibition to use or disclose insider information or to engage in market manipulation in wholesale energy markets, and an obligation to report certain data.  These regulatory obligations may increase the cost of compliance for our business and if we violate these laws and regulations, we could be subject to investigation and penalties.. We expect that our hedging activities will remain subject to significant and developing regulations and regulatory oversight.  However, the full impact of the various U.S. (and non-U.S.) regulatory developments in connection with these activities will not be known with certainty until such derivatives market regulations are fully implemented and related market practices and structures are fully developed.. In making our investment decisions for the SPL Project, we have relied on several economic development programs in Louisiana, including Industrial Tax Exemption (\"ITE\") contracts.  If we were to lose significant tax incentives through the economic development programs or if the ITE contracts were declared void, the loss of such tax incentives and/or exemptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects.. SPL has utilized the ITE program, which is available for a \"new\" manufacturing establishment or an \"addition\" to an existing manufacturing establishment.  SPL has entered into a total of nine ITE contracts, which exempt from ad valorem property taxes all of SPL's assets when placed in service.. On October 12, 2016, a lawsuit was filed by JMCB, LLC (\"JMCB\") against SPL, the Louisiana Department of Economic Development (\"LED\") and the Louisiana Board of Commerce and Industry (\"BCI\") (the \"Pending Matter\").  In the Pending Matter, JMCB contends that one of SPL's ITE contracts should be declared an improper and unauthorized act of BCI.  JMCB asks the court to declare the contract null and void and without legal effect.  JMCB's petition is filed as a class action that seeks declaratory relief for all similarly situated taxpayers in Cameron Parish and for the governmental agencies that would have received the ad valorem property taxes, but for the ITE contract.  SPL believes that the likelihood that the resolution of the Pending Matter will have a material adverse effect on our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity or prospects is remote.  If we do not prevail in the Pending Matter, the loss of such tax exemption could have a material adverse effect on our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects.. Risks Relating to Our LNG Terminal Operations and Commercialization. Operation of the Sabine Pass LNG terminal, the SPL Project and the CCL Project, our pipelines and other facilities that we may construct involves significant risks.. As more fully discussed in these Risk Factors, the Sabine Pass LNG terminal, the SPL Project and the CCL Project, our pipelines and our other existing and proposed LNG facilities face operational risks, including the following:. • the facilities' performing below expected levels of efficiency;. • breakdown or failures of equipment;. • operational errors by vessel or tug operators;. • operational errors by us or any contracted facility operator;. • labor disputes; and. • weather-related interruptions of operations.. 22. We may not be successful in fully implementing our proposed business strategy to provide liquefaction capabilities at the Sabine Pass LNG terminal adjacent to the existing regasification facilities or the CCL Project.. It will take several years to construct the SPL Project and the CCL Project, and even if successfully constructed, the SPL Project and the CCL Project would be subject to the operating risks described herein.  Accordingly, there are many risks associated with the SPL Project and the CCL Project, and if we are not successful in implementing our business strategy, we may not be able to generate cash flows, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects.. Cost overruns and delays in the completion of one or more Trains or the Corpus Christi Pipeline, as well as difficulties in obtaining sufficient financing to pay for such costs and delays, could have a material adverse effect on our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects.. The actual construction costs of the Trains or the Corpus Christi Pipeline may be significantly higher than our current estimates as a result of many factors, including change orders under existing or future EPC contracts resulting from the occurrence of certain specified events that may give Bechtel the right to cause us to enter into change orders or resulting from changes with which we otherwise agree.  We have already experienced increased costs due to change orders.  We do not have any prior experience in constructing liquefaction facilities, and other than Trains 1 through 4 of the SPL Project, as of January 2018, no liquefaction facilities have been constructed and placed in service in the United States in over 40 years.  As construction progresses, we may decide or be forced to submit change orders to our contractor that could result in longer construction periods, higher construction costs or both, including change orders to comply with existing or future environmental or other regulations.. Delays in the construction of one or more Trains or the Corpus Christi Pipeline beyond the estimated development periods, as well as change orders to the EPC contracts with Bechtel or any future EPC contract related to additional Trains or the Corpus Christi Pipeline, could increase the cost of completion beyond the amounts that we estimate, which could require us to obtain additional sources of financing to fund our operations until the applicable liquefaction project is fully constructed (which could cause further delays).  Our ability to obtain financing that may be needed to provide additional funding to cover increased costs will depend, in part, on factors beyond our control.  Accordingly, we may not be able to obtain financing on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all.  Even if we are able to obtain financing, we may have to accept terms that are disadvantageous to us or that may have a material adverse effect on our current or future business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects.. Delays in the completion of one or more Trains could lead to reduced revenues or termination of one or more of the SPAs by our customers.. Any delay in completion of a Train could cause a delay in the receipt of revenues projected therefrom or cause a loss of one or more customers in the event of significant delays.  In particular, each of our SPAs provides that the customer may terminate that SPA if the relevant Train does not timely commence commercial operations.  As a result, any significant construction delay, whatever the cause, could have a material adverse effect on our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects.. Our ability to complete development of additional Trains will be contingent on our ability to obtain additional funding.  If we are unable to obtain sufficient funding, we may be unable to fully execute our business strategy.. We will require significant additional funding to be able to commence construction of Train 6 of the SPL Project and Train 3 of the CCL Project, which we may not be able to obtain at a cost that results in positive economics, or at all.  The inability to achieve acceptable funding may cause a delay in the development of additional Trains, and we may not be able to complete our business plan.  Even if we are able to obtain funding, the funding may be inadequate to cover any increases in costs or delays in completion of the applicable Train, which may cause a delay in the receipt of revenues projected therefrom or cause a loss of one or more future customers in the event of significant delays.  As a result, any significant construction delay, whatever the cause, could have a material adverse effect on our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects.. 23. Hurricanes or other disasters could result in an interruption of our operations, a delay in the completion of our liquefaction projects, higher construction costs and the deferral of the dates on which payments are due to us under the SPAs, all of which could adversely affect us.. In August and September of 2005, Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, respectively, damaged coastal and inland areas located in Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama, resulting in the temporary suspension of construction of the Sabine Pass LNG terminal.  In September 2008, Hurricane Ike struck the Texas and Louisiana coasts, and the Sabine Pass LNG terminal experienced minor damage.  In August 2017, Hurricane Harvey struck the Texas and Louisiana coasts, and the Sabine Pass LNG terminal experienced a temporary suspension in construction and LNG loading operations.  Construction on the Corpus Christi LNG terminal was also suspended.. Future storms and related storm activity and collateral effects, or other disasters such as explosions, fires, floods or accidents, could result in damage to, or interruption of operations at, the Sabine Pass LNG terminal or related infrastructure, as well as delays or cost increases in the construction and the development of the SPL Project, the CCL Project or our other facilities.  Changes in the global climate may have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods and rising sea levels; if any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our coastal operations.. Failure to obtain and maintain approvals and permits from governmental and regulatory agencies with respect to the design, construction and operation of our facilities could impede operations and construction and could have a material adverse effect on us.. The design, construction and operation of interstate natural gas pipelines, LNG terminals, including the SPL Project and the CCL Project and other facilities, and the import and export of LNG and the transportation of natural gas, are highly regulated activities.  Approvals of the FERC and DOE under Section 3 and Section 7 of the NGA, as well as several other material governmental and regulatory approvals and permits, including several under the CAA and the CWA, are required in order to construct and operate an LNG facility and an interstate natural gas pipeline and export LNG.  Although the FERC has issued orders under Section 3 of the NGA authorizing the siting, construction and operation of six Trains and related facilities of the SPL Project and three Trains and related facilities of the CCL Project and Section 7 of the NGA authorizing the construction and operation of the Creole Trail Pipeline and the Corpus Christi Pipeline, the FERC orders require us to comply with certain ongoing conditions and obtain certain additional approvals in conjunction with ongoing construction and operations of our liquefaction and pipeline facilities.  We will be required to obtain similar approvals and permits with respect to any expansion or modification of our liquefaction and pipeline facilities.  We cannot control the outcome of the FERC's or the DOE's review and approval processes.  Certain of these governmental permits, approvals and authorizations are or may be subject to rehearing requests, appeals and other challenges.. Authorizations obtained from the FERC, DOE and other federal and state regulatory agencies also contain ongoing conditions, and additional approval and permit requirements may be imposed.  We do not know whether or when any such approvals or permits can be obtained, or whether any existing or potential interventions or other actions by third parties will interfere with our ability to obtain and maintain such permits or approvals.  If we are unable to obtain and maintain the necessary approvals and permits, including as a result of untimely notices or filings, we may not be able to recover our investment in our projects.  There is no assurance that we will obtain and maintain these governmental permits, approvals and authorizations, or that we will be able to obtain them on a timely basis, and failure to obtain and maintain any of these permits, approvals or authorizations could have a material adverse effect on our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects.. We are dependent on Bechtel and other contractors for the successful completion of the SPL Project and the CCL Project.. Timely and cost-effective completion of the SPL Project and the CCL Project in compliance with agreed specifications is central to our business strategy and is highly dependent on the performance of Bechtel and our other contractors under their agreements.  The ability of Bechtel and our other contractors to perform successfully under their agreements is dependent on a number of factors, including their ability to:. • design and engineer each Train to operate in accordance with specifications;. • engage and retain third-party subcontractors and procure equipment and supplies;. • respond to difficulties such as equipment failure, delivery delays, schedule changes and failure to perform by subcontractors, some of which are beyond their control;. • attract, develop and retain skilled personnel, including engineers;. 24. • post required construction bonds and comply with the terms thereof;. • manage the construction process generally, including coordinating with other contractors and regulatory agencies; and. • maintain their own financial condition, including adequate working capital.. Although some agreements may provide for liquidated damages if the contractor fails to perform in the manner required with respect to certain of its obligations, the events that trigger a requirement to pay liquidated damages may delay or impair the operation of the SPL Project and the CCL Project, and any liquidated damages that we receive may not be sufficient to cover the damages that we suffer as a result of any such delay or impairment.  The obligations of Bechtel and our other contractors to pay liquidated damages under their agreements are subject to caps on liability, as set forth therein.. Furthermore, we may have disagreements with our contractors about different elements of the construction process, which could lead to the assertion of rights and remedies under their contracts and increase the cost of the SPL Project and the CCL Project or result in a contractor's unwillingness to perform further work on the SPL Project and the CCL Project.  If any contractor is unable or unwilling to perform according to the negotiated terms and timetable of its respective agreement for any reason or terminates its agreement, we would be required to engage a substitute contractor.  This would likely result in significant project delays and increased costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects.. We are relying on third-party engineers to estimate the future capacity ratings and performance capabilities of the SPL Project and the CCL Project, and these estimates may prove to be inaccurate.. We are relying on third parties, principally Bechtel, for the design and engineering services underlying our estimates of the future capacity ratings and performance capabilities of the SPL Project and the CCL Project.  If any Train, when actually constructed, fails to have the capacity ratings and performance capabilities that we intend, our estimates may not be accurate.  Failure of any of our Trains to achieve our intended capacity ratings and performance capabilities could prevent us from achieving the commercial start dates under our SPAs and could have a material adverse effect on our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects.. If third-party pipelines and other facilities interconnected to our pipelines and facilities are or become unavailable to transport natural gas, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects.. We depend upon third-party pipelines and other facilities that will provide gas delivery options to our liquefaction facilities and pipelines.  If the construction of new or modified pipeline connections is not completed on schedule or any pipeline connection were to become unavailable for current or future volumes of natural gas due to repairs, damage to the facility, lack of capacity or any other reason, our ability to meet our SPA obligations and continue shipping natural gas from producing regions or to end markets could be restricted, thereby reducing our revenues which could have a material adverse effect on our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects.. We may not be able to purchase or receive physical delivery of sufficient natural gas to satisfy our delivery obligations under the SPAs, which could have a material adverse effect on us.. Under the SPAs with our customers, we are required to make available to them a specified amount of LNG at specified times.  However, we may not be able to purchase or receive physical delivery of sufficient quantities of natural gas to satisfy those obligations, which may provide affected SPA customers with the right to terminate their SPAs.  Our failure to purchase or receive physical delivery of sufficient quantities of natural gas could have a material adverse effect on our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects.. Our interstate natural gas pipelines and their FERC gas tariffs are subject to FERC regulation.. Our interstate natural gas pipelines are subject to regulation by the FERC under the NGA and the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 (the \"NGPA\").  The FERC regulates the transportation of natural gas in interstate commerce, including the construction and operation of pipelines, the rates, terms of conditions of service and abandonment of facilities.  Under the NGA, the rates charged by our interstate natural gas pipelines must be just and reasonable, and we are prohibited from unduly preferring or unreasonably discriminating against any person with respect to pipeline rates or terms and conditions of service.  If we fail to. 25. comply with all applicable statutes, rules, regulations and orders, our interstate pipelines could be subject to substantial penalties and fines.. In addition, as a natural gas market participant, should we fail to comply with all applicable FERC-administered statutes, rules, regulations and orders, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines.  Under the EPAct, the FERC has civil penalty authority under the NGA and the NGPA to impose penalties for current violations of up to $1.3 million per day for each violation.. Pipeline safety integrity programs and repairs may impose significant costs and liabilities on us.. The PHMSA requires pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs to comprehensively evaluate certain areas along their pipelines and to take additional measures to protect pipeline segments located in \"high consequence areas\" where a leak or rupture could potentially do the most harm.  As an operator, we are required to:. • perform ongoing assessments of pipeline integrity;. • identify and characterize applicable threats to pipeline segments that could impact a \"high consequence area\";. • improve data collection, integration and analysis;. • repair and remediate the pipeline as necessary; and. • implement preventative and mitigating actions.. We are required to maintain pipeline integrity testing programs that are intended to assess pipeline integrity.  Any repair, remediation, preventative or mitigating actions may require significant capital and operating expenditures.  Should we fail to comply with applicable statutes and the Office of Pipeline Safety's rules and related regulations and orders, we could be subject to significant penalties and fines.. Any reduction in the capacity of, or the allocations to, interconnecting, third-party pipelines could cause a reduction of volumes transported in our pipelines, which would adversely affect our revenues and cash flow.. We will be dependent upon third-party pipelines and other facilities to provide delivery options to and from our pipelines.  If any pipeline connection were to become unavailable for volumes of natural gas due to repairs, damage to the facility, lack of capacity or any other reason, our ability to continue shipping natural gas to end markets could be restricted, thereby reducing our revenues.  Any permanent interruption at any key pipeline interconnect which caused a material reduction in volumes transported on our pipelines could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects.. Failure to obtain and maintain approvals and permits from governmental and regulatory agencies with respect to the development and operation of our interstate natural gas pipelines would have a detrimental effect on us and our pipeline projects.. The design, construction and operation of interstate natural gas pipelines and the transportation of natural gas are all highly regulated activities.  The FERC's approval under Section 7 of the NGA, as well as several other material governmental and regulatory approvals and permits, including several under the CAA and the CWA from the USACE and state environmental agencies, are required in order to construct and operate an interstate natural gas pipeline.  We have no control over the outcome of the review and approval process.  We do not know whether or when any such approvals or permits can be obtained, or whether or not any existing or potential interventions or other actions by third parties will interfere with our ability to obtain and maintain such permits or approvals.  If we are unable to obtain and maintain the necessary approvals and permits, we may not be able to recover our investment in our pipeline projects.  There is no assurance that we will obtain and maintain these governmental permits, approvals and authorizations, or that we will be able to obtain them on a timely basis, and failure to obtain and maintain any of these permits, approvals or authorizations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, liquidity and prospects.. 26. Our business could be materially and adversely affected if we lose the right to situate our pipelines on property owned by third parties.. We do not own the land on which our pipelines are situated, and we are subject to the possibility of increased costs to retain necessary land use rights.  If we were to lose these rights or be required to relocate our pipelines, our business could be materially and adversely affected.. Our exposure to the performance and credit risks of counterparties under agreements may adversely affect our operating results, liquidity and access to financing.. Our integrated marketing function involves our entering into various purchase and sale, hedging and other transactions with numerous third parties (commonly referred to as \"counterparties\").  In such arrangements, we are exposed to the performance and credit risks of our counterparties, including the risk that one or more counterparties fails to perform its obligation to make deliveries of commodities and/or to make payments.  These risks may increase during periods of commodity price volatility.  Defaults by suppliers and other counterparties may adversely affect our operating results, liquidity and access to financing.. We may not be able to contract with customers to sell LNG produced in excess of the aggregate annual contract quantities committed to SPL's and CCL's third-party SPAs.. We expect to sell any LNG produced in excess of the aggregate annual contract quantity committed to SPL's and CCL's third-party SPAs through our integrated marketing function.  We are developing a portfolio of long-, medium- and short-term SPAs to transport and unload commercial LNG cargoes to locations worldwide, which is primarily sourced by LNG produced by the SPL Project and the CCL Project in excess of the contract quantities committed to SPL's and CCL's third party SPAs, supplemented by volume procured from other locations worldwide, as needed.  Failure to secure buyers for a sufficient amount of LNG could materially and adversely affect our operating results, cash flows and liquidity.. Risks Relating to Our LNG Businesses in General. We may not construct or operate all of our proposed LNG facilities or Trains or any additional LNG facilities or Trains beyond those currently planned, which could limit our growth prospects.. We may not construct some of our proposed LNG facilities or Trains, whether due to lack of commercial interest or inability to obtain financing or otherwise.  Our ability to develop additional liquefaction facilities will also depend on the availability and pricing of LNG and natural gas in North America and other places around the world.  Competitors may have longer operating histories, more development experience, greater name recognition, larger staffs and substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources and access to sources of natural gas and LNG than we do.  If we are unable or unwilling to construct and operate additional LNG facilities, our prospects for growth will be limited.. Our cost estimates for Trains are subject to change as a result of cost overruns, change orders under existing or future construction contracts, changes in commodity prices (particularly nickel and steel), escalating labor costs and the potential need for additional funds to be expended to maintain construction schedules.  In the event we experience cost overruns, delays or both, the amount of funding needed to complete a Train could exceed our available funds and result in our failure to complete such Train and thereby negatively impact our business and limit our growth prospects.. Cyclical or other changes in the demand for and price of LNG and natural gas may adversely affect our LNG business and the performance of our customers and could have a material adverse effect on our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, liquidity and prospects.. Our LNG business and the development of domestic LNG facilities and projects generally is based on assumptions about the future availability and price of natural gas and LNG and the prospects for international natural gas and LNG markets.  Natural gas and LNG prices have been, and are likely to continue to be, volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to one or more of the following factors:. • additions to competitive regasification capacity in North America, Europe, Asia and other markets, which could divert LNG from the Sabine Pass LNG terminal;. • competitive liquefaction capacity in North America;. 27. • insufficient or oversupply of natural gas liquefaction or receiving capacity worldwide;. • insufficient LNG tanker capacity;. • weather conditions;. • reduced demand and lower prices for natural gas;. • increased natural gas production deliverable by pipelines, which could suppress demand for LNG;. • decreased oil and natural gas exploration activities, which may decrease the production of natural gas;. • cost improvements that allow competitors to offer LNG regasification services or provide natural gas liquefaction capabilities at reduced prices;. • changes in supplies of, and prices for, alternative energy sources such as coal, oil, nuclear, hydroelectric, wind and solar energy, which may reduce the demand for natural gas;. • changes in regulatory, tax or other governmental policies regarding imported or exported LNG, natural gas or alternative energy sources, which may reduce the demand for imported or exported LNG and/or natural gas;. • political conditions in natural gas producing regions;. • adverse relative demand for LNG compared to other markets, which may decrease LNG imports into or exports from North America; and. • cyclical trends in general business and economic conditions that cause changes in the demand for natural gas.. Adverse trends or developments affecting any of these factors could result in decreases in the price of LNG and/or natural gas, which could materially and adversely affect the performance of our customers, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, liquidity and prospects.. Failure of imported or exported LNG to be a competitive source of energy for international markets could adversely affect our customers and could materially and adversely affect our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects.. Operations of the SPL Project are, and operations at the CCL Project will be, dependent upon the ability of our SPA customers to deliver LNG supplies from the United States, which is primarily dependent upon LNG being a competitive source of energy internationally.  The success of our business plan is dependent, in part, on the extent to which LNG can, for significant periods and in significant volumes, be supplied from North America and delivered to international markets at a lower cost than the cost of alternative energy sources.  Through the use of improved exploration technologies, additional sources of natural gas may be discovered outside the United States, which could increase the available supply of natural gas outside the United States and could result in natural gas in those markets being available at a lower cost than LNG exported to those markets.. Operations at the Sabine Pass LNG terminal are dependent, in part, upon the ability of our TUA customers to import LNG supplies into the United States, which is primarily dependent upon LNG being a competitive source of energy in North America.  In North America, due mainly to a historically abundant supply of natural gas and discoveries of substantial quantities of unconventional, or shale, natural gas, imported LNG has not developed into a significant energy source.  The success of the regasification services component of our business plan is dependent, in part, on the extent to which LNG can, for significant periods and in significant volumes, be produced internationally and delivered to North America at a lower cost than the cost to produce some domestic supplies of natural gas, or other alternative energy sources.  Through the use of improved exploration technologies, additional sources of natural gas have recently been and may continue to be discovered in North America, which could further increase the available supply of natural gas and could result in natural gas being available at a lower cost than imported LNG.. Political instability in foreign countries that import or export natural gas, or strained relations between such countries and the United States, may also impede the willingness or ability of LNG purchasers or suppliers and merchants in such countries to import or export LNG from or to the United States.  Furthermore, some foreign purchasers or suppliers of LNG may have economic or other reasons to obtain their LNG from, or direct their LNG to, non-U.S. markets or from or to our competitors' liquefaction or regasification facilities in the United States.. In addition to natural gas, LNG also competes with other sources of energy, including coal, oil, nuclear, hydroelectric, wind and solar energy.  LNG from the SPL Project and the CCL Project also competes with other sources of LNG, including LNG that. 28. is priced to indices other than Henry Hub.  Some of these sources of energy may be available at a lower cost than LNG from the SPL Project and the CCL Project in certain markets.  The cost of LNG supplies from the United States, including the SPL Project and the CCL Project, may also be impacted by an increase in natural gas prices in the United States.. As a result of these and other factors, LNG may not be a competitive source of energy in the United States or internationally.  The failure of LNG to be a competitive supply alternative to local natural gas, oil and other alternative energy sources in markets accessible to our customers could adversely affect the ability of our customers to deliver LNG from the United States or to the United States on a commercial basis.  Any significant impediment to the ability to deliver LNG to or from the United States generally, or to the Sabine Pass LNG terminal or from the SPL Project and the CCL Project specifically, could have a material adverse effect on our customers and on our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects.. Various economic and political factors could negatively affect the development, construction and operation of LNG facilities, including the SPL Project, the CCL Project and expansion projects, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects.. Commercial development of an LNG facility takes a number of years, requires a substantial capital investment and may be delayed by factors such as:. • increased construction costs;. • economic downturns, increases in interest rates or other events that may affect the availability of sufficient financing for LNG projects on commercially reasonable terms;. • decreases in the price of LNG, which might decrease the expected returns relating to investments in LNG projects;. • the inability of project owners or operators to obtain governmental approvals to construct or operate LNG facilities;. • political unrest or local community resistance to the siting of LNG facilities due to safety, environmental or security concerns; and. • any significant explosion, spill or similar incident involving an LNG facility or LNG vessel.. There may be shortages of LNG vessels worldwide, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects.. The construction and delivery of LNG vessels require significant capital and long construction lead times, and the availability of the vessels could be delayed to the detriment of our business and our customers because of:. • an inadequate number of shipyards constructing LNG vessels and a backlog of orders at these shipyards;. • political or economic disturbances in the countries where the vessels are being constructed;. • changes in governmental regulations or maritime self-regulatory organizations;. • work stoppages or other labor disturbances at the shipyards;. • bankruptcy or other financial crisis of shipbuilders;. • quality or engineering problems;. • weather interference or a catastrophic event, such as a major earthquake, tsunami or fire; and. • shortages of or delays in the receipt of necessary construction materials.. We may not be able to secure firm pipeline transportation capacity on economic terms that is sufficient to meet our feed gas transportation requirements, which could have a material adverse effect on us.. We have contracted for firm capacity for our natural gas feedstock transportation requirements for Trains 1 through 5 of the SPL Project and Trains 1 and 2 of the CCL Project.  We cannot control the regulatory and permitting approvals or third parties' construction times.  If and when we need to replace one or more of our agreements with these interconnecting pipelines, we may not be able to do so on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which could impair our ability to fulfill our obligations under. 29. certain of our SPAs and could have a material adverse effect on our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects.. We face competition based upon the international market price for LNG.. Our liquefaction projects are subject to the risk of LNG price competition at times when we need to replace any existing SPA, whether due to natural expiration, default or otherwise, or enter into new SPAs.  Factors relating to competition may prevent us from entering into a new or replacement SPA on economically comparable terms as existing SPAs, or at all.  Such an event could have a material adverse effect on our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects.  Factors which may negatively affect potential demand for LNG from our liquefaction projects are diverse and include, among others:. • increases in worldwide LNG production capacity and availability of LNG for market supply;. • increases in demand for LNG but at levels below those required to maintain current price equilibrium with respect to supply;. • increases in the cost to supply natural gas feedstock to our liquefaction projects;. • decreases in the cost of competing sources of natural gas or alternate fuels such as coal, heavy fuel oil and diesel;. • decreases in the price of non-U.S. LNG, including decreases in price as a result of contracts indexed to lower oil prices;. • increases in capacity and utilization of nuclear power and related facilities; and. • displacement of LNG by pipeline natural gas or alternate fuels in locations where access to these energy sources is not currently available.. Terrorist attacks, including cyberterrorism, or military campaigns may adversely impact our business.. A terrorist, including a cyberterrorist, or military incident involving an LNG facility, our infrastructure or an LNG vessel may result in delays in, or cancellation of, construction of new LNG facilities, including one or more of the Trains, which would increase our costs and decrease our cash flows.  A terrorist incident may also result in temporary or permanent closure of existing LNG facilities, including the Sabine Pass LNG terminal or the Creole Trail Pipeline, which could increase our costs and decrease our cash flows, depending on the duration and timing of the closure.  Our operations could also become subject to increased governmental scrutiny that may result in additional security measures at a significant incremental cost to us.  In addition, the threat of terrorism and the impact of military campaigns may lead to continued volatility in prices for natural gas that could adversely affect our business and our customers, including their ability to satisfy their obligations to us under our commercial agreements.  Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism, including cyberterrorism, or war could also materially adversely affect our ability to raise capital.  The continuation of these developments may subject our construction and our operations to increased risks, as well as increased costs, and, depending on their ultimate magnitude, could have a material adverse effect on our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects.. Risks Relating to Our Business in General. We are subject to significant operating hazards and uninsured risks, one or more of which may create significant liabilities and losses for us.. The construction and operation of our LNG terminals and our pipelines are, and will be, subject to the inherent risks associated with these types of operations, including explosions, pollution, release of toxic substances, fires, hurricanes and adverse weather conditions and other hazards, each of which could result in significant delays in commencement or interruptions of operations and/or in damage to or destruction of our facilities or damage to persons and property.  In addition, our operations and the facilities and vessels of third parties on which our operations are dependent face possible risks associated with acts of aggression or terrorism.. We do not, nor do we intend to, maintain insurance against all of these risks and losses.  We may not be able to maintain desired or required insurance in the future at rates that we consider reasonable.  The occurrence of a significant event not fully insured or indemnified against could have a material adverse effect on our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects.. 30. Existing and future environmental and similar laws and governmental regulations could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating costs or construction costs and restrictions.. Our business is and will be subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations that regulate and restrict, among other things, discharges to air, land and water, with particular respect to the protection of the environment and natural resources; the handling, storage and disposal of hazardous materials, hazardous waste and petroleum products; and remediation associated with the release of hazardous substances.  Many of these laws and regulations, such as the CAA, the Oil Pollution Act, the CWA and the RCRA, and analogous state laws and regulations, restrict or prohibit the types, quantities and concentration of substances that can be released into the environment in connection with the construction and operation of our facilities, and require us to maintain permits and provide governmental authorities with access to our facilities for inspection and reports related to our compliance.  In addition, certain environmental laws and regulations authorize regulators having jurisdiction over our LNG terminals to issue compliance orders, which may restrict or limit operations or increase compliance or operating costs.  Violation of these laws and regulations could lead to substantial liabilities, fines and penalties or to capital expenditures related to pollution control equipment that could have a material adverse effect on our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects.  Federal and state laws impose liability, without regard to fault or the lawfulness of the original conduct, for the release of certain types or quantities of hazardous substances into the environment.  As the owner and operator of our facilities, we could be liable for the costs of cleaning up hazardous substances released into the environment at or from our facilities and for resulting damage to natural resources.. In October 2015, the EPA promulgated a final rule to implement the Obama Administration's Clean Power Plan, which is designed to reduce GHG emissions from power plants in the United States.  In February 2016, the U.S. Supreme Court stayed the final rule, effectively suspending the duty to comply with the rule until certain legal challenges are resolved.  In March 2017, President Trump directed EPA via Executive Order to review and determine whether it is appropriate to revise or rescind the Clean Power Plan.  On October 10, 2017, EPA issued a proposal to repeal the Clean Power Plan after concluding the October 2015 final rule exceeds EPA's statutory authority under the CAA.  The October 2017 proposal does not include regulations to replace the Clean Power Plan and EPA stated in the October 2017 proposal that it has not determined whether it will issue replacement regulations to regulate GHG emissions from existing EGUs.  The Trump Administration announced in June 2017 that the United States would withdraw from the Paris Accord, an international agreement within the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change under which the Obama Administration committed the United States to reducing its economy-wide GHG emission by 26-28% below 2005 levels by 2025.  Other federal and state initiatives may be considered in the future to address GHG emissions through, for example, United States treaty commitments, direct regulation, a carbon emissions tax, or cap-and-trade programs.  Such initiatives, including a future replacement rule for the Clean Power Plan could affect the demand for or cost of natural gas, which we consume at our terminals, or could increase compliance costs for our operations.. Other future legislation and regulations, such as those relating to the transportation and security of LNG imported to or exported from our terminals, could cause additional expenditures, restrictions and delays in our business and to our proposed construction, the extent of which cannot be predicted and which may require us to limit substantially, delay or cease operations in some circumstances.  Revised, reinterpreted or additional laws and regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating or construction costs and restrictions could have a material adverse effect on our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects.. A major health and safety incident relating to our business could be costly in terms of potential liabilities and reputational damage.. Health and safety performance is critical to the success of all areas of our business.  Any failure in health and safety performance may result in personal harm or injury, penalties for non-compliance with relevant regulatory requirements or litigation, and a failure that results in a significant health and safety incident is likely to be costly in terms of potential liabilities.  Such a failure could generate public concern and have a corresponding impact on our reputation and our relationships with relevant regulatory agencies and local communities, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects.. 31. We may experience increased labor costs, and the unavailability of skilled workers or our failure to attract and retain qualified personnel could adversely affect us.  In addition, changes in our senior management or other key personnel could affect our business results.. We are dependent upon the available labor pool of skilled employees.  We compete with other energy companies and other employers to attract and retain qualified personnel with the technical skills and experience required to construct and operate our facilities and pipelines and to provide our customers with the highest quality service.  Our affiliates who hire personnel on our behalf are also subject to the Fair Labor Standards Act, which governs such matters as minimum wage, overtime and other working conditions.  A shortage in the labor pool of skilled workers or other general inflationary pressures or changes in applicable laws and regulations could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified personnel and could require an increase in the wage and benefits packages that we offer, thereby increasing our operating costs.  Any increase in our operating costs could materially and adversely affect our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects.. We depend on our executive officers for various activities.  We do not maintain key person life insurance policies on any of our personnel.  Although we have arrangements relating to compensation and benefits with certain of our executive officers, we do not have any employment contracts or other agreements with key personnel other than our employment agreement with our President and Chief Executive Officer binding them to provide services for any particular term.  The loss of the services of any of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our lack of diversification could have an adverse effect on our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects.. Substantially all of our anticipated revenue in 2018 will be dependent upon one facility, the Sabine Pass LNG terminal located in southern Louisiana.  Due to our lack of asset and geographic diversification, an adverse development at the Sabine Pass LNG terminal or the Corpus Christi LNG terminal, including the related pipelines, or in the LNG industry, would have a significantly greater impact on our financial condition and operating results than if we maintained more diverse assets and operating areas.. We may incur impairments to goodwill or long-lived assets.. We test our long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable.  We test goodwill for impairment annually during the fourth quarter, or more frequently as circumstances dictate.  Significant negative industry or economic trends, including a significant decline in the market price of our common stock, reduced estimates of future cash flows for our business segments or disruptions to our business could lead to an impairment charge of our long-lived assets, including goodwill.  Our valuation methodology for assessing impairment requires management to make judgments and assumptions based on historical experience and to rely heavily on projections of future operating performance.  Projections of future operating results and cash flows may vary significantly from results.  In addition, if our analysis results in an impairment to our goodwill or long-lived assets, we may be required to record a charge to earnings in our Consolidated Financial Statements during a period in which such impairment is determined to exist, which may negatively impact our operating results.. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past and is likely to fluctuate in the future.  Our stockholders could lose all or part of their investment.. The market price of our common stock has historically experienced and may continue to experience volatility.  For example, during the three-year period ended December 31, 2017, the market price of our common stock ranged between $22.80 and $82.32.  Such fluctuations may continue as a result of a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including:. • domestic and worldwide supply of and demand for natural gas and corresponding fluctuations in the price of natural gas;. • fluctuations in our quarterly or annual financial results or those of other companies in our industry;. • issuance of additional equity securities which causes further dilution to stockholders;. • sales of a high volume of shares of our common stock by our stockholders;. • operating and stock price performance of companies that investors deem comparable to us;. • events affecting other companies that the market deems comparable to us;. 32. • changes in government regulation or proposals applicable to us;. • actual or potential non-performance by any customer or a counterparty under any agreement;. • announcements made by us or our competitors of significant contracts;. • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles;. • general conditions in the industries in which we operate;. • general economic conditions;. • the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock or changes in financial or other estimates by analysts; and. • other factors described in these \"Risk Factors.\". In addition, the United States securities markets have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations.  These fluctuations have often been unrelated to the operating performance of companies in these markets.  Market fluctuations and broad market, economic and industry factors may negatively affect the price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance.  If we were to be the object of securities class litigation as a result of volatility in our common stock price or for other reasons, it could result in substantial diversion of our management's attention and resources, which could negatively affect our financial results.. If there is a determination that any of the restructuring transactions entered into prior to and in connection with Cheniere Holdings' initial public offering are taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes and Cheniere Holdings ceases to be a member of our consolidated group for U.S. federal income tax purposes, then we could incur significant income tax liabilities.. Prior to and in connection with Cheniere Holdings' initial public offering, we, Cheniere Holdings and other members of our consolidated group for U.S. federal income tax purposes participated in a series of restructuring transactions intended to qualify as tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes.  No ruling from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service was requested in connection with such restructuring transactions.  Under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code (\"IRC\"), Cheniere Holdings will cease to be a member of our consolidated group for U.S. federal income tax purposes (a deconsolidation) if at any time we own less than 80% of the vote or 80% of the value of Cheniere Holdings' outstanding shares, whether by issuance of additional shares by Cheniere Holdings or by our sale or other disposition of Cheniere Holdings' shares.  If any of the restructuring transactions is determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes for any reason, following a deconsolidation, we could incur significant income tax liabilities.. U.S. federal income tax reform could adversely affect us.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"TCJA\") was signed into law, significantly reforming the IRC.  The TCJA, among other things, includes changes to U.S. federal tax rates, imposes significant additional limitations on the deductibility of interest, allows for the expensing of capital expenditures, and imposes limitations on the use of net operating losses arising in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017.  The reduction of the U.S. corporate tax rate results in a decreased valuation of our deferred tax asset and liabilities.  We continue to examine the impact the TCJA may have on our business.  The estimated impact of the TCJA is based on our management's current knowledge and assumptions and recognized impacts could be materially different from current estimates based on our actual results."
