[1] "Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. Investors in the Company should consider the following risk factors as well as the other information contained herein:. Changes in our Comparable Retail Sales and/or quarterly results of operations could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.. Numerous factors affect our Comparable Retail Sales and quarterly financial results, including unseasonable weather conditions, merchandise assortment and product acceptance, the retail price of our merchandise, fashion trends, mall traffic, number of visits to our e-commerce site, as well as related conversion, economic conditions in general and the retail sales environment in particular, calendar shifts of holidays or seasonal periods, birth rate fluctuations, timing or extent of promotional events by our Company or by competitors and other competitive factors, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, macro-economic conditions and our success in executing our business strategies.. 10. Table of Contents. Unseasonable weather, for example, warm weather in the winter or cold weather in the spring over an extended period of time, or the occurrence of frequent or severe storms, may adversely affect our sales and therefore our Comparable Retail Sales. The nature of our target customer heightens the effects of unseasonable weather on our sales. Our target customer is a value conscious, lower to middle income mother buying for infants and children primarily based on need rather than based on fashion, trend or impulse. Therefore, for example, our target customer may not purchase warm weather spring clothing during an extended period of unseasonably cold weather occurring in what otherwise should be warmer weather months.. Our Comparable Retail Sales and quarterly results have fluctuated significantly in the past due to the factors cited above, and we anticipate that they may continue to fluctuate in the future, particularly in the highly competitive retail environment in which we operate, which may result in declines or delays in consumer spending.  The investment and analyst community follows Comparable Retail Sales and quarterly results closely and fluctuations in these results, or the failure of our results to meet our publicly announced guidance concerning Comparable Retail Sales, earnings per share, and other financial metrics or our investors' or analysts' expectations, may have a significant adverse effect on the price of our common stock.. We may not be able to successfully execute our business strategies.. Our strategic initiatives involve a focus on delivering product of a quality and value that resonates with our customers, the transformation of our business systems, including to augment our digital and omni-channel capabilities, align and upgrade our distribution and logistics operations, to optimize our inventory buys and allocations, to expand our channels of distribution and geographical coverage, and to optimize our North American retail store fleet.  Our failure to properly execute our plans, delays in executing our plans or failure to identify alternative strategies could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. During Fiscal 2018, we will continue to implement and refine our business systems transformation initiatives designed to increase sales and profitability.  Our business transformation through technology initiative has two key components: inventory management and digital transformation. With respect to inventory management, the tools we have implemented are delivering gross margin and inventory productivity benefits, and although there can be no assurances, we expect that additional tools and the refinement of existing tools will continue to do the same. With respect to digital transformation, we are in the process of developing and implementing a personalized customer contact strategy.  These initiatives require the execution of complex projects involving significant systems and operational changes, which place considerable demands on our management and our information and other systems.  Our ability to successfully implement and capitalize on these projects is dependent on management's ability to manage these projects effectively and implement and operate them successfully, without adversely affecting the subject and/or other systems, and on our employees' ability to affect the required operational changes.  If we fail to implement these projects effectively, including aligning them with our distribution and logistics operations, we experience significant delay or cost overruns or the necessary operational changes are not affected properly, we may not realize the return on our investments that we anticipate, we may adversely affect the operation of other systems, and our business, financial position, operating results, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.. During Fiscal 2018, we plan to drive additional growth through our international and wholesale distribution channels.  Consumer demand, behavior, taste and purchasing trends, as well as economic and political stability may differ in international markets and/or in the distribution channels through which our wholesale customers sell products and, as a result, sales of our products may not be successful or meet our expectations, or the margins on those sales may not be in line with those we currently anticipate.  We may also face difficulties integrating foreign business operations and/or wholesaling operations with our current sourcing, distribution, information technology systems and other operations.  Any of these challenges could hinder our success in new markets or new distribution channels.  There can be no assurance that we will successfully complete any planned expansion or that any new business will be profitable or meet our expectations.. During Fiscal 2018, we will continue our store fleet optimization program, which is intended to increase the profitability of our existing retail store fleet.  Currently, it is planned that this program will close approximately 300 retail stores through fiscal 2020, which includes the 169 retail stores closed between fiscal 2013 and Fiscal 2017.  Failure to properly identify or measure underperforming retail stores, failure to achieve anticipated sales transfer rates from closed stores to remaining retail stores and/or e-commerce sales, and failure to properly identify and analyze customer segmentation and spending patterns could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.  In addition, pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles, we are required to recognize an impairment charge when circumstances indicate that the carrying value of long-lived assets may not be recoverable.  If a determination is made that the asset's carrying value of a long-lived asset is not recoverable over its estimated useful life, the asset is written down to its estimated fair value.. Any of the above risks, individually or in aggregation, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. 11. Table of Contents. A privacy breach, through a cybersecurity incident or otherwise, or failure to comply with privacy laws could materially adversely affect our business.. As part of normal operations, we and our third-party vendors and partners, receive and maintain confidential and personally identifiable information about our customers and employees, and confidential financial, intellectual property, and other information.  We regard the protection of our customer, employee, and company information as critical. The regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is very demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and changing requirements some of which involve significant costs to implement and significant penalties if not followed properly.   Despite our efforts and technology to secure our computer network and systems, a cybersecurity breach, whether targeted, random, or inadvertent, and whether at the hands of cyber criminals, hackers, rogue employees or other persons, may occur and could go undetected for a period of time, resulting in a material disruption of our computer network, a loss of information valuable to our business, including without limitation customer or employee personally identifiable information, and/or theft.   A similar breach to the computer networks and systems of our third-party vendors and partners, including those that are cloud-based, over which we have no control may occur, leading to a material disruption of our computer network and/or the areas of our business dependent on the support, services and other products provided by our third-party vendors and partners which may be adversely affected by such breach, a decrease in e-commerce sales and/or a loss of information valuable to our business, including without limitation customer or employee personally identifiable information.  Such a cyber-incident could result in any of the following:. •theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation, or release of confidential financial and other data, intellectual property, customer awards or loyalty points, or customer or employee information, including personally identifiable information such as payment card information, email addresses, passwords, social security numbers, home addresses, or health information;. •operational or business delays resulting from the disruption of our e-commerce site, computer network or the computer networks of our third-party vendors and partners and subsequent material clean-up and mitigation costs and activities;. •negative publicity resulting in material reputation or brand damage with our customers, vendors, third-party partners or industry peers;. •loss of sales, including those generated through our e-commerce website; and. •governmental penalties, fines and/or enforcement actions, payment and industry penalties and fines and /or class action and other lawsuits.. Our systems and procedures are required to meet the Payment Card Industry (\"PCI\") data security standards, which require periodic audits by independent third parties to assess compliance.  Failure to comply with the security requirements or rectify a security issue may result in substantial fines and the imposition of material restrictions on our ability to accept payment by credit or debit cards.  There can be no assurance that we will be able to satisfy PCI security standards or to identify security issues in a timely fashion.  In addition, PCI are controlled by a limited number of vendors who have the ability to impose changes in PCI's fee structure and operational requirements on us without negotiation.  Such changes in fees and operational requirements may result in our failure to comply with PCI security standards, as well as significant unanticipated expenses.. Any of the above risks, individually or in aggregation, could materially damage our reputation and result in lost sales, governmental and payment card industry fines, and/or class action and other lawsuits, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.  Although we carry cybersecurity insurance, in the event of a cyber-incident, that insurance may not be extensive enough or adequate in scope of coverage or amount to reimburse us for damages we may incur.  Further, a significant breach of federal, state, provincial, local or international privacy laws could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. Our failure to successfully manage our e-commerce business could have a material adverse impact on our business.. The successful operation of our e-commerce business depends on our ability to maintain the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our online order-taking and our fulfillment operations, and on our ability to provide a shopping experience that will generate orders and return visits to our site, including by updating our e-commerce platform to stay abreast of changing consumer shopping habits such as the significantly increased use of mobile devices and apps to shop online.  Risks associated with our e-commerce business include:. 12. Table of Contents. •risks associated with the failure of the computer systems that operate our website include, among others, inadequate system capacity, security breaches, computer viruses, human error, changes in programming, failure of system upgrades, or unintended disruptions occasioned as a result of such upgrades, or migration of these services to new systems;. •disruptions in telephone service or power outages;. •reliance on third parties for computer hardware and software, updates as well as delivery of merchandise to our customers;. •rapid technology changes and changes in consumer shopping habits such as the significantly increased use of mobile devices and apps to shop online;. •credit card fraud;. •the diversion of sales from our physical stores;. •natural disasters or adverse weather conditions;. •changes in applicable federal and state regulations;. •negative reviews on social media;. •liability for online advertising and content; and. •consumer privacy and information security concerns and regulation.. Problems in any one or more of these areas could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows, and could damage our reputation and brand.. We have a single corporate headquarters, a single distribution center serving the U.S., a single distribution center serving Canada and a single third-party warehouse provider serving the majority of shipments for our international franchise partners.   Damage to, or a prolonged interruption of operations at, any of these facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our U.S. corporate headquarters is located in Secaucus, New Jersey.  Our U.S. distribution center is located in Fort Payne, Alabama.  This facility handles all of our warehousing and store fulfillment activities in the U.S., as well as the fulfillment of all of our e-commerce orders in the U.S.  Our Canadian distribution center is located in Mississauga, Ontario.  We also use a third-party provider, also located in Mississauga, to support our Canadian e-commerce operations.  These Ontario facilities handle all of our warehousing, and store and e-commerce fulfillment activities in Canada.  Our international franchise partners receive the vast majority of shipments of merchandise from our third-party warehouse provider located in greater Asia.  On occasion, we may utilize additional facilities to support our seasonal warehousing needs.  Damage to, or prolonged interruption of operations at, any of these facilities due to a work stoppage, weather conditions such as a tornado, hurricane or flood, other natural disaster, fire, or other event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. A material disruption in, failure of, inability to upgrade, or inability to properly implement disaster recovery plans for, our information technology or other business systems could materially adversely affect our business, financial position or results of operations and cash flows.. We rely heavily on various information and other business systems to manage our complex operations, including our online business, management of our global supply chain, merchandise assortment planning, inventory allocation and replenishment, order management, warehousing, distribution and shipping activities, point-of-sale processing in our stores, including credit and debit card processing, gift cards, our private label credit card, our customer loyalty program, and various other processes and transactions.  We continue to evaluate and implement upgrades and changes to our information technology (\"IT\") and other business systems.. Implementing upgrades and changes to our IT and other business systems carries substantial risk, including failure to operate as designed, failure to properly integrate with, or disruption of, other systems, potential loss of data or information, cost overruns, implementation delays, disruption of operations, inability to properly train associates on new processes, inability to. 13. Table of Contents. properly direct change management, failure to implement appropriate security, disaster recovery or business continuity measures, lower customer satisfaction resulting in lost customers or sales, inability to deliver the optimal level of merchandise to our stores in a timely manner, inventory shortages, inventory levels in excess of customer demand, inability to meet the demands of our international franchise partners or our wholesale and retail customers, and the inability to meet financial, regulatory, and other reporting requirements.  There is no assurance that a successfully implemented system will deliver or continue to deliver any anticipated sales or margin improvements or other benefits to us.. Further, disruptions or malfunctions affecting our current or new information or other business systems could cause critical information upon which we rely to be lost, delayed, unreliable, corrupted, insufficient, or inaccessible.. We continue to focus on the implementation of IT disaster recovery and/or implementation of high availability readiness with regard to our e-commerce, finance, reporting, logistics, store operations, merchandising, sourcing, and other key systems in order to protect against the loss or corruption of critical data.  There can be no assurance that we will be successful in implementing the appropriate disaster recovery plans or high availability readiness to protect against such loss or corruption.  The failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. Risks associated with our information technology and other business systems include:. •risks associated with the failure or disruption of our information technology and other business systems due to inadequate system capacity, security breaches, computer viruses, human error, changes in programming, failure of third-parties to continue to support older systems, system upgrades or migration of these services to new systems;. •inadequacy of disaster recovery processes and the failure to align these processes with business continuity plans;. •natural disasters or adverse weather conditions;. •disruptions in telephone service or power outages;. •reliance on third parties for computer hardware and software, updates (patches), as well as delivery of merchandise to our customers;. •rapid technology changes; and. •consumer privacy and information security concerns and regulation.. Any of these potential issues, individually or in aggregation, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. We also rely on third-party vendors and outsourcing partners to design, program, implement, maintain and service our existing and planned information systems, including those operated through cloud-based technology.  Any failures of these vendors to properly deliver their services in a timely fashion, any determination by those vendors to stop supporting certain systems or components, or any failure of these vendors to protect our competitively sensitive data, or the personal data of our customers or employees, or to prevent the authorized access to, or corruption of, such data, whether in their possession, through our information systems or cloud-based technology utilized by us, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. We depend on our relationships with unaffiliated manufacturers, transportation companies, and independent agents.  Our inability to maintain relationships with any of these entities, or the disruption to or failure of any of their businesses, could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations.. We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities, and therefore, are dependent upon independent third parties for the manufacture of all of our products.  The vast majority of our products are currently manufactured to our specifications, pursuant to purchase orders, by independent manufacturers located primarily in greater Asia and Africa.  We have no exclusive or long-term contracts with our manufacturers.  We compete with other companies for manufacturing facilities, many of which have greater financial resources than we have or pay a higher unit price than we do.  If an existing manufacturer of merchandise must be replaced for any reason, we will have to find alternative sources of manufacturing or increase purchases from our other third-party manufacturers, and there is no assurance we will be able to do so or do so on terms that are acceptable to us.. We do not use commissioned buying agents to source any products.  Although we believe that we have the in-house capability to more efficiently source substantially all of our purchases, our inability to do so, or our inability to find adequate. 14. Table of Contents. sources to support our current needs for merchandise and future growth, could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. The failure of our third-party manufacturers, which we do not control, to adhere to local law, and industry standards and practices generally accepted as ethical in the United States in the areas of worker safety (e.g. fire safety and building codes), worker rights of association, and social compliance and health and welfare, could result in accidents and practices that cause material disruptions or delays in production or delivery and/or material harm to our reputation, either of which could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. Our merchandise is shipped directly from manufacturers through third party logistics providers to our distribution and fulfillment centers, and in turn, to our stores, our e-commerce customers and our international franchise partners and wholesale customers.  Our operating results depend in material part on the orderly, timely and accurate operation of our shipping, receiving and distribution process, which depends, in part, on our manufacturers' adherence to shipping schedules and our third-party providers' effective management of our domestic and international shipping functions, distribution facilities and capacity.. Furthermore, it is possible that events beyond our control, such as political or social unrest, labor dispute, cybersecurity events affecting our unaffiliated manufacturers, transportation companies or independent agents, a terrorist or similar act, military action, strike, weather patterns, natural disasters, government spending cuts or other disruption impacting the countries that we source from, could result in delays or disruptions in the production and/or delivery of merchandise to our distribution centers or our stores, international franchise partners and wholesale customers, or the fulfillment of e-commerce orders to our customers, or require us to incur substantial additional costs in air freight to ensure timely delivery.  Any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. If our agents, principal manufacturers or freight operators experience negative financial consequences, our inability to use or find substitute providers to support our manufacturing and distribution needs in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. Because we purchase our products internationally and from unaffiliated manufacturers, our business is subject to risks associated with international business, the lack of control of independent manufacturers and reliance on imported products.. Virtually all of our merchandise is purchased from foreign suppliers.  As a result, we are subject to various risks of doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise from abroad, including from less politically or socially stable and/or less developed countries, such as:. •new tariffs or imposition of duties, taxes, and other charges on or costs of relying on imports;. •foreign governmental regulations, including but not limited to changing requirements in course of dealing with regard to product safety, product testing, environmental matters, employment, taxation, and language preference;. •the failure of an unaffiliated manufacturer to comply with local laws or industry standards or ethical business practices, including concerning labor, health and safety, and environmental matters;. •financial, political, or societal instability;. •the rising cost of doing business in particular countries, including China;. •fluctuation of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies;. •pressure from non-governmental organizations;. •customer acceptance of foreign produced merchandise;. •developing countries with less or inadequate infrastructure;. •new legislation relating to import quotas or other restrictions that may limit the import of our merchandise;. •changes to, or repeal of, trade agreements, and/or trade legislation;. •significant delays in the transportation and delivery of cargo due to port security considerations, political unrest, weather conditions or cyber-security events;. 15. Table of Contents. •disruption of imports by labor disputes and local business practices;. •regulations under the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; and. •increased cost of transportation.. In an attempt to mitigate the above risks within any one country, we maintain relationships with many manufacturers in various countries. We cannot predict the effect that this, or the other factors noted above, in any country from which we import products could have on our business. If any of these factors rendered the conduct of business in a particular country undesirable or impractical, or if our current foreign manufacturing sources ceased doing business with us or we cease doing business with them for any reason and we were unable to find alternative sources of supply, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. Our vendor guidelines and code of conduct promote compliance with applicable law and industry standards and ethical business practices.  We monitor our vendor's practices; however, we do not control these independent manufacturers, their labor practices, their health and safety practices, the physical condition of their factories, the integrity of their information or other business systems, or from where they buy their raw materials.  Any violation of labor, health, environmental, safety (e.g. fire or building codes), or other laws, or any deviation of adherence to industry standards, by any of the independent manufacturers we use or any divergence of an independent manufacturer's labor and other practices from standards generally accepted as ethical in the United States and Canada could materially damage our reputation and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. The recently enacted federal tax legislation will have a material effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flow.  Other legislative, regulatory and other actions which might be taken by the current Presidential administration or U.S. Congress are unpredictable and could have unforeseen consequences having a material adverse effect on our business.. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government passed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"the Tax Act\"). The Tax Act significantly effects U.S. corporate taxation. The major implementation provisions of the Tax Act include a one-time transition tax on earnings and profits of foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred and the revaluation of deferred assets and liabilities. As permitted by Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 (\"SAB 118\"), which allows for a measurement period of up to one year after the enactment date of the Tax Act to finalize the recording of the related tax impacts, we have recorded provisional amounts for items that can be reasonably estimated at this time. Other provisions of the Tax Act include a reduction in the U.S. corporate tax rate, certain provisions to broaden the U.S. tax base, including the elimination of the tax deductibility of certain executive performance-based compensation, imposition of a minimum tax on income earned by foreign subsidiaries, and an incentive to encourage the repatriation of foreign sourced income.  While the Company will continue to analyze the Tax Act to determine the full effects of the new law on our financial statements and operations, the impact of the Tax Act may differ from our provisional amounts noted above, possibly materially, due to, among other things, changes in interpretations and assumptions the Company makes, guidance that may be issued, and actions the Company may take as a result of the Tax Act.  These effects could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation, financial condition, and cash flow.. In addition, other legislative, regulatory and other actions continue to be unpredictable and could have unforeseen consequences having a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. We may experience disruptions at ports used to export or import our products from Asia, Africa, and other regions.. We currently ship the vast majority of our products by ocean. If a disruption occurs in the operation of ports through which our products are exported or imported, we and our vendors may have to ship some or all of our products from Asia, Africa, and other regions by air freight or to alternative shipping destinations in the United States. Shipping by air is significantly more expensive than shipping by ocean and our profitability could be materially reduced. Similarly, shipping to alternative destinations in the United States could lead to significantly increased costs for our products. A disruption at ports (domestic or abroad) through which our products are exported or imported could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. We may suffer material adverse business consequences if we are unable to anticipate, identify and respond to merchandise trends, marketing and promotional trends, changes in technology, or customer shopping patterns.. The apparel industry is subject to rapidly changing fashion trends and shifting consumer preferences.  Our success depends in material part on the ability of our design and merchandising teams to anticipate and respond to these changes and our global sourcing team to source from vendors that produce merchandise which has a compelling quality and value proposition for our. 16. Table of Contents. customers.  Our design, manufacturing, and sourcing process generally takes up to one year, during which time fashion trends and consumer preferences may further change.   If we miscalculate either the demand for our merchandise or our customers' tastes or purchasing habits, we may be required to sell a significant amount of unsold inventory at below average gross margin, or below cost, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operation, and cash flows.  Further, our failure to develop and implement successful customer marketing programs, including loyalty and private label credit card programs, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operation, and cash flows.. Fluctuations in the prices of raw materials, labor, energy and services could result in increased product and/or delivery costs.. Increases in the price of raw materials, including cotton and other materials used in the production of fabric, clothing, footwear, and accessories, as well as volatility and increases in labor (including increases in minimum wage as a result of change in laws), energy, shipping, distribution, and other costs, could result in significant increases in operating costs, as well as cost increases for our products and their distribution to our distribution centers, retail locations, international franchise partners and wholesale and retail customers.  To the extent we are unable to offset any such increased costs through value engineering or price increases, such increased costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. Profitability and our reputation could be materially negatively impacted if we do not adequately forecast the demand for our products and, as a result, create significant levels of excess inventory or insufficient levels of inventory.. If we do not adequately forecast demand for our products and inventory purchases, we could experience materially increased costs and lower selling prices due to a need to dispose of excess inventory.  In addition, if we forecast demand for our products that is lower than actual demand, we may experience insufficient levels of inventory, and reputational damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. Our success depends upon the service and capabilities of our management team.  Changes in management or in our organizational structure, particularly in the most senior positions, or inadequate or ineffective management, could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our business and success is materially dependent on retaining members of our senior leadership team, including our chief executive officer, and other key individuals within the organization, to formulate and execute the Company's strategic and business plans.  Leadership changes can be inherently difficult to manage and may cause material disruption to our business or management team.  Senior level management establishes the \"tone at the top\" by which an environment of ethical values, operating style and management philosophy is fostered.  Changes in senior management could lead to an environment that lacks inspiration and/or a lack of commitment by our employees, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. The highly concentrated nature of our stock holdings could facilitate the approval by stockholders of proposals which are contrary to positions supported by our Board of Directors or management.. The top holders of our common stock are predominately large multi-national financial institutions.  The top ten institutional holders own approximately 53% of our outstanding shares of common stock.  These holdings would permit these institutions to approve proposals submitted to the vote of stockholders, which are contrary to positions supported by our Board of Directors or management.. Product liability costs, related claims, and the cost of compliance with consumer product safety laws such as the CPSIA in the U.S. or the CCPSA in Canada or our inability to comply with such laws could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation.. We are subject to regulation by the CPSC in the U.S., Health Canada in Canada, and similar state, provincial, and international regulatory authorities.  Although we test the products sold in our stores, on our website, and to our international franchise partners and our wholesale customers, concerns about product safety, including but not limited to concerns about those manufactured in developing countries, may lead us to recall selected products, either voluntarily, or at the direction of a governmental authority, or may lead to a lack of consumer acceptance or loss of consumer trust.  Product safety concerns, recalls, the failure to properly manage recalls, defects or errors could result in governmental fines, rejection of our products by customers, damage to our reputation, lost sales, product liability litigation and increased costs, any or all of which could harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. The cost of compliance with current requirements and any future requirements of the CPSC, Health Canada or other federal, state, provincial, or international regulatory authorities, consumer product safety laws, including initiatives labeled as \"green chemistry\" and regulatory testing, certification, packaging, labeling and advertising and reporting requirements, or. 17. Table of Contents. changes to existing laws could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.  In addition, any failure to comply with such requirements could result in significant penalties, require us to recall products and harm our reputation, any or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, and financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. We face significant competition in the retail industry, which could negatively impact our business.. The children's apparel retail market is highly competitive and we face heightened price and promotional competition.  We compete in substantially all of our markets with Target Corporation and GapKids, babyGap and Old Navy (each of which is a division of The Gap, Inc.), The Gymboree Corporation, Justice (a division of The Ascena Retail Group, Inc.), Carter's, Inc., J.C. Penney Company, Inc., Kohl's Corporation and other department stores, as well as other discount stores such as Walmart Stores, Inc. We also compete with a wide variety of specialty stores, other national and regional retail chains, catalog companies and e-commerce retailers.  One or more of our competitors are present in virtually all of the areas in which we have stores.  E-commerce only retailers generally do not incur the geographical limitations suffered by traditional brick and mortar stores, giving e-commerce only retailers a competitive advantage to and imposing significant pricing pressure on brick and mortar stores.  In addition, while we view our business as a single omni-channel business, our e-commerce store may divert sales from our brick and mortar stores.  Many of our competitors are larger than us and have access to significantly greater financial, marketing, and other resources than we have.  Increased competition, increased promotional activity, and continuing economic pressure on value seeking consumers could also materially adversely impact our ability to compete successfully.  We may not be able to continue to compete successfully against existing or future competition.. We may be unable to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights.. We believe that our trademarks and service marks are important to our success and our competitive position due to their name recognition with our customers.  We devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our trademarks and service marks on a worldwide basis, including in the countries in which we have business operations or plan to have business operations, including through foreign franchise partners.  We are not aware of any material claims of infringement or material challenges to our right to use any of our trademarks in the United States or Canada.  Nevertheless, the actions we have taken, including to establish and protect our trademarks and service marks, may not be adequate to prevent others from imitating our products or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products.  Also, others may assert proprietary rights in our intellectual property, or may assert that we are engaging in activities that infringe on their own intellectual property, and we may not be able to successfully resolve these types of claims, any of which could have a negative impact on our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.  In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States and we may not be successful in attaining our trademarks in foreign countries where we plan to conduct business.. Because certain of our subsidiaries operate outside of the United States, some of our revenues, product costs and other expenses are subject to foreign economic and currency risks.. We have store operations in Canada and sourcing operations in various locations in greater Asia, primarily Hong Kong, as well as greater Africa, and we have plans to continue to expand our store operations internationally primarily through franchises.. The currency market has seen significant volatility in the value of the U.S. dollar against other foreign currencies.  While our business is primarily conducted in U.S. dollars, we purchase virtually all of our products overseas, and we generate significant revenues in Canada in Canadian dollars.  Cost increases caused by currency exchange rate fluctuations could make our products less competitive or have a material adverse effect on our profitability.  Currency exchange rate fluctuations could also disrupt the business of the third party manufacturers that produce our products, or franchisees that purchase our products, by making their purchases of raw materials or products more expensive and more difficult to finance.. Changes in currency exchange rates affect the U.S. dollar value of the Canadian dollar denominated prices at which our Canadian business sells product.  As a result, fluctuations in exchange rates impact the amount of our reported sales and expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.  Additionally, we have foreign currency denominated receivables and payables that are not hedged against foreign currency fluctuations.  When settled, these receivables and payables could result in significant transaction gains or losses.. 18. Table of Contents. We depend on generating sufficient cash flows, together with our existing cash balances and availability under our credit facility, to fund our ongoing operations, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, and share repurchase program as well as payment of dividends.. Our ability to fund our ongoing operations, planned capital expenditures, share repurchase programs, payment of dividends, and debt service requirements will depend on our ability to generate cash flows.  Our cash flows are dependent on many factors, including:. •seasonal fluctuations in our net sales and net income, which typically are lowest in the second fiscal quarter;. •the timing of inventory purchases for upcoming seasons, particularly in the second fiscal quarter as our sales are lowest and we are purchasing merchandise for the back-to-school season;. •vendor, other supplier and agent terms and related conditions, which may be less favorable to us as a smaller company in comparison to larger companies; and. •general business conditions, economic uncertainty or slowdown, including the continuing weakness in the overall economy affecting our target customer.. Most of these factors are beyond our control.  It is difficult to predict the impact that general economic conditions will continue to have on consumer spending and our financial results.  However, we believe that they could continue to result in reduced spending by our target customer, which would reduce our revenues and our cash flows from operating activities from those that otherwise would have been generated. In addition, steps that we may take to limit cash outlays, such as delaying the purchase of inventory, may not be successful or could delay the arrival of merchandise for future selling seasons, which could reduce our net sales or profitability.  If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows, we may not be able to fund our ongoing operations, planned capital expenditures, share repurchase programs, payment of dividends or debt service requirements and we may be required to seek additional sources of liquidity.. A wide variety of factors can cause a decline in consumer confidence and spending which could have a material adverse effect on the apparel industry and our operating results.. The apparel industry is cyclical in nature and is particularly affected by adverse trends in the general economy.  Purchases of apparel and related merchandise are generally discretionary and therefore tend to decline during recessionary and weak economic periods and also may decline at other times.  This is particularly true with our target customer who is a value conscious, lower to middle income mother buying for infants and children based on need rather than based on fashion, trend or impulse.  High unemployment levels, increases in tax rates, declines in real estate values, availability of credit volatility in the global financial markets and the overall level of consumer confidence have negatively impacted the level of consumer spending for discretionary items.  This has and continues to adversely affect our business as it is dependent on consumer demand for our products.  In North America, we have experienced a decrease in customer traffic, including at shopping malls, and a highly promotional environment.  If the current macroeconomic environment stalls or deteriorates, there will likely be a negative effect on our revenues, operating margins, and earnings which could materially adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. In addition to the economic environment, there are a number of other factors that could contribute to reduced customer traffic and/or reduced levels of consumer confidence and spending, such as actual or potential terrorist acts, including domestic terrorism, natural disasters, severe weather, or political disruption.  These occurrences create significant instability and uncertainty in the United States and elsewhere in the world, causing consumers to defer purchases or to not shop in retail stores in shopping malls, or preventing our suppliers and service providers from providing required products, services or materials to us.  These factors could materially adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. Our profitability may decline as a result of increasing pressure on margins.. The apparel industry is subject to significant pricing pressure caused by many factors, including intense competition, the highly promotional retail environment, and changes in consumer demand. If these factors cause us to reduce our sales prices and we fail to sufficiently reduce our product costs or operating expenses, our profitability could decline. This could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. 19. Table of Contents. Our failure to comply with federal, state or local law, and litigation involving such laws, or changes in such laws, could materially increase our expenses and expose us to legal risks and liability.. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, particularly wage and hour, accessibility, privacy and information security, product safety, and pricing, advertising and marketing laws, we could be subject to legal and reputational risk, government enforcement action and class action civil litigation, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.  Changes in regulation and how regulations are enforced, such as taxes, privacy and information security, product safety, trade, consumer credit, pricing, advertising, and marketing, healthcare or environmental protection, among others, could cause our expenses to increase, margins to decrease or tax deductible expenses to decrease. Changes in tax laws, the interpretation of existing laws, or our failure to sustain our reporting positions on examination could materially adversely affect our effective tax rate and/or subject us to significant penalties and interest.. Legislative or regulatory changes that impact our relationship with our workforce, such as minimum wage requirements or overtime regulation and other wage and hour regulations, could increase our expenses and adversely affect our operations. None of our employees are currently represented by a collective bargaining agreement. However, from time to time there have been efforts to organize our employees at various locations. There is no assurance that our employees will not unionize in the future.. Legal and regulatory actions are inherent in our business and could materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial position or harm our businesses or reputation.. We are, and in the future may be, subject to legal and regulatory actions in the ordinary course of our business.  Some of these proceedings have been, and in the future may be, brought on behalf of various alleged classes of complainants.  The plaintiffs may seek large and/or indeterminate amounts, including treble, punitive, or exemplary damages in these proceedings.  Substantial legal liability could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows or cause us material reputational harm, which in turn could materially harm our business prospects.. Our litigation and regulatory enforcement and other matters are subject to many uncertainties, and given their complexity and scope, their outcome cannot be predicted.  Our reserves for litigation and regulatory and enforcement matters may prove to be inadequate.  Litigation and regulatory and enforcement matters could materially adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.  In light of the unpredictability of our litigation and regulatory and enforcement matters, it is also possible that in certain cases an ultimately unfavorable resolution of one or more pending litigation or regulatory and enforcement matters could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. If our landlords should suffer financial difficulty or if we are unable to successfully negotiate acceptable lease terms, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position results of operations and cash flows.. If any of our landlords or substantial tenants, such as anchor department stores, should suffer financial difficulty, it could render our landlords unable to fulfill their duties under our lease agreements and/or could render certain malls to experience reduced customer traffic.  Such duties include providing a sufficient number of mall co-tenants, common area maintenance, utilities, and payment of real estate taxes.  While we have certain remedies under our lease agreements, the loss of business that could result if a shopping center should close or if customer traffic were to significantly decline as a result of lost tenants or improper care of the facilities could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. The leases for a substantial number of our retail stores come up for renewal each year.  If we are unable to continue to negotiate acceptable lease and renewal terms, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. In addition to the changes effected by the Tax Act, other tax matters could impact our results of operations and financial condition.. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and foreign jurisdictions, including Canada and Hong Kong.  Our provision for income taxes and cash tax liability in the future could be adversely affected by numerous factors including, but not limited to, income before taxes being lower than anticipated in countries with lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries with higher statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, and changes in tax laws, such as the Tax Act, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof, which could adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows in future periods.  In addition, we are subject to the examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service, Canada Revenue Agency, and other tax authorities.  We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes.  There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. 20. Table of Contents. Legislative actions and new accounting pronouncements could result in us having to increase our administrative expenses to remain compliant and could have other material adverse effects.. In order to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform, and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, future accounting guidance or disclosure requirements by the SEC, future guidance that may come from the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (\"PCAOB\"), or future changes in listing standards by the Nasdaq Global Select Market, we may be required to enhance our internal controls, hire additional personnel and utilize additional outside legal, accounting and advisory services, all of which could cause our general and administrative expenses to increase materially.. Changes to existing tax or other laws, authoritative guidance and regulations may materially adversely impact our financial statements. The FASB is continuing its convergence efforts with its international counterpart, the International Accounting Standards Board, to converge U.S. and International standards into one uniform set of accounting rules, including the adoption of FASB ASC 606--Revenue from Contracts with Customers and FASB ASC 842--Leases.  The effect of changes in tax and other laws or changing accounting rules on our financial statements could be significant.  Changes to our financial position, results of operations or cash flows could impact our debt covenant ratios or a lender's perception of our financial statements causing an adverse impact on our ability to obtain credit, or could adversely impact investor analyses and perceptions of our business causing the market value of our stock to decrease.  In addition, any changes in the current accounting rules, including legislative and other proposals, could increase the expenses we report under U.S. GAAP and have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. Any disruption in, or changes to, our consumer credit arrangements, including our private label credit card agreement, may adversely affect the ability of our customers to obtain consumer credit.. Credit card operations are subject to numerous federal and state laws that impose disclosure and other requirements upon the origination, servicing and enforcement of credit accounts and limitations on the maximum amount of finance charges that may be charged by a credit provider.  Additionally, during periods of increasing consumer credit delinquencies, financial institutions may reexamine their lending practices and procedures.  There can be no assurance that the delinquencies being experienced by providers of consumer credit generally would not cause providers of third party credit offered by us to decrease the availability of, or increase the cost of such credit.. Any of the above risks, individually or in aggregation, could have a material adverse effect on the way we conduct business and could materially negatively impact our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. Our share price may be volatile.. Our common stock is quoted on the Nasdaq Global Select Market.  Stock markets in general have experienced, and are likely to continue to experience, price and volume fluctuations, which could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock without regard to our operating performance.  In addition, we believe that factors such as quarterly fluctuations in our financial results, our Comparable Retail Sales results, other risk factors identified here, announcements by other retailers, the overall economy, legislative, regulatory and other actions resulting from the current Presidential administration or the composition of the Congress, and the geopolitical environment could individually or in aggregation cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially.. Declarations of quarterly cash dividends, and the establishment of future record and payment dates, are at the discretion of our Board of Directors based on a number of factors, including future financial performance, general business and market conditions, and other investment priorities.  Any reduction or discontinuance by us of the payment of quarterly cash dividends could cause the market price of our common stock to decline.. Acts of terrorism, effects of war, natural disasters, other catastrophes or political unrest could have a material adverse effect on our business.. The threat or actual acts of terrorism, including U.S. domestic terrorism, continue to be a risk to the U.S. and global economies.  Terrorism and potential military responses, political unrest, natural disasters, pandemics or other health issues have disrupted and could disrupt commerce, and impact our ability to operate our stores in affected areas, import our products from foreign countries or provide critical functions necessary to the operation of our business.  A disruption of commerce, or an inability to recover critical functions from such a disruption, could interfere with the production, shipment or receipt of our merchandise in a timely manner or increase our costs to do so, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.  In addition, any of the above disruptions could undermine consumer confidence, which could negatively impact consumer spending patterns or customer traffic, and thus have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. 21. Table of Contents"
