[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.. An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this report, before making an investment decision. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. You should read the section entitled “Special Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements” above for a discussion of what types of statements are forward-looking statements, as well as the significance of such statements in the context of this report.. 24. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS. The biopharmaceutical industry in China is strictly regulated and changes in such regulations, including banning or limiting plasma products, may have a material adverse effect on our operations, revenues and profitability.. The biopharmaceutical industry in China is strictly regulated by the government. The regulatory regime regulates the process of administrative approval of medicine and its production, and includes laws and regulations such as the PRC Pharmaceutical Law, the Implementation Rules on the PRC Pharmaceutical Law and the Regulations on the Administration of Blood Products. These laws and regulations require entities producing plasma products to comply strictly with certain hygienic standards and specifications promulgated by the government. In the event that a plasma product is discovered to be not compliant with the government’s hygienic standards and specifications, the health department may revoke its approval of such plasma product, or otherwise limit the use of such plasma product. Changes in these laws and regulations, including banning or limiting plasma products, could have a material adverse effect on our operations, revenues and profitability.. If the biopharmaceutical products we sell are found to be contaminated, our operation, revenues and profitability would be severely and adversely affected and we may be subject to civil and criminal liabilities.. The principal raw material of our existing and planned biopharmaceutical products is human source plasma, which, due to its unique nature, is subject to risks of contaminations and blood-borne diseases. In addition, current technology cannot eliminate entirely the risk of biological hazards inherent in plasma that are not currently known or for which screens are not currently commercially available, which could result in a widespread epidemic due to blood infusion. If any of our human donors is infected with diseases, then the plasma from such donor may be infected. Although we pre-screen all donors in order to ensure that they are not infected with HIV and hepatitis C and have not contracted liver disease, screening tests may fail to identify and exclude from our supply the plasma from infected donors due to technical limitation and human errors. In addition, we purchase source plasma and plasma pastes from Xinjiang Deyuan. Although we perform screening tests on the purchased plasma before putting it into production, we may fail to identify contaminated plasma from Xinjiang Deyuan due to the technical limitation and/or human errors. If any contaminated plasma is not appropriately screened out, our entire plasma supply for the relevant plasma collection station may become contaminated. If the plasma from our collection or purchased from Xinjiang Deyuan is contaminated and we sell biopharmaceutical products made from such plasma, we could be subject to civil liability from suits brought by consumers. Further, we may lose our registration and have criminal liability if we are found by the government to have been criminally negligent. If this occurs, our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected.. If our supply of quality plasma is interrupted, our results of operations and profitability will be adversely affected. In addition, if we experience any shortage of raw materials in the future, we may be unable to proceed with our long-term business plan and we may be forced to curtail or cease our operations or further business expansion.. The production of plasma products relies on the supply of plasma of suitable quality. For 2016, 2015 and 2014, the cost of plasma we used for production accounted for approximately 81.5%, 82.3% and 80.1%, respectively, of total production cost. The supply and market prices of plasma may be adversely affected by factors such as heightened or new regulatory restrictions, higher living standards or outbreaks of diseases, any of which would affect our costs of production. We may not be able to pass on any resulting increase in costs to our customers and therefore any substantial fluctuation in supply or market prices of plasma may adversely affect our results of operations and profitability.. 25. Our production volume, capacity utilization and future expansion are affected by a contraction in the supply of raw materials, especially plasma. In addition to the plasma collected from our own plasma collection stations, we also outsource plasma from Xinjiang Deyuan pursuant to a cooperation agreement entered into in August 2015. Under this cooperation agreement, Xinjiang Deyuan agreed to sell to us no less than 500 tonnes of source plasma in batches over the next three years. We cannot assure you, however, that Xinjiang Deyuan will always deliver the source plasma on schedule or such plasma will always pass our quality inspection. If we experience any shortage of plasma supply or fail to secure sufficient plasma supply for our production, we may not be able to fully utilize our production capacity or proceed with our expansion plans.. We may not be able to carry on our business if we lose any of the required permits and licenses.. We and Huitian are required to obtain from various PRC governmental authorities certain permits and licenses, including permits for pharmaceutical manufacturing and GMP certificates for each of our plants, as well as pharmaceutical distribution permits.. Each of the production facilities operated by us and Huitian is required to obtain a GMP certificate for its pharmaceutical production activities. In February 2011, the CFDA enacted the new GMP standard, which has significantly increased standards for quality control, documentation, and overall manufacturing processes that applied to each of the production facilities operated by us and Huitian as of December 31, 2013. In order for us to meet the new GMP standard, we have upgraded the related production facilities of Shandong Taibang and Guizhou Taibang, which obtained the renewed GMP certificates and resumed commercial production of plasma products in June 2013 and March 2014, respectively. Huitian suspended its production in late 2013 and obtained the GMP certification for its new plasma production facility in Xi’an in February 2016 and commenced commercial production thereafter.. We have also obtained permits and licenses and GMP certificates required for the manufacturing and sales of our products. Our permits and licenses are subject to periodic renewal and/or reassessment by the relevant PRC governmental authorities, and the compliance standards may be subject to change from time to time. We intend to apply for the renewal of such permits and licenses when required by applicable laws and regulations. However, we cannot guarantee that we may renew such permits and licenses in a timely manner, or at all. If we are unable to renew our permits and licenses or fail an inspection which would impair our permits and licenses, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.. In addition, any changes in compliance standards, or any new laws or regulations that may prohibit or restrict our business activities or increase our compliance costs may adversely affect our operations and profitability. For example, we expect our on-going compliance cost to increase under the new GMP standard as compared to the previous standard. As a result, our business and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected.. 26. We may fail to obtain, maintain or renew required licenses and permits for our plasma collection stations. In addition, if we fail to adequately monitor our plasma collection stations, follow proper procedures or comply with safety requirements, we may be subject to sanctions by the government, civil and criminal liability.. We currently operate 12 plasma collection stations (including one branch collection facility) through Shandong Taibang and two plasma collection stations through Guizhou Taibang. Huitian, a company in which we hold a minority interest, operates three plasma collection stations in Shaanxi Province. To enable growth in our sales, we are seeking opportunities to build more plasma collection stations. In October 2014, we received the regulatory approval to build two new plasma collection stations in Xinglong and Daming Counties, respectively, in Hebei Province. In June 2016, we received the operating permit for and commenced operations at our new plasma collection station in Xinglong County. In September 2015, we received the regulatory approval to build a new branch collection facility to operate under our Ningyang plasma collection station in Shandong Province. We obtained the operating permit for this new branch collection facility in October 2015 and commenced plasma collection thereafter. In December 2016, we received the regulatory approvals to build a new plasma collection station in Ju County in Shandong Province and to build a branch collection facility in Feicheng County to operate under our Ningyang plasma collection station in Shandong Province. The operation of plasma collection stations, however, is highly regulated and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain, maintain and renew the required licenses and permits for existing and new plasma collection stations in desirable locations or in a timely manner, if at all. For example, we have experienced difficulties and delays in obtaining and/or renewing the business licenses and collection permits for a new plasma collection station in Pubei, Guangxi Province and five existing plasma collection stations we acquired in Guizhou Province. While we monitor our plasma intake procedures through frequent unscheduled inspections of our stations, there remain risks that our plasma collection stations may fail to comply with hygiene and procedural requirements for plasma screening, collection, storage and tracking. If we fail to comply with any of these requirements, we may lose our plasma collection permits or incur criminal liability if we are found by the government to have been criminally negligent. In the case of plasma contamination, we may also be subject to civil liability from suits brought by consumers of our biopharmaceutical products. In addition, failure to comply with hygiene and procedural requirements may cause harm to donors, who may contract diseases from other donors, among other things. Any such incident may subject us to government sanctions, civil or criminal liabilities. If any of these events were to occur, our business, reputation and prospects would be materially and adversely affected.. Our operations, sales, profit and cash flow will be adversely affected if our plasma products fail to pass inspection in a timely manner.. The PRC government inspects each batch of our plasma products before we can ship it to our customers. The CFDA has quality standards which require the regulators to assess, among other things, the appearance, packing capacity, thermal stability, pH value, protein content and purity of the product. We must strictly comply with relevant rules and regulations throughout the lifecycle of each product including plasma collection, delivery, production and packaging. Government regulators typically take more than a month to inspect one batch of plasma products. The process begins when the regulator randomly selects samples of our products and delivers them to the PRC National Institute for the Control of Pharmaceutical and Biological Products, or NICBPB, for testing, and the process ends when the products are given final approval by NICBPB. In the event that the regulators delay the approval of or reject our products or change the requirements such that we are unable to comply, our operations, sales, profit and cash flow will be adversely affected.. Current or worsening economic conditions may adversely affect our business and financial condition.. We currently generate sufficient operating cash flows which provide us with significant working capital. However, any uncertainty arising out of economic conditions may affect our ability to manage normal relationships with our customers, suppliers and creditors and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, or those of our customers, suppliers and creditors. Current or worsening economic conditions may adversely affect the ability of our customers to pay for our products, and curtail their spending on healthcare generally. This could result in a decrease in the demand for our products, declining cash flows, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. These conditions may also adversely affect certain of our suppliers, which could cause a disruption in our production capacities. Such reductions and disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business operations.. 27. Our inability to successfully research and develop new biopharmaceutical products could have an adverse effect on our future growth.. We believe that the successful development of biopharmaceutical products can be affected by many factors. Products that appear to be promising in the early phases of research and development may fail to be commercialized for various reasons, including the failure to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals. In addition, the research and development cycle for any new medicine is a relatively lengthy process. In our experience, the process of conducting research and various tests on new products before obtaining a new medicine certificate from the CFDA and subsequent procedures may take approximately three to five years. We cannot assure you that our future research and development projects will be successful or that they will be completed within the anticipated time frame or budget. Also, we cannot guarantee that we will receive the necessary approvals from relevant authorities for the production of our newly developed products. Even if such products could be successfully commercialized, we cannot assure you that they will be accepted by the market as anticipated.. As mandated by a CFDA notice promulgated on July 22, 2015, all pharmaceutical enterprises that are in the process of registration application are required to inspect the data from the clinical trials and report the inspection results to the CFDA and to withdraw the registration application should any deficiency surface from such inspection.. Since July 22, 2015, 1,622 manufacturing certificates have been included in the self-inspection list, among which\t67% submitted the data, 20% withdrew, and 12% asked to waive the clinical trials.. The three typical reasons for application withdrawals include:. ·insufficiency of application documents;. ·quality issue uncovered from trial data;. ·voluntary withdrawal to improve the quality of clinical trial data.. We withdrew the registration application for human hepatitis B immunoglobulin (pH4) for intravenous injection as a result of our self-inspection in December 2015 with the aim to improve the quality of clinical trial data.. Given the uncovered quality issues and rising costs for clinical trials, certain small drug manufacturers may face increased difficulty in submitting new registration applications, which could accelerate the CFDA’s overall review process. We cannot assure you, however, that our registration applications will benefit from this new CFDA practice. Our new product launches might be delayed or aborted due to our withdrawal in December 2015 and any forced or voluntary withdrawal of our other products in the process of registration application in the future should quality issues be uncovered from the inspection of the relevant clinical trial data. Such delay or abortion could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and prospects.. 28. We do not have discretion to increase the prices of certain of our products, which are subject to the regional government tendering mechanism.. Prices of certain pharmaceutical products were subject to various price-related regulations. Effective on June 1, 2015, the NDRC removed the retail price ceilings for all drug products (except for anesthetics and category I antipsychotics) in China. Even after the NDRC removed the price ceiling, our pricing is still subject to provincial and local tendering mechanisms where we compete with other manufacturers in the price of plasma products. In 2016, 31 provinces/regions/municipalities in China initiated a new round of tenders. For our plasma products, tetanus immunoglobulin, Factor VIII and PCC are included on the life-saving EDL  in most Chinese provinces, for which drug procurement was prioritized and the hospitals are allowed to directly purchase drugs from manufacturers through an on-line procurement process. For products like albumin and IVIG, most provinces adopted regular tendering process that requires manufacturers to compete with other suppliers in both quality and price. To date, most provinces have not completed the tendering. We expect that most of the provinces, which accounted for the majority of our product sales, will finish their tenders in the first half of 2017. Even after the official tendering, there might be post-tender negotiations. Tenders across different provinces with on-line price disclosure will help narrow the differences in tenders among different provinces and make the practice more uniform across the country, which will increase the price pressure since provinces intend to benchmark to the lowest nationwide prices.. In addition, retail prices of pharmaceutical products fully or partially covered under the national insurance system are also affected by the reimbursement ceilings set out in the NDRL, which may be adjusted by the NDRC from time to time. The new edition of NDRL was launched on February 21, 2017. The hospitals as participants of the national insurance program are pressured not to sell the products to patients at prices substantially exceeding such reimbursement ceilings. This in turn puts pressure on the manufacturers’ pricing of the relevant products. Seven of our principal products (namely human albumin, IVIG, human rabies immunoglobulin, human tetanus immunoglobulin, factor VIII, PCC and human immunoglobulin) are included in the NDRL and are affected by the reimbursement ceilings. Two other principal products (namely placenta polypeptide and human hepatitis B immunoglobulin), although not included in the NDRL, are also subject to tender price ceilings in certain PRC provinces. See “Business — Regulation” for further details.. Because of the tender process and the reimbursement ceilings for certain of our products, we do not have discretion to increase the prices we charge our customers and distributors for such products above certain levels. We may not be able to increase our prices even if the cost of manufacturing our products increases as a result of increases in the cost of raw materials or other costs, and, our revenue and profitability would be adversely affected. If the margin of any of these products becomes prohibitively low, we may stop manufacturing such product, which may further adversely affect our revenue and profitability.. Our ability to increase the prices of our products is limited by general market conditions and intense competition.. Our pricing practices may also be affected by the general market conditions and intense competition. To the extent the demand for our products declines or competition intensifies, we may decide to respond by reducing our prices in order to capture the declining market demand and maintain the competitiveness of our products. See also “—We are subject to intense competition and may encounter increased competition from both local and overseas pharmaceutical enterprises if PRC regulators relax the approval process for plasma products or international trade restrictions. A change in our competitive environment could adversely affect our profitability and prospects” below. If the margin of any of our products becomes prohibitively low, we may stop manufacturing such product, which may further adversely affect our revenue and profitability.. 29. If reimbursement or other payment for our current or future products is reduced or modified in the PRC, including through the implementation of government-sponsored healthcare reform or other similar actions, cost containment measures, or changes to policies with respect to pricing, then our business could suffer.. Sales of our products depend, in part, on the extent to which the costs of our products are paid by public payers. These public payers mainly consist of local governments which reimburse the medicines covered by the NIC. The local governments update the NIC on a regularly basis and may remove certain medicines from the NIC. These public payers may also reduce the reimbursement amounts for certain medicines under the NIC. These measures by local governments may limit, reduce or eliminate payments for our products and adversely affect both pricing flexibility and demand for our products.. Legislation and regulations affecting reimbursement for our products may change at any time and in ways that may be adverse to us. We cannot predict the impact of these pressures and initiatives, or any negative effects of any additional regulations that may affect our business.. Some of our owned or leased properties have title defects or non-compliance, which could adversely affect our business operations.. Some of our owned or leased properties have title defects or non-compliance. For example, we use properties built on collectively owned rural land for one of our plasma collection stations. We are also in the process of obtaining the property ownership certificate for another one of our plasma collection stations. Although such title defects and non-compliance have not adversely affected our business operations, we cannot assure you that we will be able to rectify such defects and non-compliance in a timely manner or at reasonable costs, if at all. For example, under PRC laws, collectively owned rural land may not be used for commercial purposes and we may be required to vacate and seek other space to house our collection facilities. For the collection station built on collectively owned rural land, under the lease agreement for the collectively owned rural land among us, the local government and the economic collective which owns the land, the economic collective is required to assist us in securing legal rights to use such land. If the economic collective fails to perform its obligations under the lease agreement, or the lease agreement is deemed to be void, voidable or otherwise unenforceable, or if ownership disputes or claims regarding the land otherwise arise, we may be required to relocate our collection station. Any disputes or claims relating to our owned or leased properties or land or any efforts in securing alternative sites and properties could divert our resources and management’s attention from our regular business operations. In addition, we may not be able to secure alternative sites and properties, if required, in a timely manner or at reasonable costs, which could adversely affect our business operations.. Our financial position and operations may be materially and adversely affected if our product liability insurance does not sufficiently cover our liabilities.. Under current PRC laws, manufacturers and vendors of defective products in China may incur liability for loss and injury caused by such products. Pursuant to the General Principles of the Civil Law of the PRC, or the PRC Civil Law, which became effective in 1987, a defective product that causes property damage or physical injury to any person may subject the manufacturer or vendor of such product to civil liability.. The Product Quality Law of the PRC, or the Product Quality Law, was enacted in 1993 and revised in 2000. The Product Quality Law was enacted to protect the rights and interests of end-users and consumers and to strengthen the supervision and control of the quality of products. Under the Product Quality Law, manufacturers who produce defective products may be subject to fines and production suspension, and in severe cases, be subject to criminal liability and may have their business licenses revoked.. 30. The PRC Law on the Protection of the Rights and Interests of Consumers, or the Consumers’ Rights Law, was enacted in 1993 to further protect the legal rights and interests of consumers in connection with the purchase or use of goods and services. All businesses, including our business, must observe and comply with the Consumers’ Rights Law.. The Tort Liability Law of the PRC was enacted in December 2009, which imposes liability on manufacturers for damages caused by defects in their products. If the defects are caused by third parties such as transporters or storekeepers, manufactures may be entitled to claim for indemnification or contribution from such third parties for making compensation to the consumers.. We maintain two product liability insurance policies for sales in China for Shandong Taibang and Guizhou Taibang’s products in the amount of $2.9 million (RMB20 million) each. If our products are found to be defective and our insurance coverage is insufficient to cover a successful claim against us, our financial position and operations may be materially and adversely affected.. Product liability claims or product recalls involving our products could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our business exposes us to the risk of product liability claims that are inherent in the manufacturing, distribution and sale of plasma products. Plasma is a biological substance that is capable of transmitting viruses and pathogens, whether known or unknown. Therefore, our plasma and plasma products, if not properly collected, tested, pathogen-inactivated, processed, stored or transported, could cause serious disease and possibly death to patients. Further, there are viral and other infections of plasma which may escape detection using current testing methods and which are not susceptible to inactivation methods. Any infection of disease by persons using our products could result in claims against us. Since our establishment in 2002, we have been subject to four lawsuits filed by patients who were treated with our products and received blood and/or plasma transfusions. In three of these cases, we were ordered to contribute a portion of the compensation for the patients even though the courts did not find that our products were defective or caused the patients’ illness. The required contribution by us was immaterial in these three cases. The fourth case is pending in an ongoing litigation, which we are vigorously defending. We cannot assure you that there will be no future claims against us or that we will always succeed in defending against such claims. Furthermore, the presence of a defect in a product could require us to carry out a recall of such product.. A product liability claim, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, or a product recall could result in substantial financial losses, civil and criminal liabilities, administrative sanctions, revocation of business and product permits and licenses, negative reputational repercussions and an inability to retain customers. If our products are found to be defective and our insurance coverage is insufficient to cover a successful claim against us, our financial position and operations may be materially and adversely affected.. We are subject to intense competition and may encounter increased competition from both local and overseas pharmaceutical enterprises if PRC regulators relax the approval process for plasma products or international trade restrictions. A change in our competitive environment could adversely affect our profitability and prospects.. We face intense competition from local and foreign entities that manufacture and sell products that compete with ours in China. These competitors may have more capital, better research and development resources, expanded manufacturing and marketing capabilities and more experience than we do. The plasma-based biopharmaceutical manufacturing industry in China is highly regulated, and although we believe that compliance with the regulatory requirements pose a competitive barrier to enter into the Chinese market, over time, however, there may be new entrants. If the government relaxes these restrictions and allows more competitors to enter into the market, these competitors may have more capital, better research and development resources, more manufacturing and marketing capability and experience than us. Our operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected if competition intensifies, competitors reduce prices to gain market share, or competitors develop new products having comparable medicinal applications or therapeutic effects which are more effective or less costly than ours.. 31. In addition, we also face competition from imported products. Since 2009, there has been a substantial increase in volume of imported human albumin in China, which competes in domestic human albumin market. In addition, we compete with foreign biopharmaceutical manufacturers that set up production facilities in China and compete directly with us. The increased supply of both domestic and foreign biopharmaceutical products in China may result in lower sales or lower prices for our products. We cannot assure you that we will remain competitive or that our profitability and prospects will not be adversely affected.. We depend heavily on key personnel, and turnover of key employees and senior management could harm our business.. Our success, to a certain extent, is attributable to the expertise and experience of our senior management and key research and technical personnel who carry out key functions in our operation. If we lose the service of any of our senior management or key research or technical personnel or fail to attract additional personnel with suitable experience and qualification, our business operations and research capability may be adversely affected.. We have a secondment agreement with the Shandong Institute, which is expected to terminate upon its future privatization, for certain of our employees. If the secondment agreement is breached or terminated, it could have an adverse effect on our operations and on our financial results.. Shandong Institute provided us with 48 of our employees, including certain key management personnel, out of our total of approximately 1,799 employees as of December 31, 2016, pursuant to a secondment agreement dated October 28, 2002, between Shandong Taibang and the Shandong Institute. Pursuant to the secondment agreement, we are responsible for the salaries of these employees, as well as for their social benefits such as insurance. Our secondment agreement with the Shandong Institute will expire on the earlier of October 2032 or the privatization of the Shandong Institute, which was originally scheduled to occur before the end of 2008. However, the privatization of the Shandong Institute has been delayed indefinitely due to delay by the Shandong Department of Health in implementing the privatization plan. Upon expiration or termination of the secondment agreement, we plan to hire the seconded employees directly. However, we cannot assure you that all of the employees will accept our employment offers at that time. Guangli Pang, Shandong Taibang’s chief executive officer is employed through the secondment agreement. Although none of our seconded employees have indicated that they do not plan to continue working for us after the privatization, if the secondment agreement is terminated or expires and we are unable to hire those employees or their replacements on time, our operations, as well as our financial results, may be materially and adversely affected.. Future acquisitions may have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business.. Selective acquisitions form part of our strategy to further expand our business. If we are presented with appropriate opportunities, we may acquire additional companies, products or technologies. Future acquisitions and the subsequent integration of new companies into ours would require significant attention from our management. The diversion of our management’s attention and any difficulties encountered in any integration process could have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. Future acquisitions would expose us to potential risks, including risks associated with the integration of new operations, technologies and personnel, unforeseen or hidden liabilities, the diversion of resources from our existing businesses and technologies, the inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset the costs and expenses of acquisitions, and potential loss of, or harm to, relationships with employees, customers and suppliers as a result.. 32. We may lose our competitive advantage and our operations may suffer if we fail to prevent the loss or misappropriation of, or disputes over, our intellectual property or proprietary information.. We regard our intellectual property, particularly our patents and trade secrets, to be of considerable value and importance to our business and our success. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality agreements to protect our intellectual property rights. Failure to protect our intellectual property rights could harm our brands and our reputation, and adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. Further, enforcing or defending our intellectual property rights, including our patents and trade secrets, could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources.. As of December 31, 2016, we held 59 issued patents and had 10 pending patent applications in China for certain manufacturing processes and packaging designs. We may not be able to successfully obtain the approval of the PRC authorities for our patent applications. As of December 31, 2016, we also had eight trademarks registered in China.. While we are not aware of any infringement on our intellectual property and we have not been notified by any third party that we are infringing on their intellectual property, our ability to compete successfully and to achieve future revenue growth will depend, in significant part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technologies and operate without infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary technologies is difficult and expensive. The steps we have taken may not be adequate to prevent unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights.. The legal regime in China for the protection of intellectual property rights is still at its early stage of development. Despite many laws and regulations promulgated and other efforts made by China over the years to tighten up its regulation and protection of intellectual property rights, private parties may not enjoy intellectual property rights in China to the same extent as they would in many more developed countries, including the United States, and the enforcement of such laws and regulations in China has not achieved the levels reached in those countries. The administrative agencies and the court system in China are not well-equipped to deal with violations or handle the nuances and complexities between compliant technological innovation and noncompliant infringement.. We also rely on confidentiality agreements with our management and employees to protect our confidential proprietary information. However, the protection of our intellectual property may be compromised as a result of:. ·departure of any of our management members or employees in possession of our confidential proprietary information;. ·breach by such departing management member or employee of his or her confidentiality and non-disclosure undertaking to us;. ·infringement by others of our proprietary information and intellectual property rights; or. ·refusal by relevant regulatory authorities to approve our patent or trademark applications.. 33. Any of these events or occurrences may have a material adverse effect on our operations.. We cannot assure you that the steps taken by us to protect our intellectual property rights will be adequate or that third parties will not infringe or misappropriate our patents, trademarks, confidential proprietary information or similar proprietary rights. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights and the outcome of any such litigation may not be in our favor. Given the relative unpredictability of China’s legal system and potential difficulties enforcing a court judgment in China, we cannot guarantee that we would be able to halt any unauthorized use of our intellectual property through litigation in a timely manner.. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that other parties will not assert infringement claims against us, and we may have to pursue litigation against other parties to assert our rights. Any such claim or litigation could be costly and we may lack the resources required to defend against such claims. If we are unsuccessful in defending against such infringement claims, we may be required to pay damages, modify our products or suspend the production and sale of such products. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to modify our products on commercially reasonable terms.. Finally, any event that would jeopardize our proprietary rights or any claims of infringement by third parties could have a material adverse effect on our ability to market or sell our brands, and profitably exploit our products.. A disruption in the supply of utilities, fire or other calamity at our manufacturing plant would disrupt production of our products and adversely affect our business.. Our products are manufactured at our production facilities located in Tai’an, Shandong Province and Guiyang, Guizhou Province in China. While we have not in the past experienced any calamities which disrupted production, any disruption in the supply of utilities, in particular, electricity or power supply, or any outbreak of fire, flood or other calamity resulting in significant damage at our facilities would severely affect our production and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We maintain insurance policies covering losses with respect to damages to our properties and products. We do not have insurance coverage for inventories of raw materials or business interruption. We cannot assure you that our insurance would be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses.. If we do not maintain strong financial controls, investor confidence in us may decline and our stock price may decline as a result.. As required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the SEC adopted rules requiring every public company to include a management report on such company’s internal control over financial reporting in its annual report, which must also contain management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our company’s internal control over financial reporting. In addition, the independent registered public accounting firm auditing the financial statements must also attest to the operating effectiveness of our company’s internal controls.. 34. A report of our management and attestation by our independent registered public accounting firm is included in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016. Our management has concluded that our internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2016 were effective. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, material weakness in our internal controls. For example, we identified material weaknesses related to review controls on the accounting for income taxes and derivative instrument valuation as described under Item 9A of our annual report on Form 10-K for year ended December 31, 2010, which were subsequently remediated in 2011 as described under Item 9A of our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011. However, we cannot guarantee that these remedies will continue to be effective. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could result in us not being able to accurately report our financial results, prevent or detect fraud or provide timely and reliable financial and other information pursuant to the reporting obligations we have as a public company, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. This could reduce investors’ confidence in our reported financial information, which in turn could result in lawsuits being filed against us by our stockholders, otherwise harm our reputation or negatively affect the trading price of our common stock.. RISKS RELATING TO DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA. Changes in China’s political or economic situation could harm us and our operating results.. Economic reforms adopted by the PRC government have had a positive effect on the economic development of the country. The reformed economic infrastructure and legal systems, however, may be subject to abrupt adjustments by the government. These adjustments, especially in the following areas, could either benefit or damage our operations and profitability:. ·Level of government involvement in the economy;. ·Control of foreign exchange;. ·Methods of allocating resources;. ·International trade restrictions; and. ·International conflict.. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most member countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or the OECD, in many ways. For example, state-owned enterprises still constitute a large portion of China’s economy, and weak corporate governance and the lack of a flexible currency exchange policy still prevail in China. As a result of these differences, we may not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected if the PRC economy was similar to those of the OECD member countries.. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could limit the legal protections available to you and us.. We conduct substantially all of our business through our operating subsidiaries in China. Our operating subsidiaries are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investments in China and, in particular, laws applicable to foreign-invested enterprises. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes, and prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, a series of new PRC laws and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since the PRC legal system continues to evolve rapidly, the interpretations of many laws, regulations, and rules are not always uniform, and enforcement of these laws, regulations, and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to you and us. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention.. 35. You may have difficulty enforcing judgments against us.. Most of our assets are located outside of the United States and most of our current operations are conducted in China. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States and substantially all the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon our PRC operations and these persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce in U.S. courts judgments on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors.. There is also uncertainty as to whether the PRC courts would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts. Our counsel as to PRC law has advised us that although recognition and enforcement of foreign judgments are provided for under the PRC Civil Procedures Law, recognition and enforcement of a foreign judgment by PRC courts depend on treaties or reciprocity between China and the country where the judgment is made. China does not have any treaties or other arrangements with the United States that provide for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of U.S. judgments. In addition, according to the PRC Civil Procedures Law, PRC courts will not enforce a foreign judgment against us or our directors and officers if they decide that the judgment violates basic principles of PRC law or national sovereignty, security, or the public interest. So it is uncertain whether a PRC court would enforce a judgment rendered by a court in the United States.. The PRC government exerts substantial influence over the manner in which we must conduct our business activities.. The PRC government has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the PRC economy through regulation and state ownership. Our ability to operate in China may be harmed by changes in its laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, property, and other matters. We believe that our operations in China are in material compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, the central or local governments of the jurisdictions in which we operate may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures and efforts on our part to ensure our compliance with such regulations or interpretations.. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy and any regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in Chinese properties or joint ventures.. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our sales effectively.. Substantially all of our sales are settled in RMB, and any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use revenue generated in RMB to fund any future business activities outside China or other payments in U.S. dollars. Although the PRC government introduced regulations in 1996 to allow greater convertibility of the RMB for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain, including primarily the restriction that foreign-invested enterprises may only buy, sell or remit foreign currencies after providing valid commercial documents at those banks in China authorized to conduct foreign exchange business. In addition, conversion of RMB for capital account items, including direct investments and loans, is subject to governmental approval and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign exchange accounts for capital account items. We cannot be certain that the PRC regulatory authorities will not impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of the RMB.. 36. Fluctuations in exchange rates could adversely affect our business and the value of our securities.. The value of our common stock will be indirectly affected by the foreign exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and RMB and between those currencies and other currencies in which our sales may be denominated. Appreciation or depreciation in the value of the RMB relative to the U.S. dollar would affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business or results of operations. Fluctuations in the exchange rate will also affect the relative value of any dividends we issue that will be exchanged into U.S. dollars, as well as earnings from, and the value of, any U.S. dollar-denominated investments we make in the future.. Since July 2005, RMB has no longer been pegged to U.S. dollars. Although the People’s Bank of China regularly intervenes in the foreign exchange market to prevent significant short-term fluctuations in the exchange rate, RMB may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against U.S. dollars in the medium to long term. Moreover, it is possible that in the future PRC authorities may lift restrictions on fluctuations in the RMB exchange rate and lessen intervention in the foreign exchange market.. Very limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions. While we may enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these transactions may be limited, and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, our foreign currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert RMB into foreign currencies.. Currently, some of our raw materials and major equipment are imported. In the event that the U.S. dollars appreciate against RMB, our costs will increase. If we cannot pass the resulting cost increases on to our customers, our profitability and operating results will suffer. In addition, if our sales to international customers grow, we will be increasingly subject to the risk of foreign currency depreciation.. Restrictions under PRC law on our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to make dividends and other distributions could materially and adversely affect our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions, pay dividends to you and otherwise fund and conduct our business.. Substantially all of our profits are earned by our PRC subsidiaries. However, PRC regulations restrict the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to make dividends and other payments to their offshore parent companies. PRC legal restrictions permit payments of dividends by our PRC subsidiaries only out of their accumulated after-tax profits, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Our PRC subsidiaries are also required under PRC laws and regulations to allocate at least 10.0% of their annual after-tax profits determined in accordance with PRC generally accepted accounting principles to a statutory general reserve fund until the amounts in such fund reaches 50.0% of their registered capital. Allocations to these statutory reserve funds can only be used for specific purposes and are not transferable to us in the form of loans, advances or cash dividends. Any limitations on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to transfer funds to us could materially limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our business, pay dividends and otherwise fund and conduct our business.. Failure to comply with PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident stockholders to personal liability, limit our ability to acquire PRC companies or to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to distribute profits to us or otherwise materially adversely affect us.. Pursuant to the Circular on Relevant Issues concerning Foreign Exchange Administration of Overseas Investment and Financing and Return Investments Conducted by Domestic Residents through Overseas Special Purpose Vehicle, or Circular 37, which was promulgated by SAFE, and became effective on July 4, 2014, (1) a PRC resident must register with the local SAFE branch before he or she contributes assets or equity interests in an overseas special purpose vehicle, or an Overseas SPV, that is directly established or controlled by the PRC resident for the purpose of conducting investment or financing; and (2) following the initial registration, the PRC resident is also required to register with the local SAFE branch for any major change, in respect of the Overseas SPV, including, among other things, a change in the Overseas SPV’s PRC resident shareholder, name of the Overseas SPV, term of operation, or any increase or reduction of the Overseas SPV’s registered capital, share transfer or swap, and merger or division.. 37. We have requested the beneficial holders of our stock who are PRC residents to register with the relevant branch of SAFE in connection with their equity interests in us and our acquisitions of equity interests in our PRC subsidiaries pursuant to Circular 37 or the predecessor regulation of Circular 37, namely the Notice on Relevant Issues Concerning Foreign Exchange Administration for PRC Residents Engaging in Financing and Roundtrip Investments via Overseas Special Purpose Vehicles, as the case may be. Because of uncertainty over how Circular 37 will be interpreted and implemented, and how or whether SAFE will apply it to us, we cannot predict how it will affect our business operations or future strategies. For example, the ability of our present and prospective PRC subsidiaries to conduct foreign exchange activities, such as the remittance of dividends and foreign currency-denominated borrowings, may be subject to compliance with Circular 37 by our PRC resident beneficial holders.. In addition, such PRC residents may not always be able to complete the necessary registration procedures required by Circular 37. We also have little control over either our present or prospective direct or indirect stockholders or the outcome of such registration procedures. Failure of our present or future PRC resident beneficial holders to comply with Circular 37 could subject these PRC resident beneficial holders to fines or legal sanctions, restrict our overseas or cross-border investment activities, limit the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to make distributions or pay dividends or affect our ownership structure, which could adversely affect our business and prospects.. We may be unable to complete a business combination transaction efficiently or on favorable terms due to complicated merger and acquisition regulations.. In August 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, including the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or CSRC, promulgated the Regulation on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Companies by Foreign Investors, or Circular 10, which became effective in September 2006 and was amended in June 2009. This regulation, among other things, governs the approval process by which a PRC company may participate in an acquisition of assets or equity interests. Depending on the structure of the transaction, Circular 10 requires the PRC parties to make a series of applications and supplemental applications to the government agencies. In some instances, the application process may require the presentation of economic data concerning a transaction, including appraisals of the target business and evaluations of the acquirer, which are designed to allow the government to assess the transaction. Government approvals will have expiration dates by which a transaction must be completed and reported to the government agencies. Compliance with Circular 10 is likely to be more time-consuming and expensive than in the past and the government can now exert more control over the combination of two businesses. Accordingly, due to Circular 10, our ability to engage in business combination transactions has become significantly more complicated, time consuming and expensive, and we may not be able to negotiate a transaction that is acceptable to our stockholders or sufficiently protect their interests in a transaction.. Circular 10 allows PRC government agencies to assess the economic terms of a business combination transaction. Parties to a business combination transaction may have to submit to the PRC Ministry of Commerce, or MOFCOM, and other relevant government agencies an appraisal report, an evaluation report and the acquisition agreement, all of which form part of the application for approval, depending on the structure of the transaction. The regulations also prohibit a transaction at an acquisition price obviously lower than the appraised value of the PRC business or assets and in certain transaction structures, require that consideration must be paid within defined periods, generally not in excess of a year. The regulation also limits our ability to negotiate various terms of the acquisition, including aspects of the initial consideration, contingent consideration, holdback provisions, indemnification provisions and provisions relating to the assumption and allocation of assets and liabilities. Transaction structures involving trusts, nominees and similar entities are prohibited. Therefore, such regulation may impede our ability to negotiate and complete a business combination transaction on financial terms that satisfy our investors and protect our stockholders’ economic interests.. 38. Under the Enterprise Income Tax Law, we may be classified as a “resident enterprise” of China. Such classification will likely result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our non-PRC stockholders.. The Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the EIT Law, and its implementing rules became effective on January 1, 2008. Under the EIT Law, an enterprise established outside of China with “de facto management bodies” within China is considered a “resident enterprise,” meaning that it can be treated in a manner similar to a PRC enterprise for enterprise income tax purposes. The implementing rules of the EIT Law define de facto management as “substantial and overall management and control over the production and operations, personnel, accounting, and properties” of the enterprise.. On April 22, 2009, SAT issued the Notice Concerning Relevant Issues Regarding Cognizance of Chinese Investment Controlled Enterprises Incorporated Offshore as Resident Enterprises pursuant to Criteria of de facto Management Bodies, or the Notice, further interpreting the application of the EIT Law and its implementation on non-PRC enterprise or group controlled by a PRC enterprise or a PRC enterprise group. Pursuant to the Notice, an enterprise incorporated in an offshore jurisdiction and controlled by a PRC enterprise or group will be classified as a “non-domestically incorporated resident enterprise” if (1) its senior management in charge of daily operations reside or perform their duties mainly in China; (2) its financial or personnel decisions are made or approved by bodies or persons in China; (3) its substantial assets and properties, accounting books, corporate chops, board and shareholder minutes are kept in China; and (4) at least half of its directors with voting rights or senior management often resident in China. A resident enterprise would be subject to an enterprise income tax rate of 25.0% on its worldwide income and must pay a withholding tax at a rate of 10.0% when paying dividends to its non-PRC shareholders. However, it remains unclear as to whether the Notice is applicable to an offshore enterprise not controlled by a PRC enterprise or a PRC enterprise group. Nor are detailed measures on imposition of tax from non-domestically incorporated resident enterprises are available. Therefore, it is unclear how the PRC tax authorities will determine tax residency based on the facts of each case.. We may be deemed to be a resident enterprise by PRC tax authorities. If the PRC tax authorities determine that we are a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, a number of unfavorable PRC tax consequences could follow. First, we may be subject to the enterprise income tax at a rate of 25.0% on our worldwide taxable income as well as PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations. In our case, this would mean that income such as interest on financing proceeds and non-PRC source income would be subject to PRC enterprise income tax at a rate of 25.0%. Second, although under the EIT Law and its implementing rules dividends paid to us from our PRC subsidiaries would qualify as “tax-exempt income,” we cannot guarantee that such dividends will not be subject to a 10.0% withholding tax, as the PRC foreign exchange control authorities, which enforce the withholding tax, have not yet issued guidance with respect to the processing of outbound remittances to entities that are treated as resident enterprises for PRC enterprise income tax purposes. In addition, dividends paid by us to non-PRC shareholders may be subject to PRC withholding tax and gains on dispositions of our shares by non-PRC shareholders may be subject to PRC tax. In that case, the tax rate would be 10.0% in the case of non-PRC enterprise shareholder or 20.0% in the case of non-PRC individual shareholder. Finally, if we were treated as a “resident enterprise” by PRC tax authorities, we would be subject to taxation in both the U.S. and China, and our PRC tax may not be creditable against our U.S. tax.. 39. We face uncertainties with respect to indirect transfers of equity interests in PRC resident enterprises by their non-PRC holding companies.. SAT released a circular on December 15, 2009 that addresses the transfer of shares by nonresident companies, generally referred to as Circular 698. Circular 698, which is effective retroactively to January 1, 2008, may have a significant impact on many companies that use offshore holding companies to invest in China. Circular 698 has the effect of taxing foreign companies on gains derived from the indirect sale of a PRC company. Where a foreign investor indirectly transfers equity interests in a PRC resident enterprise by selling the shares in an offshore holding company, and the latter is located in a country or jurisdiction that has an effective tax rate less than 12.5% or does not tax foreign income of its residents, the foreign investor must report this indirect transfer to the tax authority in charge of that PRC resident enterprise. Using a “substance over form” principle, the PRC tax authority may disregard the existence of the overseas holding company if it lacks a reasonable commercial purpose and was established for the purpose of avoiding PRC tax. As a result, gains derived from such indirect transfer may be subject to PRC withholding tax at a rate of up to 10.0%.. SAT subsequently released public notices to clarify issues relating to Circular 698, including the Announcement on Several Issues concerning the Enterprise Income Tax on the Indirect Transfers of Properties by Non-resident Enterprises, or SAT Notice 7, which became effective on February 3, 2015. SAT Notice 7 abolished the compulsive reporting obligations originally set out in Circular 698. Under SAT Notice 7, if a non-resident enterprise transfers its shares in an overseas holding company, which directly or indirectly owns PRC taxable properties, including shares in a PRC company, via an arrangement without reasonable commercial purpose, such transfer shall be deemed as indirect transfer of the underlying PRC taxable properties. Accordingly, the transferee shall be deemed as a withholding agent with the obligation to withhold and remit the enterprise income tax to the competent PRC tax authorities. Factors that may be taken into consideration when determining whether there is a “reasonable commercial purpose” include, among other factors, the economic essence of the transferred shares, the economic essence of the assets held by the overseas holding company, the taxability of the transaction in offshore jurisdictions, and economic essence and duration of the offshore structure. SAT Notice 7 also sets out safe harbors for the “reasonable commercial purpose” test. SAT Notice 7 contains an exemption for transfers of shares of a holding company listed outside the PRC when the shares are acquired and sold in the public market.. However, uncertainties exist on testing the reasonable commercial purpose. For example, the relevant authority has not yet promulgated any formal provisions or formally declared or stated how to calculate the effective tax rates in foreign tax jurisdictions. As a result, we may become at risk of being taxed under Circular 698 and the related SAT notices and we may be required to expend valuable resources to comply with Circular 698 and the related SAT notices or to establish that we should not be taxed under Circular 698 and the related SAT notices, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We may be exposed to liabilities under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and Chinese anti-corruption laws, and any determination that we violated these laws could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practice Act, or FCPA, and other U.S. laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by U.S. persons and issuers as defined by the relevant statute, for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We have operations, agreements with third parties, and make most of our sales in China. PRC anti-corruption laws also strictly prohibit bribery of government officials. Our activities in China create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by the employees, consultants, sales agents, or distributors, even though they may not always be subject to our control. It is our policy to implement safeguards to discourage these practices by our employees. However, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective, and the employees, consultants, sales agents, or distributors may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. Particularly, most of the hospitals and inoculation centers in China are state-owned entities, whose employees may be recognized as foreign government officials for the purpose of FCPA. Therefore, any payments, expensive gifts or other benefits provided to an employee of the state-owned hospital or inoculation center may be deemed violation of FCPA. Violations of FCPA or PRC anti-corruption laws may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, prospects, operating results and financial condition. In addition, the U.S. government may seek to hold us liable for successor liability under FCPA violations committed by companies in which we invest or that we acquire.. 40. If we become directly subject to the scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity involving U.S.-listed Chinese companies, we may have to expend significant resources to investigate and resolve the matter which could harm our business operations, stock price and reputation and could result in a loss of your investment in our stock, especially if such matter cannot be addressed and resolved favorably.. In recent years, U.S. public companies that have substantially all of their operations in China, particularly companies like us which have completed the “reverse merger” transactions, have been the subject of intense scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity by investors, financial commentators and regulatory agencies, such as the SEC. Much of the scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity has centered around financial and accounting irregularities and mistakes, a lack of effective internal controls over financial accounting, inadequate corporate governance policies or a lack of adherence thereto and, in many cases, allegations of fraud. As a result of the scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity, the publicly traded stock of many U.S.-listed PRC-based companies has sharply decreased in value and, in some cases, has become virtually worthless. Many of these companies are now subject to shareholder lawsuits, SEC enforcement actions and are conducting internal and external investigations into the allegations. It is not clear what effect this sector-wide scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity will have on us, our business and our stock price. If we become the subject of any unfavorable allegations, whether such allegations are proven to be true or untrue, we will have to expend significant resources to investigate such allegations and/or defend our company. This situation will be costly and time consuming and distract our management from growing our company. If such allegations are not proven to be groundless, our company and our business operations will be severely impacted and your investment in our stock could be rendered worthless.. The disclosures in our reports and other filings with the SEC and our other public pronouncements are not subject to the scrutiny of any regulatory bodies in China. Accordingly, our public disclosure should be reviewed in light of the fact that no governmental agency that is located in China where substantially all of our operations and business are located has conducted any due diligence on our operations or reviewed or cleared any of our disclosure.. We are regulated by the SEC and our reports and other filings with the SEC are subject to SEC review in accordance with the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act. Unlike public reporting companies whose operations are located primarily in the United States, however, substantially all of our operations are located in China. Since substantially all of our operations and business takes place in China, it may be more difficult for the Staff of the SEC to overcome the geographic and cultural obstacles that are present when reviewing our disclosure. These same obstacles are not present for similar companies whose operations or business take place entirely or primarily in the United States. Furthermore, our SEC reports and other disclosure and public pronouncements are not subject to the review or scrutiny of any PRC regulatory authority. For example, the disclosure in our SEC reports and other filings are not subject to the review of the CSRC, a PRC regulator that is tasked with oversight of the capital markets in China. Accordingly, you should review our SEC reports, filings and our other public pronouncements with the understanding that no local regulator has done any due diligence on our company and with the understanding that none of our SEC reports, other filings or any of our other public pronouncements has been reviewed or otherwise scrutinized by any local regulator.. 41. Our independent registered public accounting firm may be temporarily suspended from practicing before the SEC if unable to continue to satisfy SEC investigation requests in the future. If a delay in completion of our audit process occurs as a result, we could be unable to timely file certain reports with the SEC, which may lead to the delisting of our stock.. The vast majority of our sales are to customers in China, and we have all of our operations in China. Like many U.S. companies with significant operations in China, our independent registered public accounting firm is located in China.. On January 22, 2014, Judge Cameron Elliot, an SEC administrative law judge, issued an initial decision suspending the Chinese member firms of the “Big Four” accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, from practicing before the SEC for six months. In February 2014, the initial decision was appealed. While under appeal and in February 2015, the Chinese member firms of “Big Four” accounting firms reached a settlement with the SEC. As part of the settlement, each of the Chinese member firms of “Big Four” accounting firms agreed to settlement terms that include a censure, undertakings to make a payment to the SEC, procedures and undertakings as to future requests for documents by the SEC, and possible additional proceedings and remedies should those undertakings not be adhered to.. If the settlement terms are not adhered to, Chinese member firms of “Big four” accounting firms may be suspended from practicing before the SEC which could in turn delay the timely filing of our financial statements with the SEC. In addition, it could be difficult for us to timely identify and engage another qualified independent auditor to replace our independent registered public accounting firm. A delinquency in our filings with the SEC may result in NASDAQ initiating procedures, which could adversely harm our reputation and have other material adverse effects on our overall growth and prospects.. Our independent registered public accounting firm’s audit documentation related to their audit reports included in our annual report is located in China. The PCAOB currently cannot inspect audit documentation located in China and, as such, you may be deprived of the benefits of such inspection.. Our independent registered public accounting firm issued an audit opinion on the financial statements included in our annual reports filed with the SEC. Our independent registered public accounting firm’s audit documentation related to their audit reports included in our annual reports is located in China, and audit procedures take place within China’s borders. As auditors of companies that are traded publicly in the United States and a firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or the PCAOB, our auditor is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB. However, work papers located in China are not currently inspected by the PCAOB because the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the PRC authorities.. Inspections of certain other firms that the PCAOB has conducted outside of China have identified deficiencies in those firms’ audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. However, the PCAOB is currently unable to inspect an auditor’s audit work related to a company’s operations in China and where such documentation of the audit work is located in China. As a result, our investors may be deprived of the benefits of the PCAOB’s oversight of auditors that are located in China through such inspections.. 42. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of an auditor’s work papers in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of any of our auditor’s audit procedures or quality control procedures that may be located in China as compared to auditors outside of China that are subject to PCAOB inspections. Investors may consequently lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of our financial statements.. RISKS RELATING TO OUR STOCK. The market price of our common stock is volatile, leading to the possibility of its value being depressed at a time when you want to sell your holdings.. The market price of our common stock is volatile, and this volatility may continue. Numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly. These factors include, among others:. ·our earnings releases, actual or anticipated changes in our earnings, fluctuations in our operating results or our failure to meet the expectations of financial market analysts and investors;. ·changes in financial estimates by us or by any securities analysts who might cover our stock;. ·speculation about our business in the press or the investment community, including negative publicity and short seller reports that make allegations against us, even if unfounded;. ·significant developments relating to our relationships with our customers or suppliers;. ·stock market price and volume fluctuations of other publicly traded companies and, in particular, those that are in our industry;. ·customer demand for our products;. ·investor perceptions of our industry in general and our company in particular;. ·the operating and stock performance of comparable companies;. ·general economic conditions and trends;. ·major catastrophic events;. ·announcements by us or our competitors of new products, significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or divestitures;. ·changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretation or principles;. ·loss of external funding sources;. ·sales of our common stock, including sales by our directors, officers or significant stockholders;. ·additions or departures of key personnel; and. ·investor perception of litigation, investigation or other legal proceedings involving us or certain of our individual stockholders or their family members.. 43. Securities class action litigation is often instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs to us and divert our management’s attention and resources. Moreover, securities markets may from time to time experience significant price and volume fluctuations for reasons unrelated to operating performance of particular companies. For example, in July 2008, the securities markets in the United States, China and other jurisdictions experienced the largest decline in share prices since September 2001. These market fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our common stock and other interests in our company at a time when you want to sell your interest in us.. The provisions in our currently effective certificate of incorporation and bylaws and our preferred shares rights agreement might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore depress the trading price of the common stock.. Upon stockholders’ approval on July 20, 2012, we have adopted amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws, which contained provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices or bids unacceptably expensive to the raider and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors, rather than to attempt a hostile takeover.. These provisions include, among others:. ·the right of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval;. ·division of our board of directors into three classes with staggered terms;. ·elimination of the right of our stockholders to act by written consent;. ·prohibiting stockholders from calling a special meeting of the stockholders;. ·rules regarding how stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at stockholder meetings; and. ·requiring super majority stockholder vote to amend certain provisions of the amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws.. Approved on June 20, 2014, our currently-in-effect bylaws authorize our stockholders who hold 25.0% of our entire capital stock issued and outstanding and are entitled to vote to call a special meeting of the stockholders.. On February 22, 2017, our board of directors adopted a preferred shares rights agreement between us and the Securities Transfer Corporation, as the rights agent. This agreement provides, among other things, that when specified events occur, our stockholders will be entitled to purchase from us a fraction of a share of series A participating preferred stock for each share of common stock they own. Such preferred stock purchase rights are triggered by the earlier to occur of (1) 10 business days (or a later date determined by our board of directors before the rights are separated from our common stock) after the public announcement that a person or group has become an “acquiring person” by acquiring beneficial ownership of 15.0% or more of our outstanding common stock or (2) 10 business days (or a later date determined by our board of directors before the rights are separated from our common stock) after a person or group begins a tender or exchange offer that, if completed, would result in that person or group becoming an acquiring person. The issuance of preferred stock pursuant to this preferred shares rights agreement would cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our board of directors. Our board of directors had previously adopted  similar preferred shares rights agreements on November 19, 2012, which expired on November 20, 2014, and on January 8, 2015, which expired on January 8, 2017.. 44. We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future.. For the foreseeable future, we intend to retain any earnings to finance the development and expansion of our business, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock. Accordingly, investors must be prepared to rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation to earn an investment return, which may never occur. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our results of operations, financial condition, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors our board of directors deems relevant.. Stock prices of companies with business operations primarily in China have fluctuated widely in recent years, and the trading prices of our common stock are likely to be volatile, which could result in substantial losses to investors.. The trading prices of our common stock are likely to be volatile and could fluctuate widely in response to factors beyond our control. For example, if one or more of the industry analysts or ratings agencies who cover us downgrades us or our common stock, or publishes unfavorable research about us, the price of our common stock may decline. If one or more of these analysts or agencies cease to cover our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause the price of our common stock or trading volume to decline. In addition, the performance and fluctuation of the market prices of other China-based, U.S.-listed healthcare companies may affect the volatility in the price of and trading volume for our common stock. In recent years, a number of PRC-based companies have listed their securities, or are in the process of preparing for listing their securities, on U.S. stock markets. Some of these companies have experienced significant volatility, including significant price declines following their initial public offerings. The trading performances of the securities of these PRC-based companies’ securities at the time of or after their offerings may affect the overall investor sentiment towards PRC-based companies listed in the United States and consequently may affect the trading performance of our common stock. These broad market and industry factors may significantly affect the market price and volatility of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance.. In addition to market and industry factors, the price and trading volume for our common stock may be highly volatile for specific business reasons. Any of these factors may result in large and sudden changes in the volume and price at which our common stock will trade. We cannot assure you that these factors will not occur in the future again. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, stockholders have often instituted securities class action litigation against that company. If we were involved in a class action lawsuit, it could divert the attention of senior management, and, if adversely determined, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations." 
