[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. Risks Relating to Our Business. Our business is sensitive to China economy and China real estate policies. A downturn in China economy and restrictive real estate polices could materially and adversely affect our revenues and results of operations.. Any slowdown in China’s economic development might lead to tighter credit markets, increased market volatility, sudden drops in business and consumer confidence and dramatic changes in business and consumer behaviors. As exports slowed, China’s reported GDP growth dropped to 6.8% in the first nine months of 2017 calendar year from 8.1% in the first quarter of 2012, prompting the government to loosen economic policy to support growth. The current package of economic support policies is designed to stabilize the economy against slowing exports. Ongoing government regulatory measures, including the “Ten National Notices” announced in 2010, the “Eight National Notices” and property tax approved in January 2011, have brought the PRC property market further down to the bottom in 2012 and the recovery of real market is shown in the 2014 and in 2015. The monetary easing policies stabilized in the first nine months of 2017 calendar year; the concentrated release of various demands contributed to the overall market upside; and the first-tier and second-tier core cities and their surrounding cities experienced successive outperformances, while overall risk remained in tier 3 and 4 cities despite initial signs of improvement in sales. In response to their perceived uncertainty in economic conditions, consumers might delay, reduce or cancel purchases of homes, and our homebuyers may also defer, reduce or cancel purchases of our units and our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.. 12. If we are unable to successfully manage our expansion into other Tier 3 and Tier 4 cities, we will not be able to execute our business plan.. Historically, our business and operations have been concentrated in Hanzhong City and other surrounding counties. If we are unable to successfully develop and sell projects outside Hanzhong City, our future growth may be limited and we may not generate adequate returns to cover our investments in these Tier 3 and Tier 4 cities. In addition, as we expand our operations to Tier 3 and Tier 4 cities with higher land prices, our costs may increase, which may lead to a decrease in our profit margin.. We require substantial capital resources to fund our land use rights acquisition and property developments, which may not be available.. Property development is capital intensive. Our ability to secure sufficient financing for land use rights acquisition and property development depends on a number of factors that are beyond our control, including market conditions in the capital markets, the PRC economy and the PRC government regulations that affect the availability and cost of financing for real estate companies.. We may be unable to acquire desired development sites at commercially reasonable costs.. Our revenue depends on the completion and sale of our projects, which in turn depends on our ability to acquire development sites. Our land use rights costs are a major component of our cost of real estate sales and increases in such costs could diminish our gross margin. In China, the PRC government controls the supply of land and regulates land sales and transfers in the secondary market. As a result, the policies of the PRC government, including those related to land supply and urban planning, affect our ability to acquire, and our costs of acquiring, land use rights for our projects. In recent years, the PRC government has introduced various measures attempting to moderate investment in the property market in China.. Although we believe that these measures are generally targeted at the luxury property market and speculative purchases of land and properties, the PRC government could introduce other measures in the future that may adversely affect our ability to obtain land for development. We currently acquire our development sites primarily by bidding for government land. Under current regulations, land use rights acquired from government authorities for commercial and residential development purposes must be purchased through a public tender, auction or listing-for-sale. Competition in these bidding processes has resulted in higher land use rights costs for us. We may also need to acquire land use rights through acquisition, which could increase our costs. Moreover, the supply of potential development sites in any given city will diminish over time and we may find it increasingly difficult to identify and acquire attractive development sites at commercially reasonable costs in the future.. We provide guarantees for the mortgage loans of our customers which expose us to risks of default by our customers.. We pre-sell properties before actual completion and, in accordance with industry practice, our customers’ mortgage banks require us to guarantee our customers’ mortgage loans. Typically, we provide guarantees to PRC banks with respect to loans procured by the purchasers of our properties for the total mortgage loan amount until the completion of the registration of the mortgage with the relevant mortgage registration authorities, which generally occurs within six to twelve months after the purchasers take possession of the relevant properties. In line with what we believe to be industry practice, we rely on the credit evaluation conducted by mortgagee banks and do not conduct our own independent credit checks on our customers. The mortgagee banks typically require us to maintain, as restricted cash, 5% to 10% of the mortgage proceeds paid to us as security for our obligations under such guarantees (the security deposit).. If a purchaser defaults on its payment obligations during the term of our guarantee, the mortgagee bank may deduct the delinquent mortgage payment from the security deposit. If the delinquent mortgage payments exceed the security deposit, the banks may require us to pay the excess amount. If multiple purchasers default on their payment obligations at around the same time, we will be required to make significant payments to the banks to satisfy our guarantee obligations. If we are unable to resell the properties underlying defaulted mortgages on a timely basis or at prices higher than the amounts of our guarantees and related expenses, we will suffer financial losses.. 13. We rely on third-party contractors.. Substantially all of our project construction and related work are outsourced to third-party contractors. We are exposed to risks that the performance of our contractors may not meet our standards or specifications. Negligence or poor work quality by any contractors may result in defects in our buildings or residential units, which could in turn cause us to suffer financial losses, harm our reputation or expose us to third-party claims. We work with multiple contractors on different projects and we cannot guarantee that we can effectively monitor their work at all times.. Although our construction and other contracts contain provisions designed to protect us, we may be unable to successfully enforce these rights and, even if we are able to successfully enforce these rights, the third-party contractor may not have sufficient financial resources to compensate us. Moreover, the contractors may undertake projects from other property developers, engage in risky undertakings or encounter financial or other difficulties, such as supply shortages, labor disputes or work accidents, which may cause delays in the completion of our property projects or increases in our costs.. We may be unable to complete our property developments on time or at all. The progress and costs for a development project can be adversely affected by many factors, including, without limitation:. ·delays in obtaining necessary licenses, permits or approvals from government agencies or authorities;. ·shortages of materials, equipment, contractors and skilled labor;. ·disputes with our third-party contractors;. ·failure by our third-party contractors to comply with our designs, specifications or standards;. ·difficult geological situations or other geotechnical issues; and. ·onsite labor disputes or work accidents; and natural catastrophes or adverse weather conditions.. Any construction delays, or failure to complete a project according to our planned specifications or budget, may delay our property sales, which could harm our revenues, cash flows and our reputation.. Changes of laws and regulations with respect to pre-sales may adversely affect our cash flow position and performance.. We depend on cash flows from pre-sale of properties as an important source of funding for our property projects and servicing our indebtedness. Under current PRC laws and regulations, property developers must fulfill certain conditions before they can commence pre-sale of the relevant properties and may only use pre-sale proceeds to finance the construction of specific developments.. Our results of operations may fluctuate from period to period.. Our results of operations tend to fluctuate from period to period. The number of properties that we can develop or complete during any particular period is limited due to the substantial capital required for land acquisition and construction, as well as the lengthy development periods required before positive cash flows may be generated. In addition, several properties that we have developed or that are under development are large scale and are developed in multiple phases over the course of one to several years. The selling prices of the residential units in larger scale property developments tend to change over time, which may impact our sales proceeds and, accordingly, our revenues for any given period.. 14. We rely on our key management members.. We depend on the services provided by key management members. Competition for management talent is intense in the property development sector. In particular, we are highly dependent on Mr. Xiaojun Zhu, our founder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. We do not maintain key employee insurance. In the event that we lose the services of any key management member, we may be unable to identify and recruit suitable successors in a timely manner or at all, which will adversely affect our business and operations. Moreover, we need to employ and retain more management personnel to support our expansion into other Tier 3 and Tier 4 cities and counties. If we cannot attract and retain suitable human resources, especially at the management level, our business and future growth will be adversely affected.. Increases in the price of raw materials may increase our cost of sales and reduce our earnings.. Our third-party contractors are responsible for procuring almost all of the raw materials used in our project developments. Our construction contracts typically provide for fixed or capped payments, but the payments are subject to changes in government-suggested steel prices. The increase in steel prices could result in an increase in our construction cost. In addition, the increases in the price of raw materials, such as cement, concrete blocks and bricks, in the long run could be passed on to us by our contractors, which will increase our construction cost. Any such cost increase could reduce our earnings to the extent we are unable to pass these increased costs to our customers.. Any unauthorized use of our brand or trademark may adversely affect our business.. We own trademarks for “<U+6C49><U+4E2D><U+5E7F><U+53A6>”, in the form of Chinese characters and our company logo. We rely on the PRC intellectual property and anti-unfair competition laws and contractual restrictions to protect brand name and trademarks. We believe our brand, trademarks and other intellectual property rights are important to our success. Any unauthorized use of our brand, trademarks and other intellectual property rights could harm our competitive advantages and business. Historically, China has not protected intellectual property rights to the same extent as the United States, and infringement of intellectual property rights continues to pose a serious risk of doing business in China. Monitoring and preventing unauthorized use is difficult. The measures we take to protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate. Furthermore, the application of laws governing intellectual property rights in China and abroad is uncertain and evolving, and could involve substantial risks to us. If we are unable to adequately protect our brand, trademarks and other intellectual property rights, our reputation may be harmed and our business may be adversely affected.. We may fail to obtain, or may experience material delays in obtaining necessary government approvals for any major property development, which will adversely affect our business.. The real estate industry is strictly regulated by the PRC government. Property developers in China must abide by various laws and regulations, including implementation rules promulgated by local governments to enforce these laws and regulations. Before commencing, and during the course of, development of a property project, we need to apply for various licenses, permits, certificates and approvals, including land use rights certificates, construction site planning permits, construction work planning permits, construction permits, pre-sale permits and completion acceptance certificates. We need to satisfy various requirements to obtain these certificates and permits. To date, we have not encountered serious delays or difficulties in the process of applying for these certificates and permits, but we cannot guarantee that we will not encounter serious delays or difficulties in the future. In the event that we fail to obtain the necessary governmental approvals for any of our major property projects, or a serious delay occurs in the government’s examination and approval progress, we may not be able to maintain our development schedule and our business and cash flows may be adversely affected.. 15. We may forfeit land to the PRC government if we fail to comply with procedural requirements applicable to land grants from the government or the terms of the land use rights grant contracts.. According to the relevant PRC regulations, if we fail to develop a property project according to the terms of the land use rights grant contract, including those relating to the payment of land premiums, specified use of the land and the time for commencement and completion of the property development, the PRC government may issue a warning, may impose a penalty or may order us to forfeit the land. Specifically, under current PRC law, if we fail to commence development within one year after the commencement date stipulated in the land use rights grant contract, the relevant PRC land bureau may issue a warning notice to us and impose an idle land fee on the land of up to 20% of the land premium. If we fail to commence development within two years, the land will be subject to forfeiture to the PRC government, unless the delay in development is caused by government actions or force majeure. Even if the commencement of the land development is compliant with the land use rights grant contract, if the developed GFA on the land is less than one-third of the total GFA of the project or the total capital invested is less than one-fourth of the total investment of the project and the suspension of the development of the land continues for more than one year without government approval, the land will also be treated as idle land and be subject to penalty or forfeiture. We cannot assure you that circumstances leading to significant delays in our development schedule or forfeiture of land will not arise in the future. If we forfeit land, we will not only lose the opportunity to develop the property projects on such land, but may also lose all past investments in such land, including land premiums paid and development costs incurred.. Any non-compliant GFA of our uncompleted and future property developments will be subject to governmental approval and additional payments.. The local government authorities inspect property developments after their completion and issue the completion acceptance certificates if the developments are in compliance with the relevant laws and regulations. If the total constructed GFA of a property development exceeds the GFA originally authorized in the relevant land grant contracts or construction permit, or if the completed property contains built-up areas that do not conform with the plan authorized by the construction permit, the property developer may be required to pay additional amounts or take corrective actions with respect to such non-compliant GFA before a completion acceptance certificate can be issued to the property development.. Our failure to assist our customers in applying for property ownership certificates in a timely manner may lead to compensatory liabilities to our customers.. We are required to meet various requirements within 90 days after delivery of property, or such other period contracted with our customers, in order for our customers to apply for their property ownership certificates, including passing various governmental clearances, formalities and procedures. Under our sales contract, we are liable for any delay in the submission of the required documents as a result of our failure to meet such requirements, and are required to compensate our customers for delays. In the case of serious delays on one or more property projects, we may be required to pay significant compensation to our customers and our reputation may be adversely affected.. We are subject to potential environmental liability.. We are subject to a variety of laws and regulations concerning the protection of health and the environment. The particular environmental laws and regulations that apply to any given development site vary significantly according to the site’s location and environmental condition, the present and former uses of the site and the nature of the adjoining properties. Environmental laws and conditions may result in delays, may cause us to incur substantial compliance and other costs and can prohibit or severely restrict project development activity in environmentally-sensitive regions or areas. Although the environmental investigations conducted by local environmental authorities have not revealed any environmental liability that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations to date, it is possible that these investigations did not reveal all environmental liabilities and that there are material environmental liabilities of which we are unaware. We cannot assure you that future environmental investigations will not reveal material environmental liability. Also, we cannot assure you that the PRC government will not change the existing laws and regulations or impose additional or stricter laws or regulations, the compliance with which may cause us to incur significant capital expenditure.. We have never paid cash dividends and are not likely to do so in the foreseeable future.. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business. We do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future but will review this policy as circumstances dictate.. 16. We need to improve our internal financial reporting controls.  If we are unable to establish appropriate internal financial reporting controls and procedures, it could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, subject us to regulatory scrutiny and sanction, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative effect on the market price for shares of our common stock.. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. We maintain a system of internal control over financial reporting, which is defined as a process designed by, or under the supervision of, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by our board of directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.. We cannot assure you that we will not, in the future, identify areas requiring improvement in our internal control over financial reporting. We cannot assure you that the measures we will take to remediate any areas in need of improvement will be successful or that we will implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future as we continue our growth.. As a public company, we are required to comply with the reporting obligations of the Exchange Act and Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2013. If we fail to comply with the reporting obligations of the Exchange Act and Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act or if we fail to maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. As a public company, we are required to comply with the periodic reporting obligations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), including preparing annual reports and quarterly reports. Our failure to prepare and disclose this information in a timely manner could subject us to penalties under U.S. federal securities laws, expose us to lawsuits and restrict our ability to access financing. In addition, we are required under applicable law and regulations to design and implement internal controls over financial reporting, and evaluate our existing internal controls with respect to the standards adopted by the U.S. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.. The Company assessed its internal control over financial reporting and still has significant and material deficiencies as of September 30, 2017. The Company’s remediation plan is listed in Item 9A. However, we cannot assure you that our current remediation plan can resolve all the significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the internal control over financial reporting. As a result, we may be required to implement further remedial measures and to design enhanced processes and controls to address issues identified through future reviews. This could result in significant delays and costs to us and require us to divert substantial resources, including management time, from other activities.. If we do not fully remediate the material weaknesses identified by management or fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls in the future, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent fraud. As a result, any failure to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 on a timely basis could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our common stock.. Risk Relating to the Residential Property Industry in China. The PRC government may adopt further restrictive measures to slow the increase in prices of real property and real property development.. Along with the economic growth in China, investments in the property sectors have increased significantly in the past few years. In response to concerns over the scale of the increase in property investments, the PRC government has introduced policies to curtail property development. We believe those regulations, among others, significantly affect the property industry in China.. 17. These restrictive regulations and measures could increase our operating costs in adapting to these regulations and measures, limit our access to capital resources or even restrict our business operations. We cannot be certain that the PRC government will not issue additional and more stringent regulations or measures, which could further slowdown property development in China and adversely affect our business and prospects.. We are heavily dependent on the performance of the residential property market in China, which is at a relatively early development stage.. The residential property industry in the PRC is still in a relatively early stage of development. Although demand for residential property in the PRC has been growing rapidly in recent years, such growth is often coupled with volatility in market conditions and fluctuation in property prices. It is extremely difficult to predict how much and when demand will develop, as many social, political, economic, legal and other factors, most of which are beyond our control, may affect the development of the market. The level of uncertainty is increased by the limited availability of accurate financial and market information as well as the overall low level of transparency in the PRC, especially in Tier 3 and 4 cities which have lagged in progress in these aspects when compared to Tier 1 cities.. The lack of a liquid secondary market for residential property may discourage investors from acquiring new properties. The limited amount of property mortgage financing available to PRC individuals may further inhibit demand for residential developments.. We face intense competition from other real estate developers.. The property industry in the PRC is highly competitive. In the Tier 3 and Tier 4 cities we focus on, local and regional property developers are our major competitors, and an increasing number of large state-owned and private national property developers have started entering these markets. Many of our competitors, especially the state-owned and private national property developers, are well capitalized and have greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. Some also have larger land banks, greater economies of scale, broader name recognition, a longer track record and more established relationships in certain markets. In addition, the PRC government’s recent measures designed to reduce land supply further increased competition for land among property developers.. Competition among property developers may result in increased costs for the acquisition of land for development, increased costs for raw materials, shortages of skilled contractors, oversupply of properties, decrease in property prices in certain parts of the PRC, a slowdown in the rate at which new property developments will be approved and/or reviewed by the relevant government authorities and an increase in administrative costs for hiring or retaining qualified personnel, any of which may adversely affect our business and financial condition. Furthermore, property developers that are better capitalized than we are may be more competitive in acquiring land through the auction process. If we cannot respond to changes in market conditions as promptly and effectively as our competitors, or effectively compete for land acquisition through the auction systems and acquire other factors of production, our business and financial condition will be adversely affected.. In addition, risk of property over-supply is increasing in parts of China, where property investment, trading and speculation have become overly active. We are exposed to the risk that in the event of actual or perceived over-supply, property prices may fall drastically, and our revenue and profitability will be adversely affected.. We may be deemed a PRC resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes under the new Enterprise Income Tax Law, which could result in the imposition of a 25% enterprise income tax payable on our taxable global income.. On March 16, 2007, the National People’s Congress of the PRC passed the Enterprise Income Tax Law of the PRC (‘‘New Income Tax Law’’), which took effect on January 1, 2008. On December 6, 2007, the Implementation Rules of Enterprise Income Tax Law of the PRC (‘‘Implementation Rules’’) were also enacted, and took effect on January 1, 2008. In accordance with the new laws and regulations, a unified enterprise income tax rate of 25% and unified tax deduction standards will be applied equally to both domestic enterprises and foreign-invested enterprises.. 18. Under the New Income Tax Law and the Implementation Rules, enterprises established under the laws of foreign jurisdictions other than the PRC may nevertheless be considered as PRC-resident enterprises for tax purposes if these enterprises have their ‘‘de facto management body’’ within the PRC. Under the Implementation Rules, ‘‘de facto management body’’ is defined as a body that has material and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel and human resources, finances and treasury, and acquisition and disposition of properties and other assets of an enterprise. At present, it is unclear what factors will be used by the PRC tax authorities to determine whether we are a ‘‘de facto management body’’ in China. All of our management personnel are located in the PRC, and all of our revenues arise from our operations in China. If the PRC tax authorities determine that we are a PRC resident enterprise, we will be subject to PRC tax on our worldwide income at the 25% uniform tax rate, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Notwithstanding the foregoing provision, the New Income Tax Law also provides that, if a PRC resident enterprise already invests in another PRC resident enterprise, the dividends received by the investing resident enterprise from the invested resident enterprise are exempt from income tax, subject to certain qualifications. Therefore, if we are classified as a PRC resident enterprise, the dividends received from our PRC subsidiaries may be exempt from income tax. However, due to the limited history of the New Income Tax Law, it is unclear as to (i) the detailed qualification requirements for such exemption and (ii) whether dividend payments by our PRC subsidiaries to us will meet such qualification requirements, even if we are considered a PRC resident enterprise for tax purposes.. In addition, the local tax authority of Hanzhong City has the power to assess corporate taxes annually on local enterprises at a pre-determined fixed rate as an incentive to stimulate the local economy and encourage entrepreneurship.  In fiscal 2017 and 2016, the Hanzhong City tax authority assessed the Company for income taxes at the rate of 1.25% to 2.5% on revenue, instead of the statutory rate of 25%. As a result, income tax expenses for the year ended September 30, 2017 were significantly different than they would have been had the Company been assessed at the statutory rate.  If the Company were assessed at the statutory rate of 25%, the Company’s tax expenses could increase significantly which could significantly reduce the Company’s net income.. We face uncertainty from the Circular on Strengthening the Administration of Enterprise Income Tax on Non-resident Enterprises' Share Transfer (“Circular 698”) released in December 2009 by China's State Administration of Taxation (SAT), effective as of January 1, 2008.. Where a foreign investor indirectly transfers equity interests in a Chinese resident enterprise by selling the shares in an offshore holding company, and the latter is located in a country (jurisdiction) where the effective tax burden is less than 12.5% or where the offshore income of her residents is not taxable, the foreign investor is required to provide the tax authority in charge of that Chinese resident enterprise with the relevant information within 30 days of the transfers.. Where a foreign investor indirectly transfers equity interests in a Chinese resident enterprise through the abuse of form of organization and there are no reasonable commercial purposes such that the corporate income tax liability is avoided, the tax authority has the power to re-assess the nature of the equity transfer in accordance with the “substance-over-form” principle and deny the existence of the offshore holding company that is used for tax planning purposes. “Income derived from equity transfers” as mentioned in this circular refers to income derived by non-resident enterprises from direct or indirect transfers of equity interest in China resident enterprises, excluding share in Chinese resident enterprises that are bought and sold openly on the stock exchange.. While the term \"indirectly transfer\" is not defined, we understand that the relevant PRC tax authorities have jurisdiction regarding requests for information over a wide range of foreign entities having no direct contact with China. The relevant authority has not yet promulgated any formal provisions or formally declared or stated how to calculate the effective tax in the country (jurisdiction) and the process of the disclosure to the tax authority in charge of that Chinese resident enterprise. Meanwhile, there are no formal declarations with regard to how to decide “abuse of form of organization” and “reasonable commercial purpose,” which can be utilized by us to determine if our company complies with the Circular 698.. 19. Failure to comply with PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may materially adversely affect us.. On July 15, 2014, SAFE issued the Notice on Relevant Issues in the Foreign Exchange Control over Investment, Financing and Return Investment Through Special Purpose Companies by Residents Inside China, generally referred to as Circular 37, which required PRC residents to register with the competent local SAFE branch before establishing or acquiring control over an offshore special purpose company, or SPV, for the purpose of engaging in an equity financing outside of China on the strength of domestic PRC assets originally held by those residents. Internal implementing guidelines issued by SAFE, which became public in June 2007 (known as Notice 106), expanded the reach of Circular 37 by (1) purporting to cover the establishment or acquisition of control by PRC residents of offshore entities which merely acquire “control” over domestic companies or assets, even in the absence of legal ownership; (2) adding requirements relating to the source of the PRC resident's funds used to establish or acquire the offshore entity; (3) covering the use of existing offshore entities for offshore financings; (4) purporting to cover situations in which an offshore SPV establishes a new subsidiary in China or acquires an unrelated company or unrelated assets in China; and (5) making the domestic affiliate of the SPV responsible for the accuracy of certain documents which must be filed in connection with any such registration, notably, the business plan which describes the overseas financing and the use of proceeds. Amendments to registrations made under Circular 37 are required in connection with any increase or decrease of capital, transfer of shares, mergers and acquisitions, equity investment or creation of any security interest in any assets located in China to guarantee offshore obligations, and Notice 106 makes the offshore SPV jointly responsible for these filings. In the case of an SPV which was established, and which acquired a related domestic company or assets, before the implementation date of Circular 37, a retroactive SAFE registration was required to have been completed before March 31, 2006. This date was subsequently extended indefinitely by Notice 106, which also required that the registrant establish that all foreign exchange transactions undertaken by the SPV and its affiliates were in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Failure to comply with the requirements of Circular 37, as applied by SAFE in accordance with Notice 106, may result in fines and other penalties under PRC laws for evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions. Any such failure could also result in the SPV's affiliates being impeded or prevented from distributing their profits and the proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to the SPV, or from engaging in other transfers of funds into or out of China.. We have asked our stockholders, who are PRC residents as defined in Circular 37, to register with the relevant branch of SAFE, as currently required, in connection with their equity interests in us and our acquisitions of equity interests in our PRC subsidiary. However, we cannot provide any assurances that they can obtain the above SAFE registrations required by Circular 37 and Notice 106. Moreover, because of uncertainty over how Circular 37 will be interpreted and implemented, and how or whether SAFE will apply it to us, we cannot predict how it will affect our business operations or future strategies. For example, our present and prospective PRC subsidiaries' ability to conduct foreign exchange activities, such as the remittance of dividends and foreign currency-denominated borrowings, may be subject to compliance with Circular 37 and Notice 106 by our PRC resident beneficial holders.. In addition, such PRC residents may not always be able to complete the necessary registration procedures required by Circular 37 and Notice 106. We also have little control over either our present or prospective direct or indirect stockholders or the outcome of such registration procedures. A failure by our PRC resident beneficial holders or future PRC resident stockholders to comply with Circular 37 and Notice 106, if SAFE requires it, could subject these PRC resident beneficial holders to fines or legal sanctions, restrict our overseas or cross-border investment activities, limit our subsidiaries' ability to make distributions or pay dividends or affect our ownership structure, which could adversely affect our business and prospects.. PRC economic, political and social conditions as well as government policies can affect our business.. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many aspects, including:. ·political structure;. ·degree of government involvement;. ·degree of development;. ·level and control of capital reinvestment;. 20. ·control of foreign exchange; and. ·allocation of resources.. The PRC economy has been transitioning from a centrally planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. For more than two decades, the PRC government has implemented economic reform measures emphasizing utilization of market forces in the development of the PRC economy. Although we believe these reforms will have a positive effect on China’s overall and long-term development, we cannot predict whether changes in the PRC economic, political and social conditions, laws, regulations and policies will have any adverse effect on our current or future business, financial condition or results of operations.. Changes in foreign exchange regulations may adversely affect our results of operations.. We currently receive all of our revenues in RMB. The PRC government regulates the conversion between RMB and foreign currencies. Over the years, the government has significantly reduced its control over routine foreign exchange transactions under current accounts, including trade and service related foreign exchange transactions, payment of dividends and service of foreign debt. However, foreign exchange transactions by our PRC subsidiaries under capital accounts continue to be subject to significant foreign exchange controls and require the approval of, or registration with, PRC governmental authorities. There can be no assurance that these PRC laws and regulations on foreign investment will not cast uncertainties on our financing and operating plans in China. Under current foreign exchange regulations in China, subject to the relevant registration at SAFE, we will be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies, without prior approval from SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, there can be no assurance that the current PRC foreign exchange policies regarding debt service and payment of dividends in foreign currencies will continue in the future. Changes in PRC foreign exchange policies might have a negative impact on our ability to service our foreign currency-denominated indebtedness and to distribute dividends to our shareholders in foreign currencies.. Interpretation of PRC laws and regulations involves uncertainty.. Our core business is conducted within China and is governed by PRC laws and regulations. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes, and prior court decisions can only be used as a reference. Since 1979, the PRC government has promulgated laws and regulations in relation to economic matters such as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade, with a view to developing a comprehensive system of commercial law, including laws relating to property ownership and development. However, due to the fact that these laws and regulations have not been fully developed, and because of the limited volume of published cases and the non-binding nature of prior court decisions, interpretation of PRC laws and regulations involves a degree of uncertainty. Some of these laws may be changed without being immediately published or may be amended with retroactive effect. Depending on the government agency or how an application or case is presented to such agency, we may receive less favorable interpretations of laws and regulations than our competitors, particularly if a competitor has long been established in the locality of, and has developed a relationship with, such agency. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. All these uncertainties may cause difficulties in the enforcement of our land use rights, entitlements under its permits, and other statutory and contractual rights and interests.. The Chinese government exerts substantial influence over the manner in which we must conduct our business activities.. China only recently has permitted provincial and local economic autonomy and private economic activities, and, as a result, we are dependent on our relationship with the local government in the province in which we operate our business. Chinese government has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. Our ability to operate in China may be harmed by changes in its laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. We believe that our operations in China are in material compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, the central or local governments of these jurisdictions may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures and efforts on our part to ensure our compliance with such regulations or interpretations. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof, and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in Chinese properties.. 21. Future inflation in China may inhibit our activity to conduct business in China.. In recent years, the Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and high rates of inflation. During the past ten years, the rate of inflation in China has been as high as 20.7% and as low as -2.2%. These factors have led to the adoption by the Chinese government, from time to time, of various corrective measures designed to restrict the availability of credit or regulate growth and contain inflation. While inflation has been more moderate since 1995, high inflation may in the future cause Chinese government to impose controls on credit and/or prices, or to take other action, which could inhibit economic activity in China, and thereby harm the market for our products.. Because Chinese law governs almost all of our material agreements, we may not be able to enforce our legal rights within China or elsewhere, which could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities, or capital.. Chinese law governs almost all of our material agreements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to enforce any of our material agreements or that remedies will be available outside of China. The system of laws and the enforcement of existing laws in China may not be as certain in implementation and interpretation as in the United States. The inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under any of our current or future agreements could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital. It will be extremely difficult to acquire jurisdiction and enforce liabilities against our officers, directors and assets based in China.. Substantially all of our assets are located in the PRC and all of our officers and most of our present directors reside outside of the United States.  As a result, it may not be possible for United States investors to enforce their legal rights, to effect service of process upon our directors or officers or to enforce judgments of United States courts predicated upon civil liabilities and criminal penalties of our directors and officers under Federal securities laws. Moreover, we have been advised that China does not have treaties providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments of courts with the United States. Further, it is unclear if extradition treaties now in effect between the United States and China would permit effective enforcement of criminal penalties of the Federal securities laws.. Failure to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences.. We are subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits United States companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Foreign companies, including some that may compete with us, are not subject to these prohibitions. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices occur from time-to-time in the PRC. We can make no assurance, however, that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may have difficulty establishing adequate management, legal and financial controls in the PRC.. The PRC historically has been deficient in Western style management and financial reporting concepts and practices, as well as in modern banking, computer and other control systems. We may have difficulty in hiring and retaining a sufficient number of qualified employees to work in the PRC. As a result of these factors, we may experience difficulty in establishing management, legal and financial controls, collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account and corporate records and instituting business practices that meet Western standards. We may have difficulty establishing adequate management, legal and financial controls in the PRC.. 22. Risks Relating to our Securities. We may be subject to the penny stock rules which will make the shares of our common stock more difficult to sell.. We may be subject now and in the future to the SEC’s “penny stock” rules if our shares of common stock sell below $1.00 per share. Penny stocks generally are equity securities with a price of less than $1.00. The penny stock rules require broker-dealers to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document prepared by the SEC which provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer must also provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson, and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer's account. The bid and offer quotations, and the broker-dealer and salesperson compensation information must be given to the customer orally or in writing prior to completing the transaction and must be given to the customer in writing before or with the customer's confirmation.. In addition, the penny stock rules require that prior to a transaction, the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to the transaction. The penny stock rules are burdensome and may reduce purchases of any offerings and reduce the trading activity for shares of our common stock. As long as our shares of common stock are subject to the penny stock rules, the holders of such shares of common stock may find it more difficult to sell their securities.. Our shares of common stock are very thinly traded, and the price if traded may not reflect our value. There can be no assurance that there will be an active market for our shares of common stock either now or in the future.. Our shares of common stock are very thinly traded, and the price if traded may not reflect our value. There can be no assurance that there will be an active market for our shares of common stock either now or in the future. The market liquidity will be dependent on the perception of our operating business and any steps that our management might take to bring us to the awareness of investors. There can be no assurance given that there will be any awareness generated. Consequently, investors may not be able to liquidate their investment or liquidate it at a price that reflects the value of the business. If a more active market should develop, the price may be highly volatile. Because there may be a low price for our shares of common stock, many brokerage firms may not be willing to effect transactions in the securities. Even if an investor finds a broker willing to effect a transaction in the shares of our common stock, the combination of brokerage commissions, transfer fees, taxes, if any, and any other selling costs may exceed the selling price. Further, many lending institutions will not permit the use of such shares of common stock as collateral for any loans."
