[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. Choice Hotels International, Inc. and its subsidiaries are subject to various risks, which could have a negative effect on the Company and its financial condition. These risks could cause actual operating results to differ from those expressed in certain \"forward looking statements\" contained in this Form 10-K as well as in other Company communications. Before you invest in our securities you should carefully consider these risk factors together with all other information included in our publicly filed documents.. We are subject to the operating risks common in the lodging and franchising industries.. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from fees based on room revenues at hotels franchised under our brands. As such, our business is subject, directly or through our franchisees, to the following risks common in the lodging and franchising industry, among others:. • changes in the number of hotels operating under franchised brands;. • changes in the relative mix of franchised hotels in the various lodging industry price categories;. • changes in occupancy and room rates achieved by hotels;. • desirability of hotel geographic location;. • changes in general and local economic and market conditions, which can adversely affect the level of business and leisure travel, and therefore the demand for lodging and related services;. • level of consumer unemployment;. • increases in operating costs that may not be able to be offset by increases in room rates, such as through increases in minimum wage levels;. • increases in corporate-level operating costs resulting in lower operating margins;. • over-building in one or more sectors of the hotel industry and/or in one or more geographic regions, could lead to excess supply compared to demand, and to decreases in hotel occupancy and/or room rates;. • the availability and cost of capital to allow hotel owners and developers to build new hotels and fund investments;. • changes in travel patterns;. • travelers' fears of exposure to contagious diseases or insect infestations in hotel rooms;. 25. Table of Contents. • changes in governmental regulations that influence or determine wages, benefits, prices or increase operating, maintenance or construction costs of our franchisees;. • changes by governmental agencies and within relevant legal systems of prevailing opinion and interpretation of new or existing rules, regulations and legal doctrine, particularly those limiting the liability of franchisors for employment and general liability claims involving franchisees;. • security concerns or travel restrictions (whether security-related or otherwise) imposed by governmental authorities that have the effect of discouraging or limiting travel to and from certain jurisdictions;. • the costs and administrative burdens associated with compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including, among others, franchising, lending, privacy, marketing and sales, licensing, labor, climate change, employment and regulations applicable under the Office of Foreign Asset Control and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act;. • the financial condition of franchisees and travel related companies;. • franchisors' ability to develop and maintain positive relations with current and potential franchisees; and. • changes in exchange rates or economic weakness in the United States (affecting domestic travel) and internationally could also unfavorably impact future results.. We may not grow our franchise system or we may lose business by failing to compete effectively.. Our success and growth prospects depend on the strength and desirability of our brands, particularly the Comfort brand which represents a significant portion of our business. We believe that hotel operators choose lodging franchisors based primarily on the value and quality of each franchisor's brand and services, the extent to which affiliation with that franchisor may increase the hotel operator's reservations and profits, and the franchise fees charged. Demographic, economic or other changes in markets may adversely affect the desirability of our brands and, correspondingly, the number of hotels franchised under the Choice brands.. We compete with other lodging companies for franchisees. As a result, the terms of new franchise agreements may not be as favorable as our current franchise agreements.  For example, competition may require us to reduce or change fee structures, make greater use of financial incentives such as loans and guarantees to acquire franchisees and/or reduce the level of property improvements required before operating under our brand names. This could potentially impact our margins negatively. New competition may also emerge using different business models with a lesser reliance on franchise fees. In addition, an excess supply of hotel rooms or unfavorable borrowing conditions may discourage potential franchisees from expanding or constructing new hotels, thereby limiting a source of growth of the franchise fees received by us.. In addition, each of our hotel brands competes with major hotel chains in national and international markets and with independent companies in regional markets. Our ability to remain competitive and to attract and retain business and leisure travelers depends on our success in distinguishing our products and services from those offered by our competitors. If we are unable to compete successfully in these areas, this could adversely affect our market share and our results of operations. An adverse incident involving our franchisees or their guests, and any media coverage resulting therefrom, could also damage our brands and reputation. The considerable increase in the use of social media over recent years has greatly accelerated the speed at which negative publicity could spread and the scope of its dissemination, and could lead to litigation, increase our costs or result in a loss of consumer confidence in our brands.. Increasing use by consumers of alternative internet reservation channels may decrease loyalty to our brands and our existing distribution channels, and may influence our distribution strategies, in ways that may adversely affect us.. A significant, and increasing, percentage of hotel rooms are booked through internet travel intermediaries. If these intermediaries are successful in continuing to increase their share of bookings, or are otherwise successful in executing strategies to strengthen their commercial and contractual ties to our hotels and hotel guests, these intermediaries may be able to obtain higher commissions, reduced room rates or other significant contractual and operational concessions from our franchisees or us.. Moreover, some of these internet travel intermediaries hope that consumers will eventually develop brand loyalties to their reservations systems rather than to our lodging brands and our existing distribution channels.  As the internet travel intermediary industry continues to consolidate, and/or if well-known or well-financed companies decide to enter the internet travel intermediary space, the resources that the internet travel intermediaries have available and may be willing to apply toward their own marketing and customer loyalty could significantly exceed the resources that we are able to apply for the same purposes.. The increasing use of alternative internet reservation channels influences the way in which we utilize and market the benefits of our existing distribution channel. For example, we have introduced programs such as  \"Best Internet Rate. 26. Table of Contents. Guarantee\" and a closed-user group pricing  to encourage bookings directly through our distribution system. However, there can be no assurance that current margins or levels of utilization associated with these or other strategies will succeed in increasing the booking percentages to our direct channels at the expense of channels controlled by travel intermediaries. In addition, our implementation of programs such as closed-user group pricing may cause travel intermediaries to respond by diverting business away from our hotels, by removing or marginalizing our hotels in search results on their platforms.. Finally, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain stable commercial or contractual relationships with every significant internet travel intermediary, and any resulting instability may have a significant adverse impact on our business, if for example, our brands are not available through one or more of such intermediaries. Relatedly, we may not be able to negotiate mutually acceptable agreements, or renegotiate extensions of agreements with existing internet travel intermediaries upon their expiration, and any such renegotiated or extended agreement may not be entered into on terms as favorable as the provisions that existed before such expiration, replacement or renegotiation.. We and our franchisees are reliant upon technology and the disruption or malfunction in our information systems could adversely affect our business.. The lodging industry depends upon the use of sophisticated technology and systems including those utilized for reservations, property management, procurement, hotel revenue management, operation of our customer loyalty programs and our administrative systems. Consequently, disruptions or malfunctions in technology can impact our revenue as well as our ability to retain existing franchisees and attract new franchisees to our system.  The operation of many of these systems is dependent upon third party data communication networks and software upgrades, maintenance and support. These technologies can be expected to require refinements and there is the risk that advanced new technologies will be introduced. There can be no assurance that as various systems and technologies become outdated or new technology is required we will be able to replace or introduce them as quickly as our competitors or within budgeted costs for such technology.. There can be no assurance that we will achieve the benefits that may have been anticipated from any new technology or system. Further, there can be no assurance that disruptions of the operation of these systems will not occur as a result of failures related to our internal or third party systems and support.. Information technology systems that we rely upon are also vulnerable to damage or interruption from:. • earthquakes, fires, floods and other natural disasters;. • power losses, computer systems failures, internet and telecommunications or data network failures, service provider negligence, improper operation by or supervision of employees, user error, physical and electronic losses of data and similar events; and. • computer viruses, penetration by individuals seeking to disrupt operations or misappropriate information and other breaches of security.. We are subject to risks related to cybersecurity.. The hospitality industry is under increasing attack by cyber-criminals. These attacks can be deliberate attacks or unintentional events that could result in unauthorized disclosure of sensitive information or cause interruptions or delays in our business, loss of data, or render us unable to process reservations.  Accordingly, an extended interruption in any of our systems or the systems of our franchisees could significantly curtail, directly and indirectly, our ability to conduct our business and generate revenue. We have experienced, and expect to continue to be subject to, cybersecurity threats and incidents, none of which have been material to the Company to date.. We seek to minimize the impact of these attacks through various technologies, processes and practices designed to help protect our networks, systems, computers and data from attack, damage or unauthorized access.  However, there are no guarantees that our cyber-security practices will be sufficient to thwart all attacks.  While we carry cyber breach, property and business operation interruption insurance, we may not be sufficiently compensated for all losses we may incur. These losses include not only a loss of revenues but also potential reputational damage to our brands and litigation, fines or regulatory action against us. Furthermore, the Company may also incur substantial remediation costs to repair system damage as well as satisfy liabilities for stolen assets or information that may further reduce our profits.. We may not achieve our objectives for growth in the number of franchised hotels.. The number of properties and rooms franchised under our brands significantly affects our results. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in achieving our objectives with respect to growing the number of franchised hotels in our system or that we will be able to attract qualified franchisees. The growth in the number of franchised hotels is subject to numerous risks, many of which are beyond the control of our franchisees or us. Among other risks, the following factors affect our ability to achieve growth in the number of franchised hotels:. 27. Table of Contents. • the ability of our franchisees to open and operate additional hotels profitably. Factors affecting the opening of new hotels, or the conversion of existing hotels to a Choice brand, include, among others:. • the availability of hotel management, staff and other personnel;. • the cost and availability of suitable hotel locations;. • the availability and cost of capital to allow hotel owners and developers to fund investments;. • cost effective and timely construction of hotels (which construction can be delayed due to, among other reasons, availability of financing, labor and materials availability, labor disputes, local zoning and licensing matters, and weather conditions); and. • securing required governmental permits.. • our ability to continue to enhance our reservation, operational and service delivery systems to support additional franchisees in a timely, cost-effective manner;. • our formal impact policy, which may offer certain franchisees protection from the opening of a same-brand property within a specified distance;. • the effectiveness and efficiency of our development organization;. • our failure to introduce new brands that gain market acceptance;. • our dependence on our independent franchisees' skills and access to financial resources necessary to open the desired number of hotels; and. • our ability to attract and retain qualified domestic and international franchisees.. In addition, we are currently planning to expand our international operations in many of the markets where we currently operate, as well as in selected new markets. This may require considerable management time as well as start-up expenses for market development before any significant revenues and earnings are generated. Operations in new foreign markets may achieve low margins or may be unprofitable, and expansion in existing markets may be affected by local economic and market conditions. Therefore, as we expand internationally, we may not experience the operating margins we expect, our results of operations may be negatively impacted and our stock price may decline.. We are subject to risks relating to the acquisition of new brands or lines of business. From time-to-time, we consider acquisitions of new brands that complement our current portfolio of brands. In many cases, we will be competing for these opportunities with third parties who may have substantially greater financial resources or different or lower acceptable return requirements than we do. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify acquisition candidates, acceptable new markets or complete transactions on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If transactions are consummated or new markets entered, there can be no assurance that any anticipated benefits will actually be realized. Similarly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional financing for acquisitions or investments, or that the ability to obtain such financing will not be restricted by the terms of our existing debt agreements.  Furthermore, if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the acquisition costs are not recoverable, we may be required to record a significant non-cash impairment charge in our financial statements which may negatively impact our results of operations and shareholders' equity.. New brands may not be accepted by franchisees and consumers. We have developed and launched additional hotel brands, such as Cambria hotels and suites and Ascend Hotel Collection, and may develop and launch additional brands in the future.  There can be no assurance regarding the level of acceptance of new brands in the development and consumer marketplaces, that costs incurred to develop the brands will be recovered or that the anticipated benefits from these new brands will be realized.. Our investment in new business lines is inherently risky and could disrupt our core business.. In March 2013, we launched our SkyTouch division which develops and markets cloud-based technology products to the hotel industry.  In 2015, we acquired a Netherlands-based company that provides software as a service solutions for vacation rental management companies.  We expect to continue to invest in these new alternate lines of business and may in the future invest in other new business strategies, products, services, and technologies.. Such investments generally involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management from our core franchising operations, unanticipated expenses, inadequate return of capital on our investments, and unidentified issues and risks not discovered in our development or analysis of such strategies and offerings. For SkyTouch, additional specific risks and uncertainties include, among others, a limited history as a stand-alone operating business, the willingness of our potential competitors to enter into a business relationship with one of our operating divisions, the ability to develop and offer innovative products that appeal to hoteliers, continuing market acceptance of SkyTouch's enterprise cloud-based technology products,. 28. Table of Contents. security threats to processed and stored data, intense competition in the technology industry, protection of intellectual property rights, and claims of infringement of the intellectual property of third parties.. Because these ventures are software and technology businesses, they are inherently risky, and there can be no assurance that our investments will be successful. If we do not realize the financial or strategic goals that are contemplated at the time we commit to significant investments in support of these ventures, our reputation, financial condition, operating results and growth trajectory may be impacted.. Our international operations are subject to political and monetary risks.. We have franchised properties open and operating in more than 40 countries and territories outside of the United States. We also have, and may in the future make, investments in foreign hotel franchisors. International operations generally are subject to greater economic, political and other risks than those affecting United States operations. In certain countries, these risks include the risk of war or civil unrest, political instability, expropriation and nationalization.. Moreover, our international operations are subject to compliance with anti-corruption laws and other foreign laws and regulations. While we have policies in place to enforce and monitor internal and external compliance with anti-corruption laws, we cannot guarantee that our policies will always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees, franchisees or third-parties with whom we work. The United States also imposes sanctions that restrict U.S. companies from engaging in business activities with certain persons or entities, foreign countries, or foreign governments that it determines are adverse to U.S. foreign policy interests. If we are found liable for violations of anti-corruption or sanctions laws, we could incur criminal or civil liabilities which could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations, our financial condition and our reputation.  Furthermore, the creation of new restrictions in these areas could increase our cost of operations, reduce our profits or cause us to forgo development opportunities that would otherwise contribute to our profitability.. Additional factors may also impact our international operations. The laws of some international jurisdictions do not adequately protect our intellectual property and restrict the repatriation of non-United States earnings. Various international jurisdictions also have laws limiting the right and ability of non-United States entities to pay dividends and remit earnings to affiliated companies unless specified conditions have been met. In addition, revenues from international jurisdictions typically are earned in local currencies, which subjects us to risks associated with currency fluctuations. Currency devaluations and unfavorable changes in international monetary and tax policies could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and financing plans, as could other changes in the international regulatory climate. Our future performance could be adversely affected by weak economic conditions in any region where we operate, and uncertainty regarding the pace of economic growth in different regions of the world makes it difficult to predict future profitability levels. We intend to continue to expand internationally, which would make the risks related to our international operations more significant over time.. We may have disputes with the owners of our franchised hotels or their representative franchisee associations.. Our responsibilities under our franchise agreements may be subject to interpretation and may give rise to disagreements in some instances. Such disagreements may be more likely when hotel returns are depressed as a result of economic conditions. We seek to resolve any disagreements in order to develop and maintain positive relations with current and potential hotel owners as well as their representative franchisee associations. However, failure to resolve such disagreements could result in litigation with outcomes that may be adverse to our economic interests.. Development activities that involve our co-investment or financing and guaranty support for third parties may result in losses.. As a result of our program to make financial support available to developers in the form of loans, credit support, such as guarantees, and equity investments, we are subject to investment and credit risks that we would not otherwise be exposed to as a franchisor. In particular, when we make loans to franchisees, agree to provide loan guarantees for the benefit of franchisees, or make equity investments in franchisees, we are subject to all generally applicable credit and investment risks, such as:. • construction delays, cost overruns, or acts of God such as earthquakes, hurricanes, floods or fires that may increase overall project costs or result in project cancellations;. •the possibility that the parties with which we have entered into a co-investment, financing or guaranty relationships could become bankrupt or otherwise lack the financial resources to meet their obligations, or could have or develop business interests, policies or objectives that are inconsistent with ours; and. •that conditions within credit or capital markets may limit the ability of franchisees to raise additional debt or equity that may be required for completion of projects.. In addition to general credit and capital markets risks, we face specific risks stemming from our ability to assess the existing and future financial strength of the franchisee and its principals, the development/construction abilities of the franchisee, the expected performance of the hotel in light of the forecasted general, regional and market-specific economic. 29. Table of Contents. climate, and the ability to negotiate for, value, and if necessary collect security for our loans or obligations. If we do not accurately assess these risks, our assumptions used to make these estimates prove inaccurate, or situations in the credit market or hospitality industry change in a manner we did not anticipate, our loans and investments may become impaired and/or we may be required to make payment under guarantees we have issued. In such instances, there is no assurance that we will be able to recover any or all of such impaired or paid amounts, in which case we will experience losses which could be material.. Development activities that involve our investment in real estate to stimulate the development of new brands may result in exposure to losses.. The Company is engaged in a program to identify real estate for potential developers to acquire and be utilized for hotel development. The Company's intent is to identify potential development sites so that developers may acquire the site and commence construction of a hotel franchised under one of the Company's brands. However, in certain circumstances, the Company has acquired, and continues to acquire, the real estate prior to identifying a potential developer for the project. As a result, we are subject to the investment risk that we would not otherwise be exposed to as a franchisor. In particular, we face specific risks stemming from (1) our ability to assess the fair market value of the real estate; (2) the location's suitability for development as a hotel; (3) the availability of zoning or other local approvals needed for development; and (4) the availability and pricing of capital. Although we actively seek to minimize these risks prior to acquiring real estate, there is no assurance that we will be able to recover the costs of our investments in which case we will experience losses which could be material.. Investing through joint ventures decreases our ability to manage risk.. We have invested, and expect to continue to invest in real estate and other hospitality related joint ventures. Joint venturers often have shared control over the operation of the joint venture assets and therefore these investments may involve risks such as the possibility that the co-venturer in an investment might become bankrupt or not have the financial resources to meet its obligations, or have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals. Consequently, actions by a co-venturer might subject us to additional risk, require greater financial support from the Company than initially forecasted or result in actions that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals.. Under certain circumstances our franchisees may terminate our franchise contracts.. We franchise hotels to independent third parties pursuant to franchise agreements. These agreements may be terminated, renegotiated or expire but typically have an initial term of between ten and thirty years. These agreements also typically contain provisions permitting either party to terminate the franchise agreement upon designated anniversaries of the agreement under certain circumstances and depending on the particular hotel brand that is licensed to the franchisee. While our franchise agreements provide for liquidated damages to be paid to us by franchisees whose agreements have been terminated as the result of a violation of the provisions of the agreement, these damage amounts are typically less than the fees we would have received if the terminated franchisee fulfilled its contractual obligations. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to replace expired or terminated franchise agreements, or that the provisions of renegotiated or new agreements will be as favorable as the provisions that existed before such expiration, replacement or renegotiation. As a result, our revenues could be negatively impacted.. Deterioration in the general financial condition of our franchisees may adversely affect our results.. Our operating results are impacted by the ability of our franchisees to generate revenues at properties they franchise from us. An extended period of occupancy or room rate declines may adversely affect the operating results and financial condition of our franchisees. These negative operating conditions could result in the financial failure of our owners and result in a termination of the franchisee for non-payment of franchise fees or require the transfer of ownership of the franchise. In those instances where ownership is transferred, there can be no assurance that the new owners will choose to affiliate with our brands.. The hotel industry is highly competitive. Competition for hotel guests is based primarily on the level of service, quality of accommodations, convenience of locations and room rates. Our franchisees compete for guests with other hotel properties in their geographic markets. Some of their competitors may have substantially greater marketing and financial resources than our franchisees, and they may construct new facilities or improve their existing facilities, reduce their prices or expand and improve their marketing programs in ways that adversely affect our franchisees' operating results and financial condition. In addition, the ability of our franchisees to compete for guests directly impacts the desirability of our brands to current and prospective franchisees.. These factors, among others, could adversely affect the operating results and financial condition of our franchisees and result in declines in the number of franchised properties and/or franchise fees and other revenues derived from our franchising business. In addition, at times, the Company provides financial support to our franchisees via notes and guarantees. Factors that. 30. Table of Contents. may adversely affect the operating results and financial condition of these franchisees may result in the Company incurring losses related to this financial support.. We may not be able to recover advances for system services that we may at certain times provide to our franchisees.. The Company is obligated to use the system fees it collects from the current franchisees comprising its various hotel brands to provide system services, such as marketing and reservations services, appropriate to fulfill our obligations under the Company's franchise agreements. In discharging our obligation to provide sufficient and appropriate system services, the Company has the right to expend funds in an amount reasonably necessary to ensure the provision of such services, regardless of whether or not such amount is currently available to the Company for reimbursement.. Under the terms of its franchise agreements, the Company has the contractually enforceable right to assess and collect from its current franchisees fees sufficient to pay for the system services the Company has provided or procured for the benefit of its franchisees, including fees to reimburse the Company for past services rendered. The Company's current franchisees are contractually obligated to pay any assessment the Company imposes on them to obtain reimbursement of any systems services advances regardless of whether the franchisees continue to generate gross room revenue and whether or not they joined the system following the deficit's occurrence. However, our ability to recover these advances may be adversely impacted by certain factors, including, among others, declines in the ability of our franchisees to generate revenues at properties they franchise from us. An extended period of occupancy or room rate declines or a decline in the number of hotel rooms in our franchise system could result in the generation of insufficient funds to recover system services advances as well as meet the ongoing system service needs of our franchisees.. Our franchisees may fail to make investments necessary to maintain or improve their properties, preference for our brands and our reputation could suffer and our franchise agreements with these franchisees could terminate.. Our franchised properties are governed by the terms of franchise agreements. Substantially all of these agreements require property owners to comply with standards that are essential to maintaining our brand integrity and reputation. We depend on our franchisees to comply with these requirements by maintaining and improving properties through investments, including investments in furniture, fixtures, amenities and personnel.. Franchisees may be unable to access capital or unwilling to spend available capital when necessary, even if required by the terms of our franchise agreements. If our franchisees fail to make investments necessary to maintain or improve the properties we franchise, our brand preference and reputation could suffer. In addition, if franchisees breach the terms of our agreements with them, we may elect to exercise our termination rights, which would eliminate the revenues we earn from these properties and cause us to incur expenses related to terminating these relationships. These risks become more pronounced during economic downturns.. We are dependent upon our ability to attract and retain key officers and other highly qualified personnel.. Our future success and our ability to manage future growth depend in large part upon the efforts and skills of our senior management and our ability to attract and retain key officers and other highly qualified personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense. There can be no assurance that we will continue to be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our senior management will be able to successfully execute and implement our growth and operating strategies.. We are subject to certain risks related to our indebtedness.. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we fail to generate sufficient cash flow from future operations to meet our debt service obligations, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our debt on attractive terms, commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our future operating performance and our ability to service, extend or refinance our indebtedness will be subject to future economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control.  Our present indebtedness and future borrowings could have important adverse consequences to us, such as:. • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our existing indebtedness;. • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing;. • requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow to be used for principal and interest payments on the debt, thereby reducing our ability to use cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, pay dividends and/or repurchase our common stock;. • limiting our ability to respond to changing business, industry and economic conditions and to withstand competitive pressures, which may affect our financial condition;. 31. Table of Contents. • causing us to incur higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates on our borrowings that have variable interest rates or in the event of refinancing existing debt at higher interest rates;. • limiting our ability to make investments or acquisitions;. • increasing our vulnerability to downturns in our business, our industry or the general economy and restricting us from making improvements or acquisitions or exploring business opportunities;. • placing us at a competitive disadvantage to competitors with less debt or greater resources; and. • subjecting us to financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness the non-compliance with which could result in an event of default.. A portion of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest, and to the extent not protected with interest rate hedges, could expose us to market risk from adverse changes in interest rates. Unless we enter into interest rate hedges, if interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable-rate indebtedness could increase significantly even though the amount borrowed would remain the same.. Anti-takeover provisions may prevent a change in control.. Our restated certificate of incorporation and the Delaware General Corporation Law each contain provisions that could have the effect of making it more difficult for a party to acquire, and may discourage a party from attempting to acquire, control of our Company without approval of our board of directors. These provisions together with the concentration of our share ownership could discourage tender offers or other bids for our common stock at a premium over market price.. The concentration of share ownership may influence the outcome of certain matters.. The concentration of share ownership by our directors and affiliates allows them to substantially influence the outcome of matters requiring shareholder approval. As a result, acting together, they may be able to control or substantially influence the outcome of matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the elections of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as mergers, acquisitions and equity compensation plans.. Government franchise and tax regulation could impact our business.. The Federal Trade Commission (the \"FTC\"), various states and certain foreign jurisdictions where we market franchises regulate the sale of franchises. The FTC requires franchisors to make extensive disclosure to prospective franchisees but does not require registration. A number of states in which our franchisees operate require registration and disclosure in connection with franchise offers and sales. In addition, several states in which our franchisees operate have \"franchise relationship laws\" that limit the ability of the franchisor to terminate franchise agreements or to withhold consent to the renewal or transfer of these agreements. While our business has not been materially affected by such regulation, there can be no assurance that this will continue or that future regulation or legislation will not have such an effect.. The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires estimation and significant judgment and there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Like many other multinational corporations, we are subject to tax in multiple United States and foreign tax jurisdictions and have structured our operations to reduce our effective tax rate. Our determination of our tax liability is always subject to audit and review by applicable domestic and foreign tax authorities. Any adverse outcome of any such audit or review could have a negative effect on our business, operating results and financial condition, and the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made.. In addition, recently enacted tax legislation in the United States has made significant changes to the taxation of United States corporations.  Although the legislation generally provides for a decrease in federal corporate tax rates, the legislation is highly complex and will require interpretations and implementing regulations by the Internal Revenue Service and state tax authorities.  Additionally, the legislation could be subject to potential challenges, future amendments and technical corrections, any of which could increase or decrease the impact of the legislation on us.  Moreover, past economic downturns reduced tax revenues for United States federal and state governments and as a result proposals to increase taxes from corporate entities have been considered at various levels of government.  At this time, while we expect the decrease in the federal corporate tax rates to provide increased cash flow compared to prior years, we cannot predict the ultimate impact of the tax legislation on our business or results of operations.. We are subject to certain risks related to litigation filed by or against us.. We cannot predict with certainty the cost of defense, the cost of prosecution or the ultimate outcome of litigation filed by or against us, including, remedies or damage awards. This litigation may involve, but is not limited to, actions or negligence by franchisees outside of our control. Our franchise agreements provide that we are not liable for the actions of our franchisees; however, there is no guarantee that we would be insulated from liability in all cases.  Moreover, we may be involved in matters. 32. Table of Contents. such as class actions, administrative proceedings, employment and personal injury claims, and litigation with or involving our relationship with franchisees and the legal distinction between our franchisees and us for employment law or general liability purposes, for which the cost and other effects of defense, settlements or judgments may require us to make disclosures or take other actions that may affect perceptions of our brand and products and adversely affect our business results.. Failure to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property could impact our business.. We believe that our trademarks and other intellectual property are fundamental to our brands and our franchising business. We generate, maintain, license and enforce a substantial portfolio of trademarks and other intellectual property rights. We enforce our intellectual property rights to protect the value of our trademarks, our development activities, to protect our good name, to promote our brand name recognition, to enhance our competitiveness and to otherwise support our business goals and objectives. We rely on trademark laws to protect our proprietary rights. Monitoring the unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult. Litigation has been and may continue to be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Litigation of this type could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, may result in counterclaims or other claims against us and could significantly harm our results of operations. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. From time to time, we apply to have certain trademarks registered. There is no guarantee that such trademark registrations will be granted. We cannot assure you that all of the steps we have taken to protect our trademarks in the United States and foreign countries will be adequate to prevent imitation of our trademarks by others. The unauthorized reproduction of our trademarks could diminish the value of our brand and its market acceptance, competitive advantages or goodwill, which could adversely affect our business.. Failure to maintain the integrity of internal or customer data could result in faulty business decisions, damage of reputation and/or subject us to costs, fines or lawsuits.. Our business requires the collection and retention of large volumes of internal and customer data, including credit card numbers and other personally identifiable information of our employees and customers as such information is entered into, processed, summarized, and reported by the various information systems we use. The integrity and protection of that customer, employee, and company data is critical to us. Our customers have a high expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information, and the regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, both in the United States and in the international jurisdictions in which we operate. If the Company fails to maintain compliance with the various United States and international laws and regulations applicable to the protection of such data or with the Payment Card Industry (\"PCI\") data security standards, the Company's ability to process such data could be adversely impacted and expose the Company to fines, litigation or other expenses or sanctions.. Changes in privacy laws could adversely affect our ability to transfer guest data and market our products effectively and could impact our results from operations or result in costs and fines.. Our business operations are subject to various United States and international privacy and data protection laws.   Any future changes or restrictions in United States or international privacy and data protection laws could adversely affect our operations, including our ability to transfer guest data, which could adversely impact guest bookings. For example, the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which is effective beginning in May 2018, creates new compliance obligations and increases financial penalties for non-compliance. Compliance with requirements imposed by GDPR and similar laws, or any future changes or additional restrictions, could result in significant costs and require us to change some of our business practices. Failure to comply could expose the Company to fines, litigation, or other expenses or sanctions.. We also rely on a variety of direct marketing techniques, including telemarketing, email, marketing and postal mailings. Any future restrictions in laws such as Telemarketing Sales Rule, CANSPAM Act, and various United States state laws, or new federal laws regarding marketing and solicitation or international data protection laws that govern these activities could adversely affect the continuing effectiveness of telemarketing, email and postal mailing techniques and could force changes in our marketing strategies. If this occurs, we may not be able to develop adequate alternative marketing strategies, which could impact the amount and timing of our revenues. We also obtain access to potential customers from travel service providers and other companies with whom we have substantial relationships and market to some individuals on these lists directly or by including our marketing message in the other company's marketing materials. If access to these lists was prohibited or otherwise restricted, our ability to develop new customers and introduce them to our products could be impaired.. We depend on the skill, ability and decisions of third party operators.. The Company utilizes third party operators to provide significant franchise services, such as providing general reservation call center services, providing loyalty member call center support, providing data center co-location services, inspecting its franchisees and providing support and data for the use of its property management and central reservation. 33. Table of Contents. services systems.  In addition, the Company relies on third party providers to provide market and competitor information that is utilized in the Company's strategic decision making process.  The failure of any third-party operator or provider to make decisions, perform their services, discharge their obligations, deal with regulatory agencies, provide accurate information and comply with laws, rules and regulations could result in material adverse consequences to our business.. We may identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting which could, if not remediated, result in a material misstatement of our financial statements.. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over our financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act. The Company's internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting  principles. However, our management does not expect that our disclosure controls or our internal control over financial reporting will prevent all errors and fraud.  A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system's objectives will be met. Furthermore, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.. We are subject to risks relating to events such as acts of God, terrorist activity, epidemics and war.. Our financial and operating performance may be adversely affected by sudden or unexpected events such as acts of God, including natural disasters and/or pandemics, epidemics, the spread of contagious diseases, terrorist activities, political instability, civil unrest and acts of war affecting locations where we have a high concentration of franchisees and areas of the world from which our franchisees draw a large number of guests."
