[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our business is subject to a variety of risks. Thus, an investment in our stock is also subject to risk. The following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking statements that are contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (\"Report\"), as well as certain of our other filings made or to be made with the SEC. Any of the following risks and uncertainties could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, the trading price of our stock and/or the outcome of matters with respect to which forward-looking statements are made in this Report. The risk factors described below should not be construed as an exhaustive list of all the risks we face nor are they listed in order of the likelihood that the risk may occur or the severity of the impact if the risk should occur.  We operate in a continually changing business environment and new risk factors emerge from time to time.  There can be no. 6. Table of Contents. assurance that we have identified, assessed and appropriately addressed all risks affecting our business operations.  Additional risks and uncertainties could adversely affect our business and our results.. General economic conditions in the United States may adversely affect our business.. All of our stores are located within the United States, making us highly susceptible to macroeconomic conditions and consumer confidence in the United States. Apparel retailing is a volatile industry that is highly dependent upon the overall level of consumer spending and consumer confidence. Because apparel typically is a discretionary purchase, declines in consumer spending may have a more negative effect on apparel retailers than on other retailers.  In addition, consumer spending habits continue to shift toward an increasing preference to purchase merchandise digitally as opposed to in traditional brick-and-mortar retail stores.. Certain factors that could adversely affect the demand for our products include recessionary economic cycles, higher interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, inflation, increases in commodity prices, higher levels of unemployment, higher consumer debt levels and changes in tax laws, any or all of which could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow.. The ability to attract customers to our stores depends heavily on customer traffic at malls and centers in which our stores are located.. The majority of our stores are located in shopping malls and other retail centers. Sales at these stores are derived in considerable part from the volume of traffic generated in those malls or retail centers and surrounding areas. The continued decrease in traffic at malls and shopping centers where our stores are located, the closing of Anchor stores important to driving mall traffic could result in lower sales and leave us with excess inventory. In such circumstances, we may have to respond by increasing markdowns or initiating marketing promotions to reduce excess inventory, which could adversely impact our financial results, business and cash flow.. Improving our store productivity will be largely dependent upon the performance of our missy, petite and women's format (\"MPW stores\") including our outlet stores.. Improving the performance of our existing stores and optimizing our store productivity is critical to improving our sales and returning to profitability. Over the past several years, the Company has opened a number of outlet stores and converted existing C&B and C.J. Banks' stores into MPW stores such that approximately 68% of our stores (including outlets) at fiscal year-end were in the MPW format. If we are unable to improve the overall performance and store productivity of the MPW stores, our revenues, margins, liquidity, cash flow and results of operations could be adversely affected.. We are subject to risks associated with leasing all of our store locations.. We currently lease all of our store locations. Our leases range from month-to-month to approximately ten years in length. A number of our leases have early termination provisions that apply if we do not achieve specified sales levels, in some cases allow us to pay reduced rent based on a percent of sales and we or the landlord may terminate the lease. The leases for approximately 30% of our store base expire between February 4, 2018 and February 2, 2019, including those leases which are month to month. We believe that, over the last few years, we have generally been able to negotiate favorable rental rates. Going forward we may need to close additional stores if we fail to achieve certain sales levels and we may not be able to generally renew our leases on as favorable terms, or at all. As a result, we may need to pay higher occupancy costs or close stores, which could adversely impact our financial performance, results of operations and cash flow. In addition, economic conditions could negatively impact the Company's retail landlords, particularly class C&D quality malls where the majority of our brick-and-mortar stores are located. That, in turn, could affect their ability to maintain their shopping centers, including a high level of sustained occupancy, and otherwise perform their obligations, which could negatively impact customer traffic, our sales, results of operations and cash flow.. We have, and will continue to have, significant lease obligations.  If an existing or future store is not profitable, and we decide to close it, we may nonetheless be committed to fulfill our obligations under the applicable lease including paying the base rent for the balance of the lease term.  Additionally, continued consolidation in the commercial retail real estate market could affect our ability to successfully negotiate favorable rental terms for our stores in the future and could concentrate our leases with fewer landlords who may then be in a position to dictate unfavorable terms to us due to their significant negotiating leverage.  If we are unable to enter into new leases or renew existing leases on terms acceptable to us or be released from our obligations under leases for stores that could have a material effect on our business, operational results, financial condition and cash flow.. 7. Table of Contents. Our business is undergoing a change in our Chief Executive Officer (\"CEO\") and changes to our business operations are expected to follow. If we do not successfully implement and adapt to these changes, it could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We recently announced that Keri L. Jones will be joining the Company as Chief Executive Officer in mid-March 2018 replacing Joel Waller who has been our interim President & CEO since January of 2017.  In connection with this change in management, we anticipate that there will be changes to the Company's operations and also possibly to some of our key strategies and tactical initiatives over time. If we do not successfully implement and adapt to these changes they may not lead to the desired improvement in our business and results of operation. This in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business.. If we are unable to increase sales and achieve and sustain an acceptable level of gross margin, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, profitability and liquidity.. While we saw improvements in sales comps and gross margins during the fourth quarter as compared to last year, for the recently completed fiscal year total sales, comparable stores sales and gross margin rate were below our expectations. Our ability to reverse this trend is subject to a variety of challenges. If we cannot increase our comparable store sales and improve our gross margin rate; it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity and financial condition.. Our fiscal 2018 plan to improve the Company's financial performance is dependent upon our ability to successfully implement our strategic and tactical initiatives.. The Company's fiscal 2018 operational plan contemplates growth in sales and comparable store sales; improved selling, general and administrative expense leverage; and gross margin rate improvement intended to result in improved operating income results as compared to fiscal 2017. We plan to achieve this through a variety of merchandise initiatives, increased customer spending and attracting and retaining new customers. Our ability to achieve this plan depends upon a variety of factors, including a number of factors that are beyond our control. If we are unable to successfully implement and execute the strategic and tactical initiatives underlying our fiscal 2018 plan, our results of operations, financial condition, cash flow and liquidity could be adversely affected.. Our sales and results of operations could be adversely affected if we fail to attract, retain or recruit key personnel as well as attract, develop and retain qualified employees.. Our performance is highly dependent on attracting and retaining qualified employees, including our new CEO, members of senior management and other key personnel. A significant amount of turnover of management employees with specific knowledge relating to our operations and industry could result in a loss of organizational focus and an inability to identify or properly execute key strategies and tactical initiatives. Also, if we are unable to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified sales associates at acceptable wage levels that may impair our efficiency and effectiveness in serving our customers and in generating sales. That, in turn, could adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. Fundamental shifts in the retail industry and the competitive environment could impact our revenues, operational results and market share.. The women's specialty retail apparel business is highly competitive. We believe we compete primarily with department stores, specialty stores, discount stores, mass merchandisers, and on line businesses that sell women's apparel. Many of our competitors are significantly larger with greater resources available to them, may offer a broader selection of merchandise than we do, and have greater brand recognition and comparatively lower costs of operations. They also may be able to adapt to changes in customer preferences more quickly, as well as respond faster to economic, operational, regulatory or organizational changes. In addition to competing for sales, we compete for favorable store locations, lease terms and qualified associates. Increased competition in any of these areas could result in higher costs, which could reduce our revenue and gross margins.. Failure to maintain our reputation and brand image or to successfully execute our marketing initiatives could have a negative impact on our business.. Our ability to maintain our brand image and reputation is integral to our business as well as the implementation of strategies to expand it. Maintaining, promoting and growing our brand will depend largely on the success of our merchandising and marketing efforts and our ability to provide a consistent, high-quality customer experience that retains existing customers and. 8. Table of Contents. attracts a sufficient level of new customers to shop our brand, both in-store and online. Our ability to address the challenges of declining store traffic at our brick-and-mortar stores, in a highly promotional, low growth environment may impact our ability to maintain or gain market share and also impact our sales, business, operational results, financial position and cash flow. In addition, the receipt of negative publicity could adversely impact our brand and the brand loyalty of our customers, which would adversely impact our business.. Our business depends on effective marketing, advertising and promotional programs.. Customer traffic and demand for our merchandise is influenced by our advertising, marketing and promotional activities, the name recognition and reputation of our brands, and the location and service offered in our stores.  Although we use marketing, advertising and promotional programs to attract customers through various media, our competitors may spend more or use different approaches, which could provide them with a competitive advantage.  Our promotional activity and other programs may not be effective, may be perceived negatively or could require increased expenditures, which could adversely impact our business, operational results, financial position and cash flow.. Customer tastes and fashion apparel trends tend to change rapidly.  Our ability to anticipate or react to changing consumer preferences in a timely and accurate manner and offer a compelling product at an attractive price impacts our sales, gross margins, financial condition and results of operations.. Our success depends on our ability to consistently gauge and respond on a timely basis to fashion trends and customer preferences, which preferences can change rapidly. Forecasting consumer demand for our merchandise and allocating the right amount and sizes of such merchandise to individual stores and to our eCommerce business can be challenging. In addition, our merchandise assortment differs from season to season. This may involve changes in our overall mix of fashion versus core merchandise which in turn may impact our overall product cost as the average unit cost of fashion product is generally higher than core product.. If we are unable to successfully identify or react to changing styles or trends or misjudge the market for our products or any new product lines, our sales and gross margins may be lower and the Company may be faced with a significant amount of unsold finished goods inventory.  In response, the Company may be forced to increase its marketing promotions or price markdowns, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and liquidity.. On the other hand, if we underestimate demand for our merchandise, we may experience inventory shortages, resulting in missed sales opportunities and lost revenues.. There are risks associated with our eCommerce business.. We sell merchandise over the Internet through our web site, www.christopherandbanks.com, which represents a growing percentage of our overall net sales. The successful operation of our eCommerce business depends on our ability to maintain the continuous operation of our eCommerce website and our fulfillment operations, and to provide a shopping experience that will generate both orders and return visits to our site. Our eCommerce operations are subject to numerous risks, including:. • disruption to the Internet;. • unanticipated operating problems;. • rapid technological change;. • the successful implementation of, and costs to implement, new systems and upgrades including those related to the operation of our website platform;. • reliance on third parties with respect to the operation of the website, order fulfillment and customer service and such third parties' infrastructure;. • diversion of sales from our stores;. • liability for online content;. • lack of compliance with, or violations of, applicable state or federal laws and regulations;. • increased or unfavorable governmental regulation of eCommerce (which may include regulation of privacy, data protection, eCommerce payment services, content, accessibility and other related subjects);. • credit card fraud;. • the ability to process credit card transactions;. • system failures or disruptions and security breaches and the costs to address and remedy such failures, disruptions or breaches;. • lack of sufficient levels of inventory of product or sizes to meet online demand; and. 9. Table of Contents. • untimely delivery of our merchandise to our customers by third parties.. If we fail to successfully address and respond to these risks, it could negatively impact our brand and reputation and have a material adverse effect on our eCommerce sales, operating results, financial position and cash flow. There also can be no assurance that our eCommerce operations will meet our sales and profitability plans, and the failure to do so also could negatively impact our revenues and earnings.. If we are unable to successfully implement and optimize our omni-channel retail strategy, our financial results would be adversely affected.. We are committed to growing our business through our omni-channel retail strategy. Our goal is to offer our customer seamless access to our brands and merchandise whenever and wherever they choose to shop. Accordingly, our success also depends on our ability to anticipate and implement innovations in sales and marketing strategies to appeal to existing and potential customers who increasingly rely on multiple channels to meet their shopping needs. Failing to successfully implement and optimize our omni-channel retail strategy could have a material adverse effect on our business, operational results, financial position and cash flow.. Costs of raw materials, commodities, transportation or labor may rise resulting in an increase in component and delivery costs, and overall product costs, all of which could erode margins and impact our profitability.. The raw materials and labor used to manufacture our products, and our transportation and contract manufacturing labor costs are subject to availability constraints and price volatility. The results of our business operations could suffer due to significant increases or volatility in the prices of certain commodities, including but not limited to cotton, synthetics and other items used in the production of our apparel, as well as fuel, oil and natural gas. Price increases of these items or other inflationary pressures may result in significant cost increases for our raw materials, product components and finished products, as well as increases in the cost of distributing merchandise to our retail locations. To the extent that we cannot offset increases in the cost of goods with other cost reductions or efficiencies or the sale of products at higher prices and with the desired level of gross margin, it could have a negative effect on our gross profits.. Our reliance on foreign sources of production poses various risks.. Because a significant portion of our merchandise is produced overseas, primarily in China and Vietnam, we are subject to the various risks of doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise from abroad, such as:. • delays in the delivery of cargo;. • imposition of, or increases in, duties, taxes or other charges on imports;. • new legislation or regulations;. • financial or political instability in any of the countries in which our merchandise is manufactured;. • significant fluctuations in the value of the dollar against foreign currencies or restrictions on the transfer of funds, or additional trade restrictions imposed by the United States or foreign governments;. • supply chain security initiatives undertaken by the United States or foreign governments that delay or impede the delivery of imports and the normal flow of product;. • delayed receipt or non-delivery of goods due to the failure of suppliers to comply with applicable import regulations;. • delayed receipt or non-delivery of goods due to labor strikes or unexpected or significant port congestion at United States or foreign ports;. • potential recalls or cancellations of orders for any merchandise that does not meet our quality standards;. • inability to meet our production needs due to labor shortages; and. • natural disasters, extreme weather, political or military conflicts, terrorism, disease epidemics and public health related concerns, which could result in closed factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials and embargoing or increased scrutiny (and the resulting delays) of goods produced in affected areas.. Any of the foregoing factors, or a combination of them, could increase our costs or result in our inability to obtain sufficient quantities of merchandise, thereby negatively impacting our sales, gross profit, operating income, financial condition and liquidity.. It is also possible that the inability of our suppliers to access credit may cause them to extend less favorable terms to us, which could adversely affect our cash flow, gross margins, financial condition and liquidity. Additionally, delays by our vendors in supplying our inventory needs could cause us to incur more expensive transportation charges, which may adversely affect our margins.. 10. Table of Contents. Potential changes in trade regulations or tax changes related to the importation of goods could adversely affect our business, financial conditions and results of operations.. A significant portion of our goods are imported, with China representing the largest supplier of such imported goods. President Trump has expressed a dislike for certain international trade agreements, expressed a desire for reduced trade with China and/or the imposition higher tariffs on products imported from China. It is possible the United States may impose new trade or other initiatives that adversely affect the trading status of countries where our apparel is manufactured and such initiatives could include retaliatory duties, higher tariffs or other trade sanctions that, if enacted, would increase the cost of products imported from countries where our suppliers manufacture merchandise. As a result, such goods may no longer be affordable at a commercially attractive price which could result in our seeking new suppliers in countries with which we have little or no experience. It is also possible the United States may change the tax laws relating to imported goods. One or more of such changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations.. A significant portion of our merchandise is ordered through a small number of suppliers and our business could suffer if we needed to replace them.. We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities. Instead we depend on independent third parties to manufacture our merchandise. For the most recently completed fiscal year, our ten largest suppliers accounted for approximately 71% of the merchandise we purchased, and we purchased 27% and 9% of our goods respectively from our two largest suppliers.. We generally maintain non-exclusive relationships with the suppliers that manufacture our merchandise, and we compete with other companies for production facilities. As a result, we have no contractual assurances of continued supply or pricing, and any supplier, including our key suppliers, could discontinue selling to us at any time. Moreover, a key supplier may not be able to supply our inventory needs due to capacity constraints, financial instability or other factors beyond our control, or we could decide to stop using a supplier due to quality or other performance or cost issues. If we determine to cease doing business with one or more of our key suppliers or if a key supplier becomes unable to supply desired merchandise in sufficient quantities on acceptable terms, we could experience delays in the receipt of inventory until alternative supply arrangements were secured; such delays could result in lost sales and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and liquidity.. If third parties with whom we do business do not adequately perform, or are unable or unwilling to perform, their functions, we might experience disruptions in our business, resulting in decreased profits, or losses, and damage to our reputation.. We depend upon independent third parties, both domestic and foreign, for the manufacture of all of the goods that we sell. The inability of a manufacturer to ship orders in a timely manner or to meet our standards could have a material adverse impact on our business.. We are party to contracts, transactions and business relationships with various third parties, including vendors, suppliers, service providers and lenders, pursuant to which such third parties have performance, payment and other obligations to us. In some cases, the Company depends upon such third parties to provide essential products, services or other benefits in order to operate the Company's business in the ordinary course.. Adverse economic, industry or market conditions could result in an increased risk to the Company associated with the potential financial distress or insolvency of such third parties. Failure by any of these third parties to perform these functions effectively, properly and timely, or any disruption in our business relationships with any of these third parties, could negatively impact our operations, profitability and reputation.. Our business and reputation could suffer if one or more of our suppliers or the factories they use fails to comply with applicable laws or to follow acceptable labor practices, or is accused of such non-compliance.. Our success depends, in part, on the suppliers of our goods and the factories that they use to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations and to comply with our vendor code of conduct. Each of our purchase orders requires adherence to accepted labor practices, applicable laws and compliance with our vendor code of conduct. However, we do not supervise or control our suppliers or the factories that produce the merchandise we sell or their labor and business practices. We rely on the staff of third-party auditing services and our non-exclusive buying agents to periodically visit and monitor the operations of a number of our independent factories to, among other things, assess compliance with our vendor code of conduct and applicable laws. Moreover, apparel companies can, in some cases, be held jointly liable for the wrongdoings of the suppliers of their products. In addition, we cannot control the public's perceptions of such suppliers or factories, even if they are compliant with applicable law but are nonetheless viewed in a negative light by the public. Their failure to comply with our. 11. Table of Contents. vendor code of conduct, applicable laws or otherwise avoid creating negative consumer perceptions about their manufacturing methods and work environment, could damage our reputation, interrupt or disrupt the shipment of products, result in a decrease in customer traffic to our stores and website, and adversely affect our sales and consequently our results of operations.. There are risks relating to the operation of the ports through which our goods are shipped and to the transportation of our merchandise to our distribution center, to our eCommerce fulfillment center, to our stores, and to our eCommerce customers.. The vast majority of our products are shipped by ocean from overseas. There are risks associated with a disruption in the operation of ports through which our products are shipped, which are primarily ports on the West Coast. If that were to occur, we are likely to experience delays in the receipt of products, and we or our suppliers may have to find alternative shipping methods, possibly at greater expense and costs and increased lead times. We currently rely upon independent third-party transportation providers for substantially all of our merchandise shipments, including shipments to our distribution center, our stores, our eCommerce fulfillment center and our eCommerce customers. Our use of outside delivery services for shipments is subject to a variety of risks which may impact a shipper's ability to provide delivery services that adequately meet our shipping needs at an acceptable cost. If we change shipping companies, we could face logistical difficulties that could adversely impact deliveries and we would incur costs and expend resources in connection with such a change. Moreover, we may not be able to obtain terms as favorable as those received from the independent third-party transportation providers we currently use, which would increase our costs. If we were to experience any of these risks, it could adversely affect our costs, results of operations, gross profit and financial condition.. Instability in the shipping industry and a trucking shortage could increase our costs, result in delays in the receipt or loss of merchandise and adversely impact our results of operations.. In fiscal 2016, the seventh largest deep sea cargo transportation carrier filed for court receivership. This had a variety of repercussions throughout the shipping industry. While we do not rely on a single ocean carrier company to transport our goods, further disruption or instability among transportation carriers could result in reduced capacity, increased rates, delay in the receipt of or the loss of goods. This, in turn, could increase our costs, result in lost sales or sales at lower margins negatively impacting our operations, financial results, cash flow and liquidity. In addition, a recent nationwide truck shortage has impacted the trucking industry, causing delays and increases in prices. While the Company transports most of its imports by rail, the trucking shortage could make it more difficult to hire trucks to deliver rail shipments to us. If that were to occur, it would likely increase our costs, delay receipt of merchandise which in turn could lead to lost sales and sales at lower margins negatively impacting our operations, financial results, cash flow and liquidity.. We depend on a single facility to conduct our operations and distribute our merchandise. Our business could suffer a material adverse effect if this facility's operations was shut down or severely disrupted.. Our corporate headquarters, data center and our only distribution facility are located in one facility in Plymouth, Minnesota which facility is more than 45 years old. Our distribution facility supplies merchandise to our retail stores and our third party eCommerce fulfillment center. Any serious disruption to our distribution facility or a facility closure for any reason, could delay shipments to stores and our eCommerce fulfillment center and result in inventory shortages which could negatively impact our sales and results of operations. In addition, our main data center and all of our senior management, including critical resources dedicated to merchandising, operations, marketing, finance and administrative functions, are located at our corporate headquarters. In the event of a disaster or other calamity impacting our corporate facility or data center, our management and staff would have to find and operate out of other suitable locations and/or rely on alternative sources for computer, telecommunications and data storage systems. We have little experience operating essential functions away from our main corporate office and are uncertain what effect operating such satellite facilities might have on business, personnel and results of operations.. Although we maintain business interruption and property insurance, we cannot be assured that our insurance coverage will be sufficient or that any insurance proceeds will be timely paid to us if our distribution center or corporate office were shut down for any unplanned reason.. If our long-lived assets become impaired, we may need to record significant non-cash impairment charges.. Periodically, we review our long-lived assets for impairment whenever economic events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable.  If an individual store location is unable to generate sufficient future cash flow, we may be required to record a partial or full impairment of that store's assets. In addition, significant negative industry or general economic trends, disruptions to our business and unexpected significant changes or planned changes in our. 12. Table of Contents. use of the assets (such as store relocations or closures) may also result in impairment charges.  Any such impairment charges, if significant, could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations.. Extreme and/or unseasonable weather conditions in the United States could have a disproportionate effect on our business, results of operations and cash flow.. Extreme weather conditions in the areas in which our stores are located could negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operation and cash flow. For example, inclement weather or extreme conditions can make it difficult for our customers to travel to our stores, result in temporary store closures and/or reduced hours of operation and may cause a disruption in the shipment or receipt of merchandise. Our business is also susceptible to unseasonable weather conditions. For example, extended periods of unseasonably warm temperatures during the winter season or cool weather during the summer season could render a portion of our merchandise offerings incompatible with those unseasonable conditions in the affected areas. Such unseasonable weather conditions could have an adverse effect on our sales, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.. Acts of terrorism, natural disasters, acts of war, other catastrophes or political unrest could have a material adverse effect on our business.. The threat, or actual acts, of terrorism continue to be a significant risk to the global economy. Terrorism and potential military responses, political unrest, natural disasters, pandemics and other health issues have disrupted or could in the future disrupt commerce, impact our ability to operate our stores, offices or distribution centers in the affected areas or impact our ability to provide critical functions or services necessary to the operation of our business. A disruption of commerce, or an inability to recover critical functions or services from such a disruption, could interfere with the production, shipment or receipt of our merchandise in a timely manner or increase our costs to do so, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, operational results, financial position and cash flow. In addition, any of the above disruptions could undermine consumer confidence, which could negatively impact consumer spending or customer traffic, and thus have an adverse effect on our operational results.. Our ability to mitigate the adverse impact of any of the above disruptions also depends, in part, upon the effectiveness of our planning and response. However, we cannot be certain that our plans will be adequate or implemented properly in the event of an actual disaster or other catastrophic situation.. We are heavily dependent on our information technology systems and our ability to maintain and upgrade these systems from time-to-time and operate them in a secure manner. Any failure, interruption or compromise of these systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and cash flow.. The efficient operation of our business is heavily dependent on our information technology systems (\"IT systems\"). In particular, we rely (i) on point-of-sale terminals, which provide information to our host analysis systems used to track sales and inventory; (ii) on our eCommerce website through which we sell merchandise to our customers and (iii) on a third party to process payroll for our employees. Although our data is backed up and securely stored off-site, our main data center is located at our headquarters in Plymouth, Minnesota. The data center and our operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption due to a variety of factors.. Any disruption in the operation of our IT systems, the loss of key employees knowledgeable about such systems or our failure to continue to effectively enhance such systems could interrupt our operations resulting in the temporary loss of or ability to access data or interfere with our ability to sell goods in-store, which could result in reduced sales and affect our operations and financial performance. In addition, any interruption in the operation of our website could cause us to lose sales due to the temporary inability of customers to purchase merchandise through our website.. From time-to-time, we improve and upgrade our IT systems and the functionality of our Internet website in an effort to ensure they meet our evolving business and security needs and are adequate to handle business growth. If we are unable to effectively maintain, operate, upgrade and secure our IT systems and our website, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. While we believe that we are diligent in selecting vendors, systems and third party providers to assist us in maintaining the integrity of our information technology systems, we realize that there are risks and no assurance can be provided that future disruptions, service outages and failures or unauthorized intrusions will not occur.. 13. Table of Contents. We are subject to cyber security risks and may incur additional expenses in order to mitigate such risks or in response to unauthorized access to our data. In addition, an incident in which we or our third party service providers fail to protect our customers' information against a security breach could result in costly government enforcement actions and monetary damages against us from private litigation. Such an incident could otherwise damage our reputation, harm our business and adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. The Company and our third-party service providers, which manage portions of the Company's data, are subject to cyber security risks. The nature of our business involves the receipt and transmission, and in some cases storage by us or third parties on our behalf, of customers' personal information, shopping preferences and our customers' credit card information, in addition to employee information and the Company's financial and strategic data. The protection of our customers' data, as well as confidential Company data is vitally important to the Company. The Company and its third-party service providers employ systems and/or websites that are intended to protect the storage and/or transmission of proprietary or confidential information by us and these third-party service providers. While the Company has implemented measures to prevent and detect security breaches and cyber incidents and to monitor its computer network, any failure of these measures and any failure of third parties that assist the Company in managing its data could adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. Although the Company expects our third-party service providers to implement and use reasonable security measures to protect the proprietary and confidential information once it is received by them, we cannot control these service providers and cannot guarantee that a security breach will not occur in the future either at their location or within their systems. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to data, disable or degrade storage service, or sabotage systems evolve and change frequently and may be difficult to detect, we and the service providers we use may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventive measures. Unauthorized parties may also attempt to gain access to our systems or facilities, or those of third parties acting on our behalf, through fraud, trickery or other forms of deceiving our employees or those of our third-party providers. Despite our preventative efforts and those of our third-party service providers, we may be vulnerable to targeted or random security breaches, privacy or denial of service attacks, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors, or other similar events which could expose us and our third-party service providers to a risk of loss or misuse of proprietary and confidential information, litigation and potential liability. Cyber security attacks may be targeted at us, our third-party service providers, or our customers. Actual or anticipated attacks may cause us to incur significant additional expense, including costs to deploy additional personnel and protection technologies, train employees, and engage third-party experts and consultants. Any cyber security or security breaches, including any breaches that result in theft, transfer or unauthorized disclosure of customer, employee or company information, or our lack of compliance with information security and privacy laws and regulations, may result in significant legal and financial exposure, including claims for unauthorized purchases with stolen credit card information, impersonation or other similar fraud claims, and considerable other additional expenses. Some or all of these costs may not be adequately covered by our insurance, and could result in a loss of confidence in our security measures, any or all of which could have an adverse effect on our brand, business and reputation.. Consumer awareness and sensitivity to privacy breaches and cyber security threats is prevalent. Any misappropriation of confidential or personally identifiable information gathered, stored or used by us or our service providers, be it intentional or accidental, could have a material impact on the operation of our business, including severely damaging our reputation and our relationships with our customers, employees and investors. Should customers lose confidence in our ability to protect their information, they may discontinue shopping in our stores or on our website.. Laws on privacy continue to evolve and further limits on how we collect or use customer information could adversely affect our business.. We collect and store customer information primarily for marketing purposes and to improve the services we provide. The use or retention of certain customer information is subject to applicable privacy laws. These laws and the judicial interpretation of such laws are evolving on a frequent basis. If we fail to comply with these laws, we may be subject to fines or penalties, which could impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any limitations imposed on the use of such customer information by federal, state or local governments, could have an adverse effect on our future marketing activities. Governmental focus on data security and/or privacy may lead to additional legislation or regulations. As a result, we may have to modify our business with the goal of further improving data security, which would result in increased expenses and operating complexity.  To the extent our or our business partners' security procedures and protection of customer information prove to be insufficient or inadequate, we may become subject to litigation or other claims, which could expose us to liability and cause damage to our reputation, brand and results of operations.. 14. Table of Contents. A failure to comply with the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are highly dependent on the use of credit and debit cards to complete sale transactions in our stores and through our website, and because of such use are subject to the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards (\"PCI Standards\"). If we or our business partners fail to comply with the PCI Standards or to adequately protect sensitive customer information, we may become subject to fines or limitations on our ability to accept credit or debit cards, which could adversely affect our sales, operating income, brand and reputation. Also, any changes we may be required to make to our private label credit card program in the future could adversely affect the promotional financing arrangements available to our credit card customers and therefore our operating results.. The sufficiency and availability of our sources of liquidity may be affected by a variety of factors.. The sufficiency and availability of our sources of liquidity may be affected by a variety of factors, including, without limitation: (i) the level of our operating cash flow, which are impacted by our overall sales and gross margins, general economic conditions and the level of consumer discretionary spending; (ii) our capital expenditures; and (iii) our ability to maintain borrowing availability and to comply with applicable covenants contained in our Credit Facility.. Our ability to return to profitability and to generate positive cash flow is dependent upon many factors, including favorable economic conditions and consumer confidence and our ability to successfully execute our financial plan and strategic and tactical initiatives in order to improve overall sales levels and gross margins. There can be no assurance that our cash flow from operations will be sufficient at all times to support our Company without additional financing or credit availability. An inability to generate sufficient cash flow could have important consequences. For example, it could:. • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;. • limit our ability to borrow money or to invest in our business operations;. • make it more difficult for us to open new stores or improve existing stores; and. • require us to incur significant additional indebtedness.. Should we be unable in the future to borrow under the Credit Facility, it is possible, depending on the cause of our inability to borrow, that we may not have sufficient cash resources for our operations. If that were to occur, our liquidity would be significantly impaired, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Access to additional financing from the capital markets may be limited.. While we have availability under our Credit Facility to bolster our liquidity, we may need additional capital to fund our operations, particularly if our cash flow from operating activities were to decrease or if the Credit Facility were unavailable. The sale of additional equity securities or convertible debt securities in order to improve our liquidity could result in additional dilution to our stockholders. If we borrow under our Credit Facility or incur other debt, our expenses will increase and we could be subject to additional restrictions that may limit our operating flexibility. Newly issued securities may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior or otherwise superior to those of our common stock. There is no assurance that equity or debt financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us. Without sufficient liquidity, we will be more vulnerable to any future downturns in our business or the general economy. Future increases in interest rates or other tightening of the credit markets, or future turmoil in the financial markets, could make it more difficult for us to access funds, to refinance our indebtedness (if necessary), to enter into agreements for new indebtedness, or to obtain funding through the issuance of our securities. Also, if we are unable to obtain credit on commercially reasonable terms in the future when the current Credit Facility expires in September 2019 that could adversely impact our liquidity and results of operations.. Our ability to maintain the value of our trademarks impacts our business and financial performance.. We believe that our \"christopher & banks\", \"cj banks\" and related trademarks are important to our success. Even though we take actions to protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights, we cannot be sure that we will be successful or that others will not imitate or infringe upon our intellectual property rights. In addition, we cannot assure that others will not seek to block the sale of our products as infringements of their trademark and proprietary rights. If we cannot adequately protect our existing and future trademarks or prevent infringement of them, our business and financial performance could suffer.. 15. Table of Contents. We may be subject to adverse outcomes in current or future litigation matters or regulatory proceedings which could result in the unexpected expenditure of time and resources.. From time-to-time, we may be involved in litigation, regulatory actions and other claims against our business. There are also other types of claims that could be asserted against us based on litigation that has been asserted against others, particularly in the retail industry such as intellectual property infringement (as discussed below) customer and employment claims, including class action claims or lawsuits alleging violations of federal or state laws. These matters could raise complex factual and legal issues requiring significant management time and, if determined to be adverse to the Company, could subject the Company to material liabilities.. In recent years, there has been increasing activity by companies which have acquired intellectual property rights, but do not practice those rights (sometimes referred to as \"patent trolls\"), to engage in very broad licensing programs aimed at a large number of companies in a wide variety of businesses, or at retail companies specifically. These efforts typically involve proposing licenses in exchange for a payment of money and may also include the threat or actual initiation of litigation. Any such litigation can be costly to defend, even if unsubstantiated or invalid. It is not possible to predict the impact, if any, of such claims on our business and operations.. An unfavorable outcome in any such litigation, claims or regulatory proceedings could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations and/or our reputation. In addition, regardless of the outcome of any legal or regulatory proceedings, such proceedings can be expensive and require that we devote substantial resources and executive time to them, thereby diverting management's attention and resources that are needed to successfully run our business.. Changes in accounting rules and regulations could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow.. Generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations with regards to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our business are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments.  Changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments could significantly change or increase volatility of our reported or expected financial performance or financial condition.  See Note 1, \"Nature of Business and Significant Accounting Policies,\" in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements included herein for a description of recently issued accounting pronouncements, and \"Critical Accounting Policies,\" included herein which discusses accounting policies considered to be important to our operational results and financial condition.  These and other future changes to accounting rules or regulations could have an adverse impact on our business, operational results, financial position and cash flow.. Failure to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could negatively impact our business, the price of our common stock and market confidence in our reported financial information.. As required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we maintain a documented system of internal controls which is reviewed and monitored by management and periodically discussed with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. We devote significant resources to document, test, monitor and improve our internal controls and will continue to do so; however, we cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that our controls are adequate in the future or that adequate controls will be effective in preventing fraud. Any failures in the effectiveness of our internal controls or to comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could negatively impact our business, the price of our common stock and market confidence in our reported financial information.. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover. We are entitled to certain other protective provisions under Delaware law.. We are a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law impose various impediments to the ability of a third-party to acquire control of the Company, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition involving us that our stockholders may consider favorable by, among other things:. • prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors;. • authorizing the Board to designate and issue \"blank check\" preferred stock;. • limiting persons who can call special meetings or the Board of Directors or stockholders;. • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; and. • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at a stockholders' meeting.. 16. Table of Contents. Increases in labor costs related to changes in employment laws and regulations could impact our business, operational results, financial position and cash flow.. Our retail store operations are subject to federal, state and local laws governing such matters as minimum wages, working conditions, work scheduling, healthcare reform, paid time off, overtime pay and workers' compensation.. A number of factors could adversely affect our operating costs, including additional government-imposed increases in minimum wages, overtime and sick pay, paid leaves of absence, mandated health benefits, and changing regulations from the National Labor Relations Board or other agencies. In fact, recent changes in minimum wage laws have resulted in higher starting wage levels at a number of our stores. Complying with new legislation or regulations could be time consuming and expensive and if we are unable to offset increased labor costs by increased sales or improved gross margins, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, operational results, financial position and cash flow.. Our stock price may be volatile.. The market price of our stock has fluctuated substantially and may continue to fluctuate significantly. Our financial condition, any quarterly variations in actual or anticipated operating results or comparable sales, any failure to meet analysts' expectations and sales of large blocks of our stock, among other factors, could cause the market price of our stock to fluctuate substantially.  In addition, the stock market has experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many retail and other stocks that have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. This volatility could affect the price at which shares of our stock could be sold.. Securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the overall market and in the market price of such company's securities.  Such litigation could result in substantial costs, divert our management's attention and resources and have a material adverse effect on our business, operational results, financial position and cash flow.. If we cannot continue to satisfy the New York Stock Exchange (\"NYSE\") listing requirements, our common stock may be delisted, which could negatively affect the price, liquidity and market for our common stock.. Although our common stock is currently listed on the NYSE, we may be unable to continue to satisfy the NYSE's ongoing listing requirements. If we are notified in the future by the NYSE that we are out of compliance, we would expect to file a continued listing plan as part of our efforts to regain compliance and would expect that the NYSE would grant us a period of time in order to do so.. If the NYSE were to delist our common stock, it could: (i) reduce the liquidity and, quite possibly, the market price of our common stock; (ii) reduce the number of institutional investors willing to hold or acquire our common stock, which could negatively affect our ability to raise equity financing; (iii) limit our access to public capital markets; (iv) impair our ability to provide equity incentives that would be attractive to our employees; (v) significantly impair our ability to use our common stock as consideration for acquisitions of other companies; (vi) result in a limited availability for market quotations for our common stock; and (vii) reduce or result in the loss of analyst coverage of the Company.. Our business could be impacted as a result of actions by activist stockholders or others.. We may be subject, from time to time, to legal and business challenges in the operation of our Company due to proxy contests, shareholder proposals, media campaigns and other actions instituted by activist shareholders or others. Responding to such actions can be costly and time-consuming, disrupt our operations, may not align with our business strategies and could divert the attention of our Board of Directors and senior management from the pursuit of our current or future business strategies. Perceived uncertainties as to our future direction as a result of stockholder activism or potential changes to the composition of the Board of Directors or senior management may lead to the perception of instability in our business and may also make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified and experienced senior management and Board members."
