[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE SAFE HARBOR PROVISIONS. OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains and our other publicly available documents may contain, and our officers, directors and other representatives may from time to time make, \"forward-looking statements\" within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements can be identified by words such as \"anticipate,\" \"intend,\" \"plan,\" \"goal,\" \"seek,\" \"believe,\" \"project,\" \"estimate,\" \"expect,\" \"strategy,\" \"future,\" \"likely,\" \"may,\" \"should,\" \"will\" and similar references to future periods. Forward-looking statements are neither historical facts nor assurances of future performance. Instead, they are based only on our current beliefs, expectations and assumptions regarding the future of our businesses, financial condition and results of operations, future plans and strategies, projections, anticipated events and trends, the economy and other future conditions. Because forward-looking statements relate to the future, they are subject to inherent uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict and many of which are outside of our control. Our actual results and financial condition may differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements. Therefore, you should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause our actual results and financial condition to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements are discussed or identified in our public filings made with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including in this \"Risk Factors\" discussion. Any forward-looking statements made by us in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are based only on information currently available to us and speak only as of the date on which the statement is made. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether written or oral, that may be made from time to time, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise, except as required by applicable law.. Reference to this Cautionary Statement in the context of a forward-looking statement shall be deemed to be a statement that any one or more of the following factors may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statement.. The following risk factors are in addition to any other cautionary statements, written or oral, which may be made or referred to in connection with any particular forward-looking statement. The following risk factors should not be construed as exhaustive.. Our revenues, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected by changes in commodity prices.. Our revenues, results of operations and cash flows are affected by market prices for commodities such as crude oil, natural gas, ethanol, fertilizer, grain, oilseed, flour and crude and refined vegetable oils. Commodity prices generally are affected by a wide range of factors beyond our control, including weather, disease, insect damage, drought, the availability and adequacy of supply, government regulation and policies and general political and economic conditions. We are also exposed to fluctuating commodity prices as the result of our inventories of commodities, typically grain, fertilizer and petroleum products, and purchase and sale contracts at fixed or partially fixed prices. At any time, our inventory levels and unfulfilled fixed or partially fixed price contract obligations may be substantial. We have processes in place to monitor exposures to these risks and engage in strategies to manage these risks. If these controls and strategies are not successful in mitigating our exposure to these fluctuations, we could be materially and adversely affected. Increases in market prices for commodities that we purchase without a corresponding increase in the price of our products or our sales volume or a decrease in our other operating expenses could reduce our revenues and net income.. For example, in our energy operations, profitability depends largely on the margin between the cost of crude oil that we refine and the selling prices that we obtain for our refined products. The prices for both crude oil and for gasoline, diesel fuel and other refined petroleum products fluctuate widely. Factors influencing these prices, many of which are beyond our control, include:. • levels of worldwide and domestic supplies;. • capacities of domestic and foreign refineries;. • the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (\"OPEC\") to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls, and the price and level of imports;. • disruption in supply;. 9. Table of Contents. • political instability or armed conflict in oil-producing regions;. • the level of demand from consumers, agricultural producers and other customers;. • the price and availability of alternative fuels;. • the availability of pipeline capacity; and. • domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes.. The long-term effects of these and other conditions on the prices of crude oil and refined petroleum products are uncertain and ever-changing. Increases in crude oil prices without a corresponding increase in the prices of our refined petroleum products, and decreases in crude oil prices with larger corresponding decreases in the prices of our refined petroleum products, would reduce our net income. Accordingly, we expect our margins on, and the profitability of our energy business to fluctuate, possibly significantly, over time.. Our revenues, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected by global and domestic economic conditions, downturns and risks.. The level of demand for our products is affected by global and regional demographics and macroeconomic conditions, including population growth rates and changes in standards of living. A significant downturn in global economic growth or recessionary conditions in major geographic regions may lead to a reduced demand for agricultural commodities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. Additionally, weak global economic conditions and adverse conditions in financial and capital markets may adversely impact the financial condition and liquidity of some of our customers, suppliers and other counterparties, which could have a material adverse effect on our customers' ability to pay for our products and on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects.. Our revenues originated outside of the United States were approximately 23% of consolidated net sales in fiscal 2017. As a result, we are exposed to risks associated with having global operations, including currency, economic or political instability in the international markets in which we do business, including Brazil, the southern cone of South America, Europe, the Middle East and the Asia Pacific region.. Also, a significant portion of our business activities are conducted in Canada, Mexico and China. At this time, it is unclear what changes, if any, will be made to existing international trade agreements that are relevant for purposes of our business activities, including the North American Free Trade Agreement. Any U.S. withdrawal from, or material modification to, a relevant international trade agreement could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects.. Our revenues, margins, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected if our members were to do business with others rather than with us.. We do not have an exclusive relationship with our members and our members are not obligated to supply us with their products or purchase products from us. Our members often have a variety of distribution outlets and product sources available to them. If our members were to sell their products to other purchasers or purchase products from other sellers, our revenues and margins would decline and our results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.. We are exposed to the risk of nonperformance and nonpayment by counterparties.. We are exposed to the risk of nonperformance and nonpayment by counterparties, whether pursuant to contracts or otherwise. Risk of nonperformance and nonpayment by counterparties includes the inability or refusal of a counterparty to pay us, the inability or refusal to perform because of a counterparty's financial condition and liquidity, or for any other reason, and also the risk that the counterparty will refuse to perform a contract during a period of price fluctuations where contract prices are significantly different than the then current market prices. In the event that we experience significant nonperformance or nonpayment by counterparties, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. For example, we store inventory in third-party warehouses, and the operators of these warehouses may not adequately store or secure our inventory, or they may improperly sell that inventory to someone else, which could expose us to a loss of the value of that inventory. In the event that we experience any such nonperformance by a third-party warehouse operator, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.. 10. Table of Contents. We participate in highly competitive business markets and we may not be able to continue to compete successfully, which could have a material adverse effect on us.. We operate in several highly competitive business segments and our competitors may succeed in developing new or enhanced products that are better than ours, may be more successful in marketing and selling their products than we are, or may have more effective supply chain capability than we have. Competitive factors include price, service level, proximity to markets, access to transportation, product quality and marketing. In our business segments, we compete with certain companies that are larger and better known than we are and that have greater marketing, financial, personnel and other resources than we do. As a result, we may not be able to continue to compete successfully with our competitors, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects.. Our business, profitability and liquidity may be adversely affected by the deterioration in the credit quality of, or defaults by, third parties who owe us money.. We extend credit to, make loans to and engage in other financing arrangements with individual producers, local cooperatives and other third parties around the world. When we do so, we incur credit risk and the risk of losses if our borrowers and others to which we extend credit do not repay their loans or perform their obligations to pay us the money they owe. These parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or for other reasons. If these counterparties do not pay us back, such that we experience significant defaults on their payment obligations to us, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.. We are also subject to the risk that our rights against borrowers and other third parties that owe us money may not be enforceable in all circumstances, for example if a borrower or third party declares bankruptcy. In addition, the credit quality of borrowers and other third parties whose obligations we hold could deteriorate, including a deterioration in the value of collateral posted by those parties to secure their obligations to us pursuant to purchase contracts, loan agreements or other contracts. If that deterioration occurs, the material adverse effects of third parties not performing their repayment obligations may be exacerbated if the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount owed to us. For example, certain loans and other financing arrangements we undertake with agricultural producers are typically secured by the counterparty's crops that are planted in the current year. There is a risk that the value of the crop will not be sufficient to satisfy the counterparty's repayment obligations under the financing arrangement as a result of weather, crop growing conditions, other factors that influence the price, supply and demand for agricultural commodities or for other reasons.. In addition, disputes may arise as to the amount of collateral we are entitled to receive and the value of pledged assets. The termination of contracts and the foreclosure on collateral may subject us to claims for the improper exercise of our rights. Default rates, downgrades and disputes with counterparties as to the valuation of collateral increase significantly in times of market stress and illiquidity.. In respect of our lending activity, we evaluate the collectability of both commercial and producer loans on a specific identification basis, based on the amount and quality of the collateral obtained, and record specific loan loss reserves when appropriate. Consistent with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (\"U.S. GAAP\"), a general reserve is also maintained based on historical loss experience and various qualitative factors. For other forms of credit, we establish reserves as appropriate and consistent with U.S. GAAP. The reserves represent our best estimate based upon current facts and circumstances. Future developments or changes in assumptions may cause us to record adjustments to the reserves which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.. Changes in federal income tax laws or in our tax status could increase our tax liability and reduce our net income significantly.. At this time, it is unclear what changes, if any, will be made to current federal income tax laws, regulations and interpretations regarding the taxation of cooperatives, which allow us to exclude income generated through business with or for a member (patronage income) from our taxable income. If any changes are made to such federal income tax laws, regulations or interpretations, or if in the future we were not eligible to be taxed as a cooperative, our tax liability would significantly increase and our net income would significantly decrease.. 11. Table of Contents. We incur significant costs in complying with applicable laws and regulations. Any failure to comply with these laws and regulations, or make the capital or other investments necessary to comply with these laws and regulations, could expose us to unanticipated expenditures and liabilities.. We are subject to numerous federal, state and local provisions regulating our business and operations. We incur and expect to incur significant capital and operating expenses to comply with these laws and regulations. We may be unable to pass on those expenses to customers without experiencing volume and margin losses. For example, the compliance burden and impact on our operations and profitability as a result of the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (\"Dodd-Frank\") and related regulations continue to evolve, as federal agencies have implemented and continue to implement its many provisions through regulation. These efforts to change the regulation of financial markets subject users of derivatives, such as CHS, to extensive oversight and regulation by the CFTC. Such initiatives have imposed, and may continue to impose, additional costs on us, including operating and compliance costs, and could materially affect the availability, as well as the cost and terms, of certain transactions. Certain federal regulations, studies and reports addressing Dodd-Frank, including the regulation of swaps and derivatives, are still being implemented and others are being finalized. We will continue to monitor these developments. Any of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects.. We establish reserves for the future cost of known compliance obligations, such as remediation of identified environmental issues. However, these reserves may prove inadequate to meet our actual liability. Moreover, amended, new or more stringent requirements, stricter interpretations of existing requirements or the future discovery of currently unknown compliance issues may require us to make material expenditures or subject us to liabilities that we currently do not anticipate. Furthermore, our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to administrative penalties and injunctive relief, civil remedies, including fines and injunctions, and recalls of our products. For example, we regularly maintain hedges to manage the price risks associated with our commercial operations. These transactions typically take place on exchanges such as the CME. Our hedging transactions and activities are subject to the rules and regulations of the exchanges we use, including the CME, as well as the CFTC. All exchanges have broad powers to review required records, investigate and enforce compliance and to punish noncompliance by entities subject to their jurisdiction. The failure to comply with such rules and regulations could lead to restrictions on our trading activities or subject us to enforcement action by the CFTC or a disciplinary action by the exchanges, which could lead to substantial sanctions. In addition, any investigation or proceeding by an exchange or the CFTC, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs, the diversion of resources, including management time, and potential harm to our reputation, all of which, could have a material adverse effect on our business financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects.. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 and other similar anti-corruption, anti-bribery and anti-kickback laws and regulations, and any noncompliance with those laws and regulations by us or others acting on our behalf could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We operate on a global basis and are subject to anti-corruption, anti-bribery and anti-kickback laws and regulations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended (the \"FCPA\"). The FCPA and other similar anti-corruption, anti-bribery and anti-kickback laws and regulations in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries or agents from making improper payments to government officials or any other persons for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We operate and sell our products in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-corruption, anti-bribery and anti-kickback laws and regulations may conflict with local customs and practices. In addition, in certain countries, we engage third-party agents or intermediaries to act on our behalf. If these third parties violate applicable anti-corruption, anti-bribery or anti-kickback laws or regulations, we may be liable for those violations. We have policies in place prohibiting employees from making or authorizing improper payments, we train our employees regarding compliance with anti-corruption, anti-bribery and anti-kickback laws and regulations and we utilize procedures to identify and mitigate risks of such misconduct by our employees and third-party agents and intermediaries. However, we cannot provide assurances that our employees or third-party agents or intermediaries will comply with those policies, laws and regulations. If we are found liable for violations of the FCPA, or other similar anti-corruption, anti-bribery or anti-kickback laws or regulations, either due to our own acts or out of inadvertence, or due to the acts or inadvertence of others, we could suffer criminal or civil fines or penalties or other repercussions, including reputational harm, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Environmental and energy laws and regulations may result in increased operating costs and capital expenditures and may have a material and adverse effect on us.. New and current environmental and energy laws and regulations, including regulations relating to alternative energy sources and the risk of global climate change, new interpretations of existing environmental and energy laws and regulations,. 12. Table of Contents. increased governmental enforcement of environmental and energy laws and regulations or other developments in these areas could require us to make additional unforeseen expenditures or to make unforeseen changes to our operations, either of which could adversely affect us. For example, it is possible that some form of regulation will be forthcoming at the federal level in the United States with respect to emissions of greenhouse gases (\"GHGs\"), such as carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxides. New federal legislation or regulatory programs that restrict emissions of GHGs, or comparable new state legislation or programs, or customer requirements, in areas where we or our customers conduct business could adversely affect our operations and the demand for our energy products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. In addition, new legislation or regulatory programs could require substantial expenditures for the installation and operation of systems and equipment that we do not currently possess or for substantial modifications to existing equipment. The actual effects of climate change on our businesses are, however, unknown and indeterminable at this time.. Also, pursuant to the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007, the EPA has promulgated the Renewable Fuel Standard (\"RFS\"), which requires refiners to blend renewable fuels, such as ethanol and biodiesel, with their petroleum fuels or purchase renewable energy credits, known as RINs, in lieu of blending. The EPA generally establishes new annual renewable fuel percentage standards for each compliance year in the preceding year. We generate RINs in our marketing operations under the RFS, however it is not enough to meet the needs of our refining capacity and RINs must be purchased on the open market. In recent years the price of RINs has been extremely volatile. As a result, the purchase of RINs could have a negative impact on our future refined fuels margins, the impact of which we are not able to estimate at this time.. Environmental liabilities could have a material adverse effect on us.. Many of our current and former facilities have been in operation for many years and, over that time, we and other operators of those facilities have generated, used, stored and disposed of substances or wastes that are or might be considered hazardous under applicable environmental laws, including liquid fertilizers, chemicals and fuels stored in underground and above-ground tanks. Any past or future actions in violation of applicable environmental laws could subject us to administrative penalties, fines, other costs, such as capital expenditures, and injunctions. In addition, an owner or operator of contaminated property, and a party who sends hazardous materials to such site for treatment, storage, disposal or recycling, can be liable for the cost of investigation and remediation under environmental laws. In some instances, such liability exists regardless of fault. Moreover, future or unknown past releases of hazardous substances could subject us to private lawsuits claiming damages, including for bodily injury or property damage, and to adverse publicity, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Liabilities, including legal costs, related to remediation of contaminated properties are not recognized by us until the related costs are considered probable and can be reasonably estimated.. Actual or perceived quality, safety or health risks associated with our products could subject us to significant liability and damage our business and reputation.. If any of our food or animal feed products became adulterated or misbranded, we may need to recall those items and could experience product liability claims if consumers or customers' livestock were injured, or were claimed to be injured, as a result. A widespread product recall or a significant product liability judgment could cause our products to be unavailable for a period of time or could cause a loss of consumer or customer confidence in our products. Even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any assertion that our products caused illness or injury could adversely affect our business and reputation with existing and potential consumers and customers and our corporate and brand image. Moreover, claims or liabilities of this sort might not be covered by our insurance or by any rights of indemnity or contribution that we may have against others. In addition, general public perceptions regarding the quality, safety or health risks associated with particular food or animal feed products, such as concerns regarding genetically modified crops, could reduce demand and prices for some of the products associated with our businesses. To the extent that consumer preferences evolve away from products that our members or we produce for health or other reasons, such as the growing demand for organic food products, and we are unable to develop or procure products that satisfy new consumer preferences, there will be a decreased demand for our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects.. 13. Table of Contents. Our financial results are susceptible to seasonality.. Many of our business activities are highly seasonal and operating results vary throughout the year. Our revenue and income are generally lowest during the second and fourth fiscal quarters and highest during the first and third fiscal quarters. For example, in our Ag segment, our crop nutrients and country operations businesses generally experience higher volumes and income during the spring planting season and during the fall harvest season. Our grain marketing operations are also subject to fluctuations in volume and income based on producer harvests, world grain prices and demand. Our Energy segment generally experiences higher volumes and income in certain operating areas, such as refined products, in the summer and early fall when gasoline and diesel fuel usage by our customers and members is highest and is subject to global supply and demand forces. Other energy products, such as propane, may experience higher volumes and income during the winter heating and crop drying seasons.. Our operations are subject to business interruptions and casualty losses; we do not insure against all potential losses and could be seriously harmed by unanticipated liabilities.. Our operations are subject to business interruptions due to unanticipated events such as explosions, fires, pipeline interruptions, transportation delays, equipment failures, crude oil or refined product spills, inclement weather and labor disputes. For example:. • our oil refineries and other facilities are potential targets for terrorist attacks that could halt or discontinue production;. • our inability to negotiate acceptable contracts with unionized workers in our operations could result in strikes or work stoppages;. • our corporate headquarters, the facilities we own or the significant inventories that we carry could be damaged or destroyed by catastrophic events, extreme weather conditions or contamination;. • someone may accidentally or intentionally introduce a computer virus to our information technology systems or breach our computer systems or other cyber resources; and. • an occurrence of a pandemic flu or other disease affecting a substantial part of our workforce or our customers could cause an interruption in our business operations.. The effects of any of these events could be significant. We maintain insurance coverage against many, but not all potential losses or liabilities arising from these operating hazards, but uninsured losses or losses above our coverage limits are possible. Uninsured losses and liabilities arising from operating hazards could have a material adverse effect on us.. Our risk management strategies may not be effective.. Our business is affected by fluctuations in commodity prices, transportation costs, energy prices, foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. We monitor position limits and account receivables exposures, and engage in other strategies and controls to manage these risks. Our monitoring efforts may not be successful at detecting a significant risk exposure and our controls and strategies may not be effective in adequately managing against the occurrence of a loss relating to a risk exposure. If our controls and strategies are not successful in mitigating our financial exposure to losses due to the fluctuations mentioned above, it could significantly and adversely affect our operating results.. Our business is capital-intensive in nature and we rely on cash generated from our operations and external financing to fund our strategies and ongoing capital needs.. We require significant capital, including access to credit markets from time to time, to operate our business and fund our strategies. Our working capital requirements are directly affected by the price of commodities, which may fluctuate significantly and change quickly. We also require substantial capital to maintain and upgrade our extensive network of facilities to keep pace with competitive developments, technological advances, regulations and changing safety standards. In addition, the expansion of our business and pursuit of acquisitions or other business opportunities has required, and may require, significant amounts of capital. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or maintain access to adequate external financing, including as a result of significant disruptions in the global credit markets, it could restrict our current operations and our growth opportunities, which could adversely affect our operating results, and restrict our ability to repay our existing indebtedness.. 14. Table of Contents. Our cooperative structure limits our ability to access equity capital.. As a cooperative, we may not sell common stock in our company. In addition, existing laws and our articles of incorporation and bylaws limit dividends on any preferred stock we may issue to 8% per annum. These limitations may restrict our ability to raise equity capital and may adversely affect our ability to compete with enterprises that do not face similar restrictions.. Consolidation among the producers of products we purchase and customers for products we sell could materially and adversely affect our revenues, results of operations and cash flows.. Consolidation has occurred among the individual producers of products we sell and purchase, including crude oil, fertilizer and grain, and it is likely to continue in the future. Consolidation could allow producers to negotiate pricing, supply availability and other contract terms that are less favorable to us. Consolidation also may increase the competition among consumers of these products to enter into supply relationships with a smaller number of producers, resulting in potentially higher prices for the products we purchase.. Consolidation has occurred among cooperative associations that are wholesale customers of our products, which has resulted in a smaller wholesale and retail customer base for our products and has intensified the competition for these customers, and this consolidation is likely to continue in the future. For example, ongoing consolidation among distributors and brokers of food products and food retailers has altered the buying patterns of these businesses, as they have increasingly elected to work with product suppliers who can meet their needs nationwide rather than just regionally or locally. If these cooperatives, distributors, brokers and retailers elect not to purchase our products, our revenues, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.. In addition, in the fertilizer market, consolidation at both the producer and wholesale customer level increases the potential for direct sales from the fertilizer manufacturer to the cooperative customers and/or the individual agricultural producer, which would remove us from the supply chain and could have a material and adverse effect on our revenues, results of operations and cash flows.. If our customers choose alternatives to our refined petroleum products, our revenues, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.. Numerous alternative energy sources currently under development could serve as alternatives to our gasoline, diesel fuel and other refined petroleum products. If any of these alternative products become more economically viable or preferable to our products for environmental or other reasons, demand for our energy products would decline. Declining demand for our energy products, particularly diesel fuel sold for farming applications, could materially and adversely affect our revenues, results of operations and cash flows.. The results of our agronomy business are highly dependent upon certain factors outside of our control.. Planted acreage, and consequently the volume of fertilizer and crop protection products applied, is partially dependent upon government programs, grain prices and the perception held by the producer of demand for production, all of which are outside of our control. In addition, weather conditions during the spring planting season and early summer spraying season also affect agronomy product volumes and profitability. Emerging sustainability and other environmental concerns that are outside of our control could also affect the future demand for agronomy products applied to crops and the volume of any such application. Accordingly, factors outside of our control could materially and adversely affect the revenues, results of operations and cash flows of our agronomy business.. Technological improvements could decrease the demand for our agronomy and energy products.. Technological advances in agriculture could decrease the demand for crop nutrients, energy and other crop input products and services that we provide. Genetically engineered seeds that resist disease and insects, or that meet certain nutritional requirements, could affect the demand for our crop nutrients and crop protection products. Demand for fuel that we sell could decline as technology allows for more efficient usage of equipment. Declining demand for our products could materially and adversely affect our revenues, results of operations and cash flows.. 15. Table of Contents. Acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures, divestitures and other non-ordinary course of business events resulting from portfolio management actions and other evolving business strategies could affect future results.. We monitor our business portfolio and organizational structure and have made and may continue to make acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures, divestitures and changes to our organizational structure. With respect to acquisitions, future results will be affected by our ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates, to adequately finance any acquisitions and to integrate acquired businesses quickly and obtain the anticipated financial returns, including synergies. Our ability to successfully complete a divestiture will depend on, among other things, our ability to identify buyers that are prepared to acquire such assets or businesses on acceptable terms and to adjust and optimize our retained businesses following the divestiture. Additionally, we may fail to consummate proposed acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures or strategic alliances after incurring expenses and devoting substantial resources, including management time, to such transactions.. Several parts of our business, including in particular our nitrogen production business, our foods business and portions of our grain marketing and wheat milling operations, are operated through joint ventures with third parties where we do not have majority control of the venture. By operating a business through a joint venture, we have less control over business decisions than we have in our wholly-owned or majority-owned businesses. In particular, we generally cannot act on major business initiatives in our joint ventures without the consent of the other party or parties in those ventures. Investments in joint ventures may, under certain circumstances, involve risks not present when a third party is not involved, including the possibility that co-venturers might become bankrupt or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions, in which case the joint venture may be unable to access needed growth capital (if the co-venturer is solely responsible for capital contributions) or we and any other remaining co-venturers would generally be liable for the joint venture's liabilities. Co-venturers may have economic, tax or other business interests or goals which are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, and may be in a position to take actions contrary to our policies or objectives. Our co-venturers may take actions that are not within our control. Joint venture investments may also lead to impasses. Disputes between us and co-venturers may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our officers and/or directors from focusing their time and effort on our day-to-day business. In addition, we may in certain circumstances be liable for the actions of our co-venturers. Each of these matters could have a material adverse effect on us.. We made certain assumptions and projections regarding the future of the markets served by our joint venture investments which included projected market pricing and demand for their products. These assumptions were an integral part of the economics used to evaluate these joint venture investment opportunities prior to consummation. To the extent that actual market performance varies from our models, our ability to achieve the projected returns on our joint venture investments may be impacted in a material adverse manner.. We utilize information technology systems to support our business. An ongoing multi-year implementation of an enterprise-wide resource planning system, security breaches or other disruptions to our information technology systems or assets could interfere with our operations, compromise security of our customers' or suppliers' information and expose us to liability which could adversely impact our business and reputation.. Our operations rely on certain key information technology (\"IT\") systems, some of which are dependent upon third-party services, to provide critical connections of data, information and services for internal and external users. Over the next several years, we expect to continue implementing a new enterprise resource planning system (\"ERP\"), which has and will continue to require significant capital and human resources to deploy. There can be no assurance that the actual costs for the ERP will not exceed our current estimates or that the ERP will not take longer to implement than we currently expect. In addition, potential flaws in implementing the ERP may pose risks to our ability to operate successfully and efficiently. There may be other challenges and risks to our IT systems over time due to any number of causes, such as catastrophic events, power outages, security breaches or cyber-based attacks, and as we upgrade and standardize our ERP system on a worldwide basis. These challenges and risks could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or penalties, disruption in operations, loss of valuable data and damage to our reputation, all of which could adversely affect our business."
