[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. The following risks and uncertainties, as well as other factors described elsewhere in this Annual Report or in our other filings with the Commission, could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition:. •  Unfavorable economic conditions could adversely affect demand for our products.. Unfavorable and uncertain economic conditions have adversely affected, and in the future may adversely affect, demand for some of the categories of products we sell, resulting in reduced sales volume or market share or a shift in its product mix from higher margin to lower margin products.  Factors that can affect demand include competitors' products, advertising and pricing actions, rates of unemployment, consumer confidence, health care costs, including increased costs as a result of changes in federal regulations, significant shifts in government policies, commodity costs, fuel and other energy costs and other economic factors affecting consumer spending behavior, including delays in the timing of tax refunds from the federal government, gasoline and home heating oil pricing, reduced unemployment benefits in periods of high unemployment and changes in tax policies.  While the vast majority of our products are consumer staples that generally are less vulnerable to decreases in discretionary spending than other products, they may become subject to increasing price competition.  Additionally, some of our products, such as laundry additives, gummy dietary supplements and battery-operated toothbrushes, are more likely to be affected by consumer decisions to control spending.. Some of our customers, including mass merchandisers, supermarkets, drugstores, convenience stores, wholesale clubs, home stores, and dollar, pet and other specialty stores, have experienced and may experience in the future declining financial performance, which could affect their ability to pay amounts due to us on a timely basis or at all.  We regularly review the financial strength of our key customers and, where appropriate, modify customer credit limits, which may have an adverse impact on future sales.  Because the same economic conditions that affect us also affect many of our suppliers, we regularly conduct a similar review of our suppliers to assess both their financial viability and the importance of their products to our operations.  When appropriate, we identify alternate sources of materials and services.  To date, we have not experienced a material adverse impact from economic conditions affecting our customers or suppliers.  However, a protracted economic downturn that adversely affects our suppliers and customers could adversely affect our sales and results of operations.. 11. •  We face intense competition in our markets, and the failure to compete effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We face intense competition from consumer products companies, both in the U.S. and in international markets.  Most of our products compete with other widely-advertised brands within each product category and from retailers, including club stores, grocery stores, dollar stores, mass merchandisers, e-commerce retailers and subscription services, which are increasingly offering private label brands and generic non-branded products of our customers in certain categories, which typically are sold at lower prices.. Our products generally compete on the basis of performance, brand recognition, price, value or other benefits to consumers.  Consumer products are subject to significant price competition.  As a result, we may need to reduce the prices for some of our products, or increase prices by an amount that does not cover manufacturing cost increases, to respond to competitive and customer pressures and to maintain market share.  Any reduction in prices, or inability to raise prices sufficiently to cover manufacturing cost increases, would harm profit margins.  In addition, if our sales volumes fail to grow sufficiently to offset any reduction in margins, our sales growth and other results of operations would suffer.. Advertising, promotion, merchandising and packaging also have a significant impact on retail customer decisions regarding the brands and product lines they sell and on consumer purchasing decisions.  A newly introduced consumer product (whether improved or newly developed) usually encounters intense competition requiring substantial expenditures for advertising, sales promotion and trade merchandising.  If a product gains consumer acceptance, it normally requires continued advertising, promotional support and product improvements to maintain its relative market position.  If our advertising, marketing and promotional programs are not effective, our sales growth may decline.. Many of our competitors are large companies, including P&G, The Clorox Company, Colgate-Palmolive Company, Henkel, Reckitt Benckiser Group plc, Johnson & Johnson, Nestle Purina PetCare Company, Ansell Limited, Alere Inc., Pfizer Inc., Bayer AG, S.C. Johnson & Son, Inc., Pharmavite LLC and NBTY, Inc. Many of these companies have greater financial resources than we do, and, therefore, have the capacity to outspend us on advertising and promotional activities and introduce competing products more quickly and respond more effectively to changing business and economic conditions than we can.  In addition, our competitors may attempt to gain market share by offering products at prices at or below those typically offered by us.  Competitive activity may require us to increase our spending on advertising and promotions and/or reduce prices, which could lead to reduced profits and adversely affect growth.  If we lose market share or the markets in which we compete do not grow substantially, our sales growth will decline.. There continues to be significant product and price competition in the premium and deep value laundry detergent categories and more recently, product competition in the gummy vitamin category.  For example, in the laundry detergent category, P&G and Henkel, the two largest laundry detergent companies in the U.S., are engaged in aggressive pricing promotions, and retailers are continuing to de-emphasize the deep value tier of laundry detergents, which is where XTRA competes.  In addition, the gummy vitamin category has grown from eight competitors to 30 in the last five years.  We continue to evaluate and vigorously combat these pressures through, among other things, new product introductions and increased marketing and trade spending.  However, there is no assurance the categories will not decline in the future and that we will be able to offset any such decline.. •  Loss of any of our principal customers could significantly decrease our sales and profitability.. A limited number of customers account for a large percentage of our net sales.  Wal-Mart is our largest customer, accounting for approximately 24% of net sales in 2017, 24% of net sales in 2016 and 24% of net sales in 2015.  Our top three customers accounted for approximately 36% of net sales in 2017, 35% of net sales in 2016 and 35% of net sales in 2015.  We expect that a significant portion of our net sales will continue to be derived from a small number of customers and that these percentages may increase if the growth of mass merchandisers continues.  As a result, changes in the strategies of Wal-Mart or any of our other largest customers, including a reduction in the number of brands they carry or of shelf space they dedicate to private label products, could materially harm our net sales and profitability. In addition, certain of our product lines are concentrated with certain customers.  Moreover, the use of evolving technology by our customers to develop more complex pricing models may lead to category pricing pressures.  If we were to lose a significant customer due to customer service levels or real or perceived product quality or appearance issues, this could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Moreover, our business is based primarily upon individual sales orders as we rarely enter into long-term contracts with our customers and most customer agreements include customer termination rights after short notice.  Accordingly, these customers could reduce their purchasing levels or cease buying products from us at any time and for any reason.  If we lose a significant customer or if sales of our products to a significant customer materially decrease, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 12. •  Changes in the policies of our retailer customers and increasing dependence on key retailer customers in developed markets may adversely affect our business.. In recent years, retailer consolidation both in the U.S. and internationally has increased.  This trend has resulted in the increased size and influence of large consolidated retailer customers, who may demand lower pricing, special packaging or impose other requirements on us.  These business demands may relate to inventory practices, logistics or other aspects of the customer-supplier relationship.  Some of our customers, particularly our high-volume retail store customers, have sought to obtain pricing and other concessions and better trade terms.  To the extent we provide concessions or better trade terms to those customers, our margins are reduced.  Further, if we are unable to effectively respond to the demands of our customers, these customers could reduce their purchases of our products and increase their purchases of products from competitors, which would harm our sales and profitability.  In addition, reductions in inventory by our customers, including as a result of consolidations in the retail industry, or these customers managing their working capital requirements, could result in reduced orders for our products and adversely affect our results of operations for the financial periods affected by the reductions.. Protracted unfavorable market conditions have caused many of our customers to more critically analyze the number of brands they sell, and reduce or discontinue certain of our product lines, particularly those products that were not number one or two in their category.  If this continues to occur and we are unable to improve distribution for those products at other customers, our results could be adversely affected.. In addition, private label products sold by retail trade chains are typically sold at lower prices than branded products.  As consumers look for opportunities to decrease discretionary spending, our customers have discontinued or reduced distribution of some of our products to encourage those consumers to purchase the customers' less expensive and, in some cases, more profitable private label products (primarily in the dietary supplements, diagnostic kits and oral analgesics categories).  To the extent customers discontinue or reduce distribution of our products or these products are adversely affected by customers' actions to increase shelf space for their private label products, we would seek to improve distribution with other customers.  However, if our efforts are not effective, our sales growth and other results, as well as our market share, could be adversely affected.. •  A continued shift in the retail market from food and drug stores to club stores, dollar stores and mass merchandisers, internet-based retailers and subscription services could cause our sales to decline.. Our performance depends upon the general health of the economy and of the retail environment in particular, and could be significantly harmed by changes affecting retailing and the financial difficulties of our retailer customers.  Consumer products, such as those marketed by us, are increasingly being sold by club stores, dollar stores, mass merchandisers and internet-based retailers.  Sales of our products remain strongest in the traditional mass merchandiser, food and drug retail stores, and our products are also being sold in club stores and dollar stores channels. Additionally, certain consumer products are now offered through internet-based subscription services or buying clubs.  Although we have taken steps to improve, and have seen improvement in, sales to club stores, dollar stores and internet-based retailers, and are engaged in e-commerce with respect to our TOPPIK, VIVISCAL, and WATERPIK brands, if the current trend continues and we are not successful in further improving sales to these channels, our financial condition and operating results could suffer.  In addition, the growth of the alternative retail channels that are focused on limiting the number of items they sell and selling predominantly private label products may reduce our ability to market and sell our products through such retailers. The retail environment is changing with the growth of alternative retail channels and this could significantly change the way traditional retailers do business. If these alternative retail channels were to take significant market share away from traditional retailers and/or we are not successful in these alternative retail channels, our margins and results of operations may be negatively impacted.. •  Market category declines and changes to our product and geographic mix may impact the achievement of our sales growth targets, planned pricing and financial results.. A significant percentage of our revenues come from mature markets that are subject to high levels of competition.  During 2017, approximately 83% of our sales were generated in U.S. markets.  U.S. markets for consumer products are considered mature and commonly characterized by high household penetration, particularly with respect to our most significant product categories, such as laundry detergents, deodorizers, household cleaning products, toothpastes, dietary supplements, antiperspirants and deodorants.  Our ability to achieve unit sales growth in domestic markets will depend on increased use of our products by consumers relative to competitors' products, our ability to drive growth through product innovation in existing and new product categories, investment in our established brands and enhanced merchandising and our ability to capture market share from our competitors. Our ability to quickly innovate in order to adapt our products to meet changing consumer demands is essential, especially in light of e-commerce significantly reducing the barriers for even small competitors to quickly introduce new brands and products directly to consumers. This risk is further heightened by the continued evolution of consumer needs, habits and preferences as a result of shifts in U.S. demographics, reflecting various factors including cultural and socioeconomic changes.   If we are unable to increase market share in existing product lines, develop product improvements, undertake sales, marketing and advertising initiatives that expand our product categories and develop, acquire or successfully launch new products, we may not achieve our sales growth objectives.  Even if we are. 13. successful in increasing sales within our product categories, a continuing or accelerating decline in the overall markets for our products could have a negative impact on our financial results.. •  If new products and product line extensions do not gain widespread customer acceptance or are otherwise discontinued, or if they cause sales of existing products to decline, our financial performance could decline.. Our future performance and growth depends on our ability to successfully identify, develop and introduce new products and product line extensions.  We cannot be certain that we will achieve our innovation goals.  The successful development and introduction of new products involves substantial research, development, marketing and promotional expenditures, which we may be unable to recover if the new products do not gain widespread market acceptance.  New product development and marketing efforts, including efforts to enter markets or product categories in which we have limited or no prior experience, have inherent risks.  These risks include product development or launch delays, competitor actions, regulatory approval hurdles and the failure of new products and line extensions to achieve anticipated levels of market acceptance.  In addition, if sales generated by new products result in a concomitant decline in sales of existing products, our financial performance could be harmed.. Each year, we introduce new products, including launches into new \"white space\" categories, across the majority of our marketed brands.  Historically, new product acceptance has generally been widespread across the retailer base.  There is no assurance, however, that our customers and consumers will continue to purchase these new products.  If new products are not successful in generating sales growth, our financial results could suffer.  From time to time, we have discontinued certain products and product lines, which resulted in returns from customers, asset write-offs and shutdown costs.  We may suffer similar adverse consequences in the future to the extent we discontinue products that do not meet retailer or consumer expectations or no longer satisfy consumer demand.. •  Cost overruns and delays, regulatory requirements, and miscalculations in capacity needs with respect to our expansion projects and manufacturing facilities could adversely affect our business.. From time to time, we initiate expansion projects with respect to our facilities.   As is customary with large construction projects, these projects are subject to risks of, and we have from time to time experienced, delay or cost overruns resulting from numerous factors, including the following: shortages of equipment, materials or skilled labor; work stoppages; unscheduled delays in the delivery of ordered materials and equipment; unanticipated cost increases; difficulties in obtaining necessary permits or in meeting permit conditions; difficulties in meeting regulatory or quality requirements or obtaining regulatory approvals; availability of suppliers to certify equipment for existing and enhanced regulations; design and engineering problems; and failure or delay of third party service providers, civil unrest and labor disputes. Significant cost overruns or delays in completing a project, or the miscalculations of our anticipated capacity needs could have a material adverse effect on our return on investment, results of operations and cash flows.  If we were to experience delays or cost overruns in the future it could result in product allocation and retailer frustration, the loss of a significant customer or customers, or if sales of any of our products were to materially decrease due to customer service levels or real or perceived product quality or appearance issues, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Additionally, the supply of our products depends on the uninterrupted efficient operation of our manufacturing facilities and ability to meet customer service levels.  Many of our manufacturing processes are complex and present difficult technical challenges to obtain the manufacturing yields necessary to operate profitably.  In addition, our manufacturing processes may require complex and specialized equipment which can be expensive to repair or replace with required lead times of up to a year.. The manufacturing of certain of our products is concentrated in one or more of our plants or contract manufacturers, with limited alternate facilities.  Any event that negatively impacts manufacturing facilities, manufacturing systems or equipment, or contract manufacturers or suppliers could delay or suspend shipments of products or the release of new products or could result in the delivery of inferior products.  Our revenues from the affected products would decline and we could incur losses until such time as we or our contract manufacturers are able to restore production processes or are able to put in place alternative contract manufacturers or suppliers.. •  Our reliance on a limited number of suppliers, including sole source suppliers for certain products, could materially and adversely affect our operations and financial results.. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for certain of our commodities and raw materials, including sole source suppliers for certain of our raw materials, packaging, product components, finished products and other necessary supplies.  New suppliers have to be qualified pursuant to our standards, and may also have to be qualified under governmental and industry standards and any other standards of our customers, which can require additional investment and time.  We may be unable to qualify any needed new suppliers or maintain supplier arrangements and relationships based on a variety of factors; we may be unable to contract with suppliers at the quantity, quality and price levels needed for our business; certain of our suppliers may not meet the standards of our customers or licensors; or certain of our key suppliers may become insolvent or experience other financial distress.  If any of these events occurs. 14. and we have failed to identify and qualify an alternative vendor, then we may be unable to meet our contractual obligations and customer expectations, which could damage our reputation and result in lost customers and sales, or we may incur higher than expected expenses, either of which could materially and adversely affect our business, operations and results of operations.. •  Volatility and increases in the price of raw and packaging materials or energy costs could erode our profit margins, which could harm operating results, and efforts to hedge against raw material price increases may adversely affect our operating results if raw material prices decline.. The principal raw materials and packaging used by us include surfactants (cleaning agents), paper products and resin-based molded components.  Volatility and increases in the price of raw materials, or increases in the costs of energy, shipping and other necessary services, could significantly affect our profit margins if we are unable to pass along any higher costs in the form of price increases or otherwise achieve cost efficiencies, such as in manufacturing and distribution.  Historically, we have attempted to address such price increases through cost reduction programs and price increases of our products, entering into pre-buying or locked-in pricing arrangements with certain suppliers and entering into hedge agreements.  There is no assurance, however, that we will be able to fully offset any price increases, especially given the competitive environment.  In addition, volatility in certain commodity markets could significantly affect our production cost and, therefore, harm our financial condition and operating results.. From time to time, we use hedge agreements to mitigate the volatility of commodities and diesel fuel prices.  The hedge agreements are designed to add stability to product costs, enabling us to make pricing decisions and lessen the economic impact of abrupt changes in prices over the term of the contract.  However, in periods of declining fuel prices, the hedge agreements can have the effect of locking us in at above-market prices.. •  Reduced availability of transportation or disruptions in our transportation network could adversely affect us.. We distribute our products and receive raw materials and packaging components primarily by truck, rail and ship and through various ports of entry.  Reduced availability of trucking, rail or shipping capacity due to adverse weather conditions, allocation of assets to other industries or geographies or otherwise, work stoppages, strikes or shutdowns of ports of entry or such transportation sources, could cause us to incur unanticipated expenses and impair our ability to distribute our products or receive our raw materials or packaging components in a timely manner, which could disrupt our operations, strain our customer relationships and competitive position, and adversely affect our operating profits.. •  If the reputation of one or more of our leading brands erodes, our financial results could suffer.. Our financial success is directly dependent on the reputation and success of our brands, particularly the ARM & HAMMER, OXICLEAN, TROJAN, L'IL CRITTERS and VITAFUSION and WATERPIK brands.  The effectiveness of these brands could suffer if our marketing plans or product initiatives do not have the desired impact on a brand's image or its ability to attract consumers.  Further, our results could be adversely affected if one or more of our other leading brands suffers damage to its reputation due to real or perceived, sustainability, quality or safety issues.. Additionally, claims made in our marketing campaigns may become subject to litigation alleging false advertising, which, if successful, could cause us to alter our marketing plans and may materially and adversely affect sales or result in the imposition of significant damages against us, or other customer or consumer dissatisfaction, especially if such dissatisfaction were to be broadly disseminated, including through the use of social media.. Widespread use of social media and networking sites by consumers has greatly increased the speed and accessibility of information dissemination.  Negative or inaccurate posting or comments about us in the media or on any social networking website, whether accurate or inaccurate, or the disclosure of non-public sensitive information through social media, could generate adverse publicity that could damage the reputation of our brands.  In addition, given the association of our individual products with us, an issue with one of our products could negatively affect the reputation of our other products, or us as a whole, thereby potentially adversely impacting our financial results.. •  Product liability claims and withdrawals or recalls could adversely affect our sales and operating results and the reputation of our brands.. From time to time, we are subject to product liability claims.  We may be required to pay for losses or injuries actually or purportedly caused by our products, including losses or injuries caused by raw materials or other components provided by third party suppliers that are included in our products.  Claims could be based on allegations that, among other things, our products contain contaminants, are improperly labeled or designed, or provide inadequate instructions regarding their use or inadequate warnings concerning interactions with other substances.  Whether or not successful, product liability claims could result in negative publicity. 15. that could harm our sales and operating results and the reputation of our brands.  In addition, if one of our products is found to be defective or non-compliant with applicable rules or regulations, we could be required to withdraw or recall it, which could result in adverse publicity and significant expenses.  Although we maintain product liability and product recall insurance coverage, potential product liability claims and withdrawal and recall costs may exceed the amount of insurance coverage or may be excluded under the terms of the policy, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. •  Environmental matters create potential liability risks.. We must comply with various environmental laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, including those relating to the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and the remediation of contamination associated with the use and disposal of hazardous substances.  A release of such substances due to accident or an intentional act could result in substantial liability to governmental authorities or to third parties.  We have incurred, and will continue to incur, capital and operating expenditures and other costs in complying with environmental laws and regulations.  It is possible that we could become subject to other environmental remediation costs and liabilities in the future that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.. •  From time to time, we are involved in litigation, arbitration or regulatory matters where the outcome is uncertain and which could entail significant expense.. We, in the ordinary course of our business are, and from time to time, may become, the subject of, or party to, various pending or threatened legal actions, government investigations and proceedings, including, without limitation, those relating to, commercial transactions, product liability, purported consumer class actions, employment matters, antitrust, environmental, health, safety and other compliance-related matters.  Such proceedings are subject to many uncertainties and the outcome of certain pending or threatened legal actions may not be reasonably predictable and any related damages may not be estimable.  Certain pending or future legal actions, for example, the matter described under \"Item 3 Legal Proceedings - Scantibodies Laboratory, Inc.\" below, could result in an adverse outcome for us, and any such adverse outcome could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. •  Current and future laws and regulations in the countries in which we and our suppliers operate could expose us to increased costs and other adverse consequences.. The manufacturing, processing, formulation (including stability), packaging, labeling, marketing, distribution and sale of our products are subject to regulation by federal agencies, including the FDA, the FTC, the EPA and the CPSC.  In addition, our and our suppliers' operations are subject to the oversight of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and the National Labor Relations Board.  Our activities are also regulated by various agencies of the states, localities and foreign countries in which our products are sold.. In particular, the FDA regulates the formulation, safety, manufacturing, packaging, labeling and distribution of condoms, home pregnancy and ovulation test kits, battery operated toothbrushes, over-the-counter pharmaceuticals and dietary supplements, including vitamins and minerals.  The FDA also exercises oversight over cosmetic products such as depilatories.  In addition, under a memorandum of understanding between the FDA and the FTC, the FTC has jurisdiction with regard to the promotion and advertising of these products, and the FTC regulates the promotion and advertising of our other products as well.  As part of its regulatory authority, the FDA may periodically conduct inspections of the physical facilities, machinery, processes and procedures that we and our suppliers use to manufacture regulated products and may identify compliance issues that would require us and our suppliers to make certain changes in our manufacturing facilities and processes.  The failure of a facility to be in compliance may lead to regulatory action against the products made in that facility, including seizure, injunction or recall, as well as to possible action against the owner of the facility/manufacturer.  We may be required to make additional expenditures to address these issues or possibly stop selling certain products until the compliance issue has been remediated.  As a result, our business could be adversely affected.. Likewise, any future determination by the FDA or a similar foreign agency, or by us in reviewing our compliance with applicable rules and regulations, that our products or quality systems do not comply with applicable regulations could result in future compliance activities, including product withdrawals or recalls, import detentions, injunctions preventing the shipment of products, or other enforcement actions.  For example, the FDA may determine that a particular claim that we use to support the marketing of a product is not substantiated, may not accept the evidence of safety for a new product that we may wish to market, may challenge the safety or effectiveness of existing products based on, among other things, changes in formulations, inadequate stability or \"shelf-life,\" consumer complaints, or improper labeling, and may determine that our dietary supplement business manufacturing, packaging, labeling and holding operations do not comply with cGMPs.  Similarly, we may identify these or other issues in internal compliance reviews of our operations and the operations and products of vendors and acquired companies.  These other issues may include the identification of contaminants or non-compliant levels of particular ingredients.  Any of the foregoing could subject us to adverse. 16. publicity, force us to incur unanticipated costs and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. From time to time, Congress, the FDA, the FTC, the Commission or other federal, state, local or foreign legislative and regulatory authorities may impose additional laws or regulations that apply to us, repeal laws or regulations that we consider favorable, or impose more stringent interpretations of current laws or regulations.  For example, we are subject to regulations regarding the transportation, storage or use of certain chemicals to protect the environment, as well as the Commission's rules with respect to \"conflict minerals.\"  Additionally, recent reform proposals have introduced greater uncertainty with respect to trade policies, tariffs and government regulations affecting trade between the U.S. and other countries, in addition to the major changes to U.S. tax law recently signed into law.  Major developments in trade relations could have a material effect on our balance sheet and results of operations.  We are not able to predict the nature of these changes or of such future laws, regulations, repeals or interpretations or to predict the effect additional or shifting governmental regulation, when and if it occurs, would have on our business in the future.  Such developments could require reformulation of certain products to meet new standards, recalls or discontinuance of certain products not able to be reformulated, additional record-keeping requirements, increased documentation of the properties of certain products, additional or different labeling, additional scientific substantiation, expanded adverse event reporting or other new requirements.  Any such developments could increase our costs significantly and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. •  We are subject to risks related to our international operations that could adversely affect our results of operations.. Our international operations subject us to risks customarily associated with foreign operations, including:. •  currency fluctuations;. •  import and export license and taxation requirements and restrictions;. •  trade restrictions, including local investment or exchange control regulations;. •  changes in tariffs and taxes;. •  the effect of foreign income taxes, value-added taxes and withholding taxes, including the inability to recover amounts owed to us by foreign governments, and the determination of the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the \"I.R.S.\") regarding the applicability of certain regulations, including the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, to our international transactions;. •  the possibility of expropriation, confiscatory taxation or price controls;. •  restrictions on or the costs related to repatriating foreign profits back to the U.S.;. •  political or economic instability, and civil unrest;. •  disruptions in the global transportation network, such as work stoppages, strikes or shutdowns of ports of entry or such other transportation sources, or other labor unrest;. •  compliance with laws and regulations concerning ethical business practices, including without limitation, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and United Kingdom Bribery Act;. •  difficulty in enforcing contractual and intellectual property rights;. •  regulatory requirements for certain products; and. •  difficulties in staffing and managing international operations.. In addition, changes as result of the United Kingdom's decision to exit the European Union could subject us to heightened risks in that region, including disruptions to trade and free movement of goods, services and people to and from the United Kingdom, increased foreign exchange volatility with respect to the British pound and additional legal and economic uncertainty.  Moreover, there may be additional shifts in U.S. foreign, trade, economic and other policies that may materially affect our foreign operations and our ability to market our products in certain international markets.  All of the foregoing risks could have a significant impact on our ability to commercialize our products on a competitive basis in international markets and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position.  In all foreign jurisdictions in which we operate, we are subject to laws and regulations that govern foreign investment, foreign trade and currency exchange transactions.. 17. •  Our business is exposed to domestic and foreign currency fluctuations that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Approximately 17% of our net sales in 2017 were to customers outside the U.S.  We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk (both transaction and translation) with respect to our sales, profits, assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar.  Outside of the U.S., sales and costs are denominated in a variety of currencies, including the Canadian Dollar, Euro, Pound, Brazilian Real, Mexican Peso, Chinese Yuan and Australian Dollar.  A weakening of the currencies in which sales are generated relative to the currencies in which costs are denominated would decrease operating profits and cash flow.  Changes in currency exchange rates may also affect the relative prices at which we purchase materials and services in foreign markets.  Although we, from time to time, enter into forward exchange contracts to reduce the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations related to anticipated but not yet committed intercompany sales or purchases denominated in the U.S. Dollar, Canadian Dollar, Pound and Euro, foreign currency fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. •  Our failure to expand in existing geographic locations or enter new geographic locations could have a material adverse effect on the growth of our business, sales and results of operations.. Our ability to continue to grow our sales and profits is dependent on expanding in the locations in which we already do business and entering into new geographic locations, both of which would require significant resources and investments which would affect our risk profile. The failure to successfully enter into or expand our business in such locations could materially affect the growth of our business, sales and results of operations.. •  We may not be able to continue to identify and complete strategic acquisitions and effectively integrate acquired companies to achieve desired financial benefits.. We seek to acquire or invest in businesses that offer products, services or technologies that are complementary.  We have made 14 acquisitions in the past 14 years.. We may make additional acquisitions or substantial investments in complementary businesses or products in the future.  Those acquisitions may be significantly larger than the ones completed in the past and may require the Company to increase its levels of debt, potentially resulting in the Company being assigned a lower credit rating.  However, we may not be able to identify and successfully negotiate suitable strategic acquisitions at attractive valuations, obtain financing for future acquisitions on satisfactory terms or otherwise complete future acquisitions. In recent periods, competition from other consumer products companies that are seeking similar opportunities has been particularly strong, and valuations for potential acquisition assets have been high, which has placed pressure on our ability to identify, structure and execute transactions.  In addition, all acquisitions and investments entail various risks, including the difficulty of entering new markets or product categories, the challenges of integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses or products, the potential disruption of our ongoing business and the ongoing business of the acquired company, the need to review and, if necessary, upgrade processes of the acquired company to conform to our own processes and applicable legal and regulatory requirements, and, generally, our potential inability to obtain the desired financial and strategic benefits from the acquisition or investment. Any of these risks may divert management and other resources, require us to incur unanticipated costs or delay the anticipated positive impact on our business and results of the acquisition.  The risks associated with assimilation are increased to the extent we acquire businesses that have stand-alone operations that cannot easily be integrated or operations or sources of supply outside of the U.S. and Canada, for which products are manufactured locally by third parties.  These factors could harm our financial condition and operating results.  Larger acquisitions, such as our acquisition of the WATERPIK brand in 2017, may require us to significantly increase our levels of debt.. Acquired companies or operations or newly-created ventures may not be profitable or may not achieve sales levels and profitability that justify the investments made.  In addition, future acquisitions or investments could result in substantial cash expenditures, the potentially dilutive issuances of new equity by us or the incurrence of additional debt or contingent liabilities, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.  In addition, any potential acquisitions or investments, whether or not ultimately completed, could divert the attention of management and resources from other matters that are critical to our operations.. •  Our substantial indebtedness and our financial covenants could adversely affect our operations and financial results and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations, and we may incur substantially more debt in the future, which could exacerbate these risks.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $2,374 million of total consolidated indebtedness net of debt issuance costs.  This amount of indebtedness could have important consequences, including:. •  making it more difficult for us to satisfy our cash obligations;. 18. •  limiting our ability to fund potential acquisitions;. •  requiring us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, which would reduce the availability of cash flow to fund working capital requirements, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes;. •  limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, general adverse economic conditions or changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and. •  placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt.. Additionally, our credit facility is subject to certain financial and other customary covenants.  In the event of a breach of those covenants, our lenders under the credit facility may be entitled to accelerate the related debt (and any lenders in respect of any other debt to which a cross-default provision applies may be entitled to accelerate such other debt), and we could be required to seek amendments or waivers under the debt instruments or to refinance the debt.. Moreover, we may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future to fund acquisitions, to repurchase shares or to fund other activities for general business purposes.  For example, we substantially increased our indebtedness in order to finance the acquisition of Waterpik in 2017.  If additional new debt is added to the current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify.  A substantial increase in our indebtedness could also have a negative impact on our credit rating. In this regard, failure to maintain our credit ratings could adversely affect the interest rate available to us in future financings, as well as our liquidity, competitive position and access to capital markets.  Any decision regarding future borrowings will be based on the facts and circumstances existing at the time, including market conditions and our credit rating.. •  We may not have sufficient cash flow to service our indebtedness or fund capital expenditures.. Our ability to repay and refinance our indebtedness and to fund capital expenditures depends primarily on our cash flow.  Cash flow is often subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control, and such factors may limit our ability to repay indebtedness and fund capital expenditures.  A failure to service our indebtedness or obtain additional financing as needed could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. •  We rely significantly on information technology.  Any inadequacy, interruption, theft or loss of data, malicious attack, integration failure, failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data residing on our systems or other security failure of that technology could harm our ability to effectively operate our business and damage the reputation of our brands.. We rely extensively on information technology systems, some of which are managed by third-party service providers, to conduct our business.  These systems include, but are not limited to, programs and processes relating to internal communications and communications with other parties, ordering and managing materials from suppliers, converting materials to finished products, shipping product to customers, billing customers and receiving and applying payment, processing transactions, summarizing and reporting results of operations, complying with regulatory, legal or tax requirements, collecting and storing customer, consumer, employee, investor, and other stakeholder information and personal data, and other processes necessary to manage our business.. Increased information technology security threats and more sophisticated computer crime, including advanced persistent threats, pose a potential risk to the security of our information technology systems, networks, and services, and those of our customers and other business partners, as well as the confidentiality, availability, and integrity of our data, and the data of our customers and other business partners.  As a result, our information technology systems, networks or service providers could be damaged or cease to function properly or we could suffer a loss or disclosure of business, personal or stakeholder information, due to any number of causes, including catastrophic events, power outages and security breaches.  Although we have business continuity plans in place and have implemented a breach response plan to address service interruptions, if these plans do not provide effective alternative processes on a timely basis, we may suffer interruptions in our ability to manage or conduct our operations which may adversely affect our business. We cannot guarantee that our security efforts will prevent attacks and resulting breaches or breakdowns of our, or our third-party service providers' databases or systems since the techniques used in these attacks change frequently and may be difficult to detect for periods of time.  In addition, although we have policies and procedures in place governing the secure storage of personal information collected by us or our third-party service providers, data breaches due to human error or intentional or unintentional conduct may occur in the future.  We may need to expend additional resources in the future to continue to protect against, or to address problems caused by any business interruptions or data security breaches.. Any business interruptions or data security breaches, including cyber security breaches resulting in private data disclosure of personal data, could result in lawsuits or regulatory proceedings, damage our reputation or adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows.. 19. In addition, we from time to time need to upgrade our information technology systems. If a new system does not function properly, it could affect our ability to order supplies, process and deliver customer orders and process and receive payments for our products. This could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows.. •  There can be no guarantee that we will continue to make dividend payments or repurchase the Common Stock at sustained levels or at all.. Although the Board has authorized new share repurchase programs in each of 2015, 2016 and 2017 and recently increased the amount of the quarterly cash dividends payable on the Common Stock, any Board determinations to continue to repurchase the Common Stock or to continue to pay cash dividends on the Common Stock, in each case at levels consistent with recent practice or at all, will be based primarily upon our financial condition, results of operations, business requirements, price of the Common Stock in the case of the repurchase programs, and the Board's continuing determination that the repurchase programs and the declaration of dividends under the dividend policy are in the best interests of our stockholders and are in compliance with all laws and agreements applicable to the repurchase and dividend programs.  In the event we do not declare a quarterly dividend, or discontinue our share repurchases, our stock price could be adversely affected.. •  Volatility in the financial markets may negatively impact our ability to access the credit markets.. Over the years, the banking system and financial markets have experienced severe disruption, including, among other things, bank failures and consolidations, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades, declines in asset valuations and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.  These conditions present the following risks to us, among others:. We are dependent on the continued viability of the financial institutions that participate in the syndicate that is generally obligated to fund our $1 billion unsecured revolving credit facility dated December 4, 2015 (as amended, the \"Credit Agreement\").  In addition, the Credit Agreement includes a \"commitment increase\" feature that enables us to increase the amount of our borrowing under the Credit Agreement, subject to lending commitments and certain conditions.  Any disruption in the credit markets could limit the availability of credit or the ability or willingness of financial institutions to extend credit, which could adversely affect our liquidity and capital resources.. Our short- and long-term credit ratings affect our borrowing costs and access to financing.  A downgrade in our credit ratings, as a result of a substantial increase in our indebtedness or otherwise, would increase our borrowing costs and could affect our ability to issue commercial paper.  Disruptions in the commercial paper market or other effects of volatile economic conditions on the credit market also could raise our borrowing costs for both short- and long-term debt offerings.  Either scenario could adversely affect our liquidity and capital resources.  Failure to maintain our credit ratings could adversely affect the interest rate in future financings, liquidity, competitive position and access to capital markets.. Although we believe that our operating cash flows, together with our access to the credit markets, provides us with significant discretionary funding capacity, the inability of one or more institutions to fulfill funding obligations under the Credit Agreement could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and operations.. •  Changes in tax laws and regulations or in our operations may impact our effective tax rate and may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. Our future effective tax rate could be affected by changes in tax laws and regulations or their interpretation, changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, or changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities.  The realization of deferred income tax assets is assessed and a valuation allowance is recorded if it is \"more likely than not\" that all or a portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized.  If the actual amount of our future taxable income is less than the amount we are currently projecting with respect to specific tax jurisdictions, or if there is a change in the time period within which the deferred tax asset becomes deductible, we could be required to record a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets.  The recording of a valuation allowance would result in an increase in our effective tax rate, and would have an adverse effect on our operating results.  In addition, changes in statutory tax rates may change our deferred tax assets or liability balances, which would have either a favorable or unfavorable impact on our effective tax rate.  Major developments in tax policy or trade relations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and liquidity.. 20. •  Newly enacted laws, such as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or regulations and future changes in the U.S. taxation of businesses may impact our effective tax rate or may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. On December 22, 2017, the President signed into law the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which significantly changed the Code, including a reduction in the statutory corporate income tax rate to 21%, a new limitation on the deductibility of business interest expense, restrictions on the use of net operating loss carryforwards arising in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 and changes to the taxation of income earned from foreign sources and foreign subsidiaries (including requiring a one-time transition tax on certain unrepatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries).  The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act also authorizes the Treasury Department to issue regulations with respect to the new provisions.  We cannot predict how the changes in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, regulations, or other guidance issued under it or conforming or non-conforming state tax rules might affect us or our business.  In addition, there can be no assurance that U.S. tax laws, including the corporate income tax rate, would not undergo significant changes in the near future.. •  Resolutions of tax disputes may adversely affect our earnings and cash flow.. Significant judgment is required in determining our effective tax rate and in evaluating our tax positions.  We provide for uncertain tax positions with respect to tax positions that do not meet the recognition thresholds or measurement standards mandated by applicable accounting guidance.  Fluctuations in federal, state, local and foreign taxes or changes to uncertain tax positions, including related interest and penalties, may impact our effective tax rate and our financial results.  We are regularly under audit by tax authorities, and although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of tax audits and related litigation could be materially different than that reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals.  In addition, when particular tax matters arise, a number of years may elapse before such matters are audited and finally resolved.  Favorable resolution of such matters could be recognized as a reduction to our effective tax rate in the year of resolution.  Unfavorable resolution of any tax matter could increase the effective tax rate.  Any resolution of a tax issue may require the use of cash in the year of resolution.  Additionally, adverse outcomes from tax audits that we may be subject to in any of the jurisdictions in which we operate, could result in an unfavorable change in our effective tax rate, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. •  Failure to effectively utilize or successfully assert intellectual property rights, and the loss or expiration of such rights, could materially adversely affect our competitiveness.  Infringement by us of third-party intellectual property rights could result in costly litigation and/or the modification or discontinuance of our products.. The market for our products depends to a significant extent upon the value associated with our trademarks and brand names, including ARM & HAMMER, TROJAN, OXICLEAN, L'IL CRITTERS, VITAFUSION and WATERPIK.  We own the material trademarks and brand names used in connection with the marketing and distribution of our major products both in the U.S. and in other countries.  In addition, we hold several valuable patents on our products, which we believe serve as an effective barrier to entry for new competitors.  Accordingly, we rely on trademark, trade secret, patent and copyright laws to protect our intellectual property rights.  Although most of our material intellectual property is registered in the U.S. and in certain foreign countries in which we operate, we cannot be sure that our intellectual property rights will be effectively utilized or, if necessary, successfully asserted.  There is a risk that we will not be able to obtain and perfect our own intellectual property rights, or, where appropriate, license from others intellectual property rights necessary to support new product introductions.  We cannot be sure that these rights, if obtained, will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged in the future, and we could incur significant costs in connection with legal actions relating to such rights.  In addition, even if such rights are obtained in the U.S., the laws of some of the other countries in which our products are or may be sold do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S.  If other parties infringe our intellectual property rights, they may dilute the value of our brands in the marketplace, which could diminish the value that consumers associate with our brands and harm our sales.  Our failure to perfect or successfully assert intellectual property rights could make us less competitive and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.  Also, our patents are granted for a term of 20 years from the date the patent application is filed.  We do not consider any single patent to be material to the business as a whole.. In addition, if our products are found to infringe intellectual property rights of others, the owners of those rights could bring legal actions against us claiming substantial damages for past infringement and seeking to enjoin manufacturing and marketing of the affected products.  If these legal actions are successful, in addition to any potential liability for damages from past infringement, we could be required to obtain a license in order to continue to manufacture or market the affected products, potentially adding significant costs.  We might not prevail in any action brought against us or we may be unsuccessful in securing any license for continued use and therefore have to discontinue the marketing and sale of a product.  This could make us less competitive and could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition.. 21. •  Impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets may result in a reduction in net income.. We have a material amount of goodwill, trademarks and other intangible assets, as well as other long-lived assets, which are periodically evaluated for impairment in accordance with current accounting standards.  Declines in our profitability and/or estimated cash flows related to specific intangible assets, as well as potential changes in market valuations for similar assets and market discount rates, has resulted in impairment charges from time to time, and may result in future impairment charges, which could reduce our net income and otherwise have an adverse impact on operating results.. •  Our operations and the operations of our third party manufacturers, suppliers and customers may be subject to disruption from events beyond our or their control.. Our operations, as well as the operations of our third party manufacturers, suppliers and customers, may be subject to disruption from a variety of causes, including work stoppages, material shortages, financial difficulties, acts of war, terrorism, pandemics, fire, earthquake, flooding or other natural disasters.  If a major disruption were to occur, it could result in harm to people or the natural environment, delays in shipments of products to customers or suspension of operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. •  We may not be able to attract, retain and develop key personnel.. Our future performance depends in significant part upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key personnel.  The loss of the services of one or more executive officers or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations.  This effect could be exacerbated if any officers or other key personnel left as a group or at the same time.  Our success also depends, in part, on our continuing ability to attract, retain and develop highly qualified personnel.  Competition for such personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that we can retain our key employees or attract, assimilate and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future."
