[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. In addition to the other information contained in this report, you should consider the following risk factors before investing in our securities.. Our revenue, gross margin and operating results can fluctuate significantly and unpredictably from quarter to quarter.. Our revenue, gross margin and results of operations can fluctuate significantly and unpredictably from quarter to quarter. Our budgeted expense levels are based on our visibility into customer spending plans and our projections of future revenue and gross margin. Customer spending levels are uncertain and subject to change, and reductions in our expense levels can take significant time to implement. A significant portion of our quarterly revenue is generated from customer orders received in that same quarter (which we refer to as \"book to revenue\"). Accordingly, our revenue for a particular quarter is difficult to predict, and a shortfall in expected orders in a given quarter can materially adversely affect our revenue and results of operations for that quarter or future quarterly periods. Additional factors that contribute to fluctuations in our revenue, gross margin and operating results include:. • broader macroeconomic conditions, including weakness and volatility in global markets, that affect our customers;. • changes in capital spending by customers, in particular our large communications service provider customers;. • changes in networking strategies;. • order timing, volume and cancellations;. • backlog levels;. • the level of competition and pricing pressure in our industry;. • the impact of commercial concessions or unfavorable commercial terms required to maintain incumbency or secure new opportunities with key customers;. • our level of success in achieving cost reductions and improved efficiencies in our supply chain;. • the pace and impact of price erosion that we regularly encounter in our markets;. • our incurrence of start-up costs, including lower margin phases of projects required to support initial deployments, gain new customers or enter new markets;. • the impact of technology-based price compression and the introduction or substitution of new platforms for existing solutions;. • the timing of revenue recognition on sales, particularly relating to large orders;. • the mix of revenue by product segment, geography and customer in any particular quarter;. • installation service availability and readiness of customer sites;. • availability of components and manufacturing capacity;. • adverse impact of foreign exchange; and. • seasonal effects in our business.. Quarterly fluctuations from these and other factors may also cause our revenue, gross margin and results of operations to fall short of the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which may cause volatility or decreases in our stock price.. A small number of customers, including some of the largest communications service providers, account for a significant portion of our revenue. The loss of any of these customers or a significant reduction in their spending could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. While our customer base has diversified in recent years to include network operators in additional customer segments and geographies, a significant portion of our revenue remains concentrated among a small number of customers, including large communications service providers. For example, AT&T and Verizon accounted for approximately 16.0% and 10.3% of fiscal 2017 revenue, respectively, and our ten largest customers contributed 55.6% of fiscal 2017 revenue. Consequently, our financial results are closely correlated with the spending of a relatively small number of customers. Our business and results of operations can be materially adversely impacted by reductions in spending or capital expenditure budgets by our largest customers. A number of our large service provider customers, including AT&T, with whom we experienced a decline in annual revenue during fiscal 2017, have announced various procurement initiatives or efforts to reduce capital expenditures on network infrastructure in future periods. Moreover, because we do not have long-term contracts that obligate AT&T or our other customers to purchase any minimum or guaranteed order volumes, and because customers often have the right to modify or cancel orders, there can be no assurance as to customer spending levels, which can be unpredictable, and sales to any customer could significantly decrease or cease at any time.. 19. Table of Contents. Because a number of our largest customers are communications service providers, our business and results of operations can be significantly affected by market, industry or competitive dynamics adversely affecting this segment. Our communications service provider customers continue to face a rapidly shifting competitive landscape as cloud service operators, \"over-the-top\" (OTT) providers and other content providers challenge their traditional business models and network infrastructures. Moreover, a number of our communications service provider and cable operator customers, including AT&T, Verizon and Centurylink, have either recently announced significant acquisition transactions or are in the process of significant related integration activities. Such transactions have in the past, and may in the future, result in spending delays or deferrals, or changes in preferred vendors, as the integration of combined network infrastructures proceeds and procurement strategies are determined. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain the revenue levels we have previously achieved with customers, including our communications service provider customers. The loss of any of our largest customers, or a significant reduction in their spending, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. We face intense competition that could hurt our sales and results of operations, and we expect the competitive landscape in which we operate to continue to broaden to include additional solutions providers.. We face an intense competitive market for sales of communications networking equipment, software and services. Competition is intense on a global basis, as we and our competitors aggressively seek to capture market share and displace incumbent equipment vendors. A small number of very large vendors have historically dominated our industry, many of which have substantially greater financial and marketing resources, broader product offerings, and more established relationships with service providers and other customer segments than we do. Moreover, certain customers are adopting procurement strategies that seek to purchase a broader set of networking solutions from a single or small number of vendors. Because of their scale and resources, and a more diverse set of solution offerings, certain of our larger competitors may be perceived to be a better fit for the procurement or network operating and management strategies of large service providers. We also compete with a number of smaller companies that provide significant competition for a specific product, application, customer segment or geographic market. Due to the narrower focus of their efforts, these competitors may achieve commercial availability of their products more quickly or may be more attractive to customers in a particular product niche.. Generally, competition in our markets is based on any one or a combination of the following factors:. • product functionality, speed, capacity, scalability and performance;. • price, cost per bit and total cost of ownership of our solutions;. • incumbency and strength of existing business relationships;. • ability to offer comprehensive networking solutions, consisting of hardware, software and services;. • product development that satisfies customers' immediate and future network requirements;. • flexibility and openness of platforms, including ease of integration, interoperability and integrated management;. • ability to offer solutions that accommodate a range of different consumption models;. • space and power considerations;. • manufacturing and lead-time capability; and. • services and support capabilities.. Part of our strategy for fiscal 2018 is to leverage our technology leadership and to aggressively capture additional market share and displace competitors, particularly with communications service providers internationally. In an effort to maintain our incumbency or to secure new customer opportunities, we have in the past, and may in the future, agree to aggressive pricing, commercial concessions and other unfavorable terms that result in low or negative gross margins on a particular order or group of orders. Competition can also result in commercial and legal terms and conditions that place a disproportionate amount of risk on us.. We expect the competition in our industry to continue to broaden and to intensify, as network operators pursue a diverse range of network strategies and consumption models. As these changes occur, we expect that our business will compete more directly with additional networking solution suppliers, including IP router vendors, data center switch providers and other suppliers or integrators of networking technology. In addition, as we seek increased customer adoption of our Blue Planet software platform, and network operator demands for software programmability, management and control increase, we expect to compete more directly with software vendors and information technology vendors or integrators of these solutions. We may also face competition from system and component vendors, including those in our supply chain, that develop networking products based on off-the-shelf or commoditized hardware technology, referred to as \"white box\" hardware, particularly where a customer's network strategy seeks to emphasize deployment of such product offerings or adopt a disaggregated approach to the procurement of hardware and software. Such an increase in competitive intensity, or the entry of new competitors into our markets and customers, may adversely impact our business and results of operations. If competitive pressures increase, or if we fail to compete successfully in our markets, our business and results of operations could suffer.. 20. Table of Contents. Our business and operating results could be adversely affected by unfavorable changes in macroeconomic and market conditions and reductions in the level of spending by customers in response to these conditions.. Our business and operating results, which depend significantly on general economic conditions and demand for our products and services, could be materially adversely affected by unfavorable or uncertain macroeconomic and market conditions, globally or in a particular region or country where we operate. Broad macroeconomic weakness and market volatility have previously resulted in sustained periods of decreased demand for our products and services, which has adversely affected our operating results. Macroeconomic and market conditions could be adversely affected by a variety of political, economic or other factors in the United States and international markets, which could in turn adversely affect spending levels of our customers and their end users, and could create volatility or deteriorating conditions in the markets in which we operate. Macroeconomic uncertainty or weakness could result in:. • reductions in customer spending and delay, deferral or cancellation of network infrastructure initiatives;. • increased competition for fewer network projects and sales opportunities;. • increased pricing pressure that may adversely affect revenue, gross margin and profitability;. • difficulty forecasting operating results and making decisions about budgeting, planning and future investments;. • increased overhead and production costs as a percentage of revenue;. • tightening of credit markets needed to fund capital expenditures by us or our customers;. • customer financial difficulty, including longer collection cycles and difficulties collecting accounts receivable or write-offs of receivables; and. • increased risk of charges relating to excess and obsolete inventories and the write-off of other intangible assets.. Reductions in customer spending in response to unfavorable or uncertain macroeconomic and market conditions, globally or in a particular region where we operate, would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Investment of research and development resources in communications networking technologies for which there is not an adequate market demand, or failure to sufficiently or timely invest in technologies for which there is market demand, would adversely affect our revenue and profitability.. The market for communications networking hardware and software solutions is characterized by rapidly evolving technologies, changes in market demand and increasing adoption of software-based networking solutions. We continually invest in research and development to sustain or enhance our existing hardware and software solutions and to develop or acquire new technologies including new software platforms. There is often a lengthy period between commencing these development initiatives and bringing new or improved solutions to market. During this time, technology preferences, customer demand and the markets for our solutions, or those introduced by our competitors, may move in directions that we had not anticipated. There is no guarantee that our new products, including our Blue Planet software platform, or enhancements to other solutions, will achieve market acceptance or that the timing of market adoption will be as predicted. As a result, there is a significant possibility that some of our development decisions, including significant expenditures on acquisitions, research and development costs, or investments in technologies, will not meet our expectations, and that our investment in some projects will be unprofitable. There is also a possibility that we may miss a market opportunity because we failed to invest, or invested too late, in a technology, product or enhancement sought by our customers. Changes in market demand or investment priorities may also cause us to discontinue existing or planned development for new products or features, which can have a disruptive effect on our relationships with customers. If we fail to make the right investments or fail to make them at the right time, our competitive position may suffer, and our revenue and profitability could be adversely affected.. Network equipment sales to communications service providers, Web-scale providers and other large customers often involve lengthy sales cycles and protracted contract negotiations that may require us to agree to commercial terms or conditions that negatively affect pricing, risk allocation, payment and the timing of revenue recognition.. Our sales initiatives, particularly with communications service providers, Web-scale providers and other large customers, often involve lengthy sales cycles. These selling efforts often involve a significant commitment of time and resources by us and our customers that may include extensive product testing, laboratory or network certification, network or region-specific product certification and homologation requirements for deployment in networks. Even after a customer awards its business to us or decides to purchase our solutions, the length of deployment time can vary depending upon the customer's schedule, site readiness, the size of the network deployment, the degree of custom configuration required and other factors. Additionally, these sales also often involve protracted and sometimes difficult contract negotiations in which we may deem it necessary to agree to unfavorable contractual or commercial terms that adversely affect pricing, expose us to penalties for delays or non-performance, and require us to assume a disproportionate amount of risk. To maintain incumbency with key customers for existing and future business opportunities, we may be required to offer discounted pricing, make commercial concessions or offer less favorable terms as compared to our historical business arrangements with these customers. We may also be requested to provide deferred. 21. Table of Contents. payment terms, vendor or third-party financing or other alternative purchase structures that extend the timing of payment and revenue recognition. Alternatively, customers may insist upon terms and conditions that we deem too onerous or not in our best interest, and we may be unable to reach a commercial agreement. As a result, we may incur substantial expense and devote time and resources to potential sales opportunities that never materialize or result in lower than anticipated sales.. If the market for software solutions does not evolve in the way we anticipate or if customers do not adopt our Blue Planet solutions, we may not be able to realize a key part of our business strategy.. A key part of our business strategy depends on our ability to gain market adoption for our Blue Planet software platform. If the markets relating to software solutions, including software management and control, service orchestration and automation, and SDN or NFV, do not develop as we anticipate, or if we are unable to increase market awareness and adoption of our Blue Planet solutions as a preferred solution within those markets, demand for our Blue Planet solutions may not grow. Our long-term success in the software market will depend to a significant extent on both potential customers recognizing the benefits of our next-generation Blue Planet software solutions, and the willingness of service providers and high-performance data center and other network operators to increase software programmability and automation within their networks. The market for these solutions is at an early stage, and it is difficult to predict important trends, including the potential growth, if any, of this market. If the market for these software solutions does not evolve in the way we anticipate or if customers do not adopt our solutions, we may not to be able to increase sales of our Blue Planet platform, and a key part of our business strategy would be adversely affected.. Changes in networking or procurement strategies by our customers could adversely affect our business, competitive position and results of operations.. Growing bandwidth demands and network operator efforts to reduce costs are causing network operators to consider a diverse range of approaches to the design and procurement of network infrastructure. We refer to these different approaches as \"consumption models.\" These consumption models can include: the traditional systems procurement of fully integrated solutions including hardware, software and services from the same vendor; the procurement of a fully integrated hardware solution from one vendor with the separate use of a network operator's own SDN-based controller; the procurement of an integrated photonic line system with open interfaces from one vendor and the separate or \"disaggregated\" procurement of modem technology from a different vendor; or the use of published reference designs and open source specifications for the procurement of off-the-shelf or commoditized hardware (often referred to as \"white box\" hardware) to be used with open source software. In parallel, network operators are also exploring procurement alternatives for software solutions, ranging from integrated and proprietary software platforms to fully open source software. We believe that network operators will continue to consider a variety of different consumption models. Many of these approaches are in their very early stages of development and evaluation, and the types of models and their levels of adoption will depend in significant part on the nature of the circumstances and strategies of particular network operators. Among our customers, AT&T is pursuing network strategies that emphasize enhanced software programmability, management and control of networks, and deployment of \"white box\" hardware. Other network operators, including our Web-scale customers, are playing a leading role in the transition to software-defined networking or the standardization of communications network solutions. We believe that the potential for different approaches to the procurement of networking infrastructure will require network operators and vendors to evolve and broaden their existing commercial models over time. Adoption of a range of consumption models may also alter and broaden our competitive landscape to include other technology vendors, including component vendors and software vendors. If we are unable to offer attractive solutions and commercial models that accommodate the range of consumption models ultimately adopted by our customers or within our markets, our business, competitive position and results of operations could be adversely affected.. We may experience delays in the development and production of our products that may negatively affect our competitive position and business.. Our hardware and software networking solutions, including our Blue Planet software platform, are based on complex technology, and we can experience unanticipated delays in developing, manufacturing and introducing these solutions to market. Delays in product development efforts by us or our supply chain may affect our reputation with customers, affect our ability to seize market opportunities and impact the timing and level of demand for our products. The development of new technologies may increase the complexity of supply chain management or require the acquisition, licensing or interworking with the technology of third parties. As a result, each step in the development cycle of our products presents serious risks of failure, rework or delay, any one of which could adversely affect the cost-effectiveness and timely development of our products. We may encounter delays relating to engineering development activities and software, design, sourcing and manufacture of critical components, and the development of prototypes. In addition, intellectual property disputes, failure of critical design elements, and other execution risks may delay or even prevent the release of these products. If we do not successfully develop or produce products in a timely manner, our competitive position may suffer, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed.. 22. Table of Contents. We rely upon third-party contract manufacturers and our business and results of operations may be adversely affected by risks associated with their businesses, financial condition, and the geographies in which they operate.. We rely upon third-party contract manufacturers with facilities in Canada, Mexico, Thailand and the United States to perform a substantial portion of our supply chain activities, including component sourcing, manufacturing, product testing and quality, and fulfillment and logistics relating to the distribution and support of our products. There are a number of risks associated with our dependence on contract manufacturers, including:. • reduced control over delivery schedules and planning;. • reliance on the quality assurance procedures of third parties;. • potential uncertainty regarding manufacturing yields and costs;. • availability of manufacturing capability and capacity, particularly during periods of high demand;. • risks and uncertainties associated with the locations or countries where our products are manufactured, including potential manufacturing disruptions caused by social, geopolitical or environmental factors;. • changes in U.S. law or policy governing foreign trade, manufacturing, development and investment in the countries where we currently manufacture our products, including the World Trade Organization Information Technology Agreement or other free trade agreements;. • limited warranties provided to us; and. • potential misappropriation of our intellectual property.. These and other risks could impair our ability to fulfill orders, harm our sales and impact our reputation with customers. If our contract manufacturers are unable or unwilling to continue manufacturing our products or components of our products, or if our contract manufacturers discontinue operations, we may be required to identify and qualify alternative manufacturers, which could cause us to be unable to meet our supply requirements to our customers and result in the breach of our customer agreements. The process of qualifying a new contract manufacturer and commencing volume production is expensive and time-consuming, and if we are required to change or qualify a new contract manufacturer, we would likely lose sales revenue and damage our existing customer relationships.. A substantial portion of our products are manufactured by third-party contract manufacturers in Mexico. The U.S. government has indicated a willingness to revise, renegotiate, or terminate various multilateral trade agreements and to impose new taxes on certain goods imported into the U.S. Such steps, if adopted, could adversely impact our business and operations, and may make our products less competitive in the U.S. and other markets. At this time, it remains unclear what actions, if any, will be taken by the U.S. government with respect to such trade agreements, tax policy related to international commerce, or the imposition of tariffs on goods imported into the U.S. There can be no assurance that any future legislation or executive action in the in the U.S. relating to tax policy and trade regulation would not adversely affect our business, operations and financial results.. Our reliance upon third-party component suppliers, including sole and limited source suppliers, exposes our business to additional risk and could limit our sales, increase our costs and harm our customer relationships.. We maintain a global sourcing strategy and depend on third-party suppliers in international markets for support in our product design and development, and in the sourcing of key product components and subsystems. Our products include optical and electronic components for which reliable, high-volume supply is often available only from sole or limited sources. Increases in market demand or scarcity of resources or manufacturing capability have resulted, and may in the future result, in shortages in availability of important components for our solutions, product allocation challenges, deployment delays and increased lead times. We are exposed to risks relating to unfavorable economic conditions or other similar challenges affecting the businesses and results of operations of our component providers that can affect their liquidity levels, ability to continue investing in their businesses, ability to meet development commitments and manufacturing capability. These and other challenges affecting our suppliers could expose our business to increased costs, loss or lack of supply, or discontinuation of components that can result in lost revenue, additional product costs, increased lead times and deployment delays that could harm our business and customer relationships. We do not have any guarantees of supply from these third parties, and in certain cases we are relying upon temporary commercial arrangements or standard purchase orders. As a result, there is no assurance that we will be able to secure the components or subsystems that we require, in sufficient quantity and quality, and on reasonable terms. Moreover, our access to necessary components could be adversely impacted by competition from component vendors, including those in our supply chain, that develop competing networking products based on off-the-shelf or commoditized hardware technology, referred to as \"white box\" hardware. The loss of a source of supply, or lack of sufficient availability of key components, could require that we locate an alternate source or redesign our products, either of which could result in business interruption and increased costs and could negatively affect our product gross margin and results of operations. Our business and results of operations would be negatively affected if we were to experience any significant disruption or difficulties with key suppliers affecting the price, quality, availability or timely delivery of required components.. 23. Table of Contents. Product performance problems and undetected errors affecting the performance, reliability or security of our products could damage our business reputation and negatively affect our results of operations.. The development and production of sophisticated hardware and software for communications network equipment is highly complex. Some of our products can be fully tested only when deployed in communications networks or when carrying traffic with other equipment, and software products may contain bugs that can interfere with expected performance. As a result, undetected defects or errors, and product quality, interoperability, reliability and performance problems are often more acute for initial deployments of new products and product enhancements. We have recently launched, and are in the process of launching, a number of new hardware and software offerings, including solutions targeting metro network applications and data center interconnect. Unanticipated product performance problems can relate to the design, manufacturing, installation, operation and interoperability of our products. Undetected errors can also arise as a result of defects in components, software or manufacturing, installation or maintenance services supplied by third parties, and technology acquired from or licensed by third parties. From time to time we have had to replace certain components, provide software remedies or other remediation in response to defects or bugs, and we may have to do so again in the future. Remediation of such events could materially adversely impact our business and results of operations. In addition, unanticipated security vulnerabilities relating to our products or the activities of our supply chain, including any actual or perceived exposure of our solutions to malicious software or cyber-attacks, could adversely affect our business and results of operations . Product performance, reliability, security and quality problems can negatively affect our business, and may result in some or all of the following effects:. • damage to our reputation, declining sales and order cancellations;. • increased costs to remediate defects or replace products;. • payment of liquidated damages, contractual or similar penalties, or other claims for performance failures or delays;. • increased warranty expense or estimates resulting from higher failure rates, additional field service obligations or other rework costs related to defects;. • increased inventory obsolescence;. • costs and claims that may not be covered by liability insurance coverage or recoverable from third parties; and. • delays in recognizing revenue or collecting accounts receivable.. These and other consequences relating to undetected errors affecting the quality, reliability and security of our products could negatively affect our business and results of operations.. The international scale of our sales and operations exposes us to additional risk and expense that could adversely affect our results of operations.. We market, sell and service our products globally, maintain personnel in numerous countries, and rely upon a global supply chain for sourcing important components and manufacturing our products. Our international sales and operations are subject to inherent risks, including:. • the impact of economic conditions in countries outside the United States;. • effects of adverse changes in currency exchange rates;. • greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods;. • difficulty and cost of staffing and managing foreign operations;. • higher incidence of corruption or unethical business practices;. • less protection for intellectual property rights in some countries;. • tax and customs changes that adversely impact our global sourcing strategy, manufacturing practices, transfer-pricing, or competitiveness of our products for global sales;. • social, political and economic instability;. • compliance with certain testing, homologation or customization of products to conform to local standards;. • significant changes to free trade agreements, trade protection measures, tariffs, export compliance, domestic preference procurement requirements, qualification to transact business and additional regulatory requirements; and. • natural disasters, epidemics and acts of war or terrorism.. Our international operations are subject to complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations, including anti-bribery and corruption laws, antitrust or competition laws, environmental regulations, and data privacy laws, among others. In particular, recent years have seen a substantial increase in anti-bribery law enforcement activity by U.S. regulators, and we currently operate and seek to operate in many parts of the world that are recognized as having a greater potential for corruption. Violations of any of these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and on our ability to offer our products and services in certain geographies, and significant harm to our business reputation. We cannot assure that our policies and procedures to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations and to mitigate these risks will protect us from all acts committed by our employees or third-party vendors,. 24. Table of Contents. including contractors, agents and services partners. Additionally, the costs of complying with these laws (including the costs of investigations, auditing and monitoring) could adversely affect our current or future business.. The U.S. government has indicated a willingness to revise, renegotiate, or terminate various, existing multilateral trade agreements and to impose new taxes on certain goods imported into the U.S. Because we rely upon a global sourcing strategy and third-party contract manufacturers in markets outside of the U.S. to perform substantially all of the manufacturing of our products, such steps, if adopted, could adversely impact our business and operations, and may make our products less competitive in the U.S. and other markets. At this time, it remains unclear what actions, if any, the U.S. government will take with respect to such trade agreements, tax policy related to international commerce, or imposition of tariffs on goods imported into the U.S. There can be no assurance that any future legislation or executive action in the U.S. relating to tax policy and trade regulation would not adversely affect our business, operations and financial results.. The success of our international sales and operations will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and manage effectively these risks. Our failure to manage any of these risks could harm our international operations, reduce our international sales, and could give rise to liabilities, costs or other business difficulties that could adversely affect our operations and financial results.. We may be required to write off significant amounts of inventory as a result of our inventory purchase practices, the obsolescence of product lines or unfavorable market or contractual conditions.. To avoid delays and meet customer demand for shorter delivery terms, we place orders with our contract manufacturers and component suppliers based on forecasts of customer demand. In a number of cases these suppliers may require longer lead times for fulfillment than we have with our customers. Thus, our practice of buying inventory based on forecasted demand exposes us to the risk that our customers ultimately may not order the products we have forecast or will purchase fewer products than forecast. As a result, we may purchase inventory in anticipation of sales that ultimately do not occur. We regularly incur, on a quarterly basis, expense provisions against excess or obsolete inventory. Market uncertainty can also limit our visibility into customer spending plans and compound the difficulty of forecasting inventory at appropriate levels. Moreover, our customer purchase agreements generally do not include any minimum purchase commitment. Also, customers often have the right to modify, reduce or cancel purchase quantities, and spending levels can be uncertain and subject to significant fluctuation. Our products are highly configurable, and certain new products have overlapping feature sets or application with existing products. Accordingly, it is increasingly possible that customers may forgo purchases of certain products we have inventoried in favor of a similar, newer product. We may also be exposed to the risk of inventory write-offs as a result of certain supply chain initiatives, including consolidation and transfer of key manufacturing activities. If we are required to write off or write down a significant amount of inventory, our results of operations for the applicable period would be materially adversely affected.. Our new distribution channel for our WaveLogic coherent technology could be unprofitable, expose us to increased or new forms of competition, or adversely affect our systems business and competitive position.. Our new distribution relationships with Lumentum, NeoPhotonics and Oclaro present a number of risks for our business as we make available and distribute key elements of our WaveLogic coherent optical technology as a component for the first time. In order to develop these components and design the module to be sold by our partners, we will be required to incur additional research and development costs. However, this form of distribution channel for an existing system vendor is new in our industry and unproven in the market. The success of these distribution relationships will depend on, among other things, our ability to adapt to this new component market and commercial model and the ability of our partners to manufacture, market and sell optical modules containing our components in the merchant market. There is no guarantee that the modules containing our components will achieve market acceptance or that the timing of market adoption will be as predicted. As a result, it is possible that our research and development investments in this new distribution channel will be unprofitable.. Lumentum, NeoPhotonics and Oclaro each have the unrestricted ability to sell such modules to end users, including our customers, our competitors, and other vendors or network operators that plan to build or use \"white box\" hardware. Making our critical technology available in this manner could adversely impact the sale of products in our existing systems business. For example, our customers may choose to adopt disaggregated consumption models or third-party solutions using these Ciena-designed optical modules instead of purchasing systems-based solutions from us. Alternatively, we may encounter situations where we are competing for opportunities in the market directly against a system from one of our competitors that incorporates Ciena-designed modules. In addition, making this key technology available and enabling third-party partner sales of Ciena-designed modules may adversely affect our competitive position and increase the risk that third parties misappropriate or attempt to use our technology or related intellectual property without our authorization. These and other risks or unanticipated liabilities or costs associated with our new distribution strategy could harm our reputation and adversely affect our business and our results of operations.. 25. Table of Contents. Efforts to increase our sales and capture market share in targeted international markets may be unsuccessful.. Part of our business and growth strategy is to expand our geographic reach and increase market share in international markets through a combination of direct and indirect sales resources. We are also aggressively pursuing opportunities with service provider customers in additional geographies, including Asia-Pacific and India. This diversification of our markets and customer base has been a significant component of the growth of our business. Our efforts to continue to increase our sales and capture market share in international markets may ultimately be unsuccessful or may adversely impact our financial results, including our gross margin. Our failure to continue to increase our sales and market share in international markets could limit our growth and could harm our results of operations.. Our intellectual property rights may be difficult and costly to enforce.. We generally rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secret laws to establish and maintain proprietary rights in our products and technology. Although we have been issued numerous patents and other patent applications are currently pending, there can be no assurance that any of these patents or other proprietary rights will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or that our rights will provide us with any competitive advantage. In addition, there can be no assurance that patents will be issued from pending applications or that claims allowed on any patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. Further, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States.. We are subject to the risk that third parties may attempt to access, divert or use our intellectual property without authorization. Protecting against the unauthorized use of our products, technology and other proprietary rights is difficult, time-consuming and expensive, and we cannot be certain that the steps that we are taking will prevent or minimize the risks of such unauthorized use. In addition, our intellectual property strategy must continually evolve to protect our proprietary rights in new solutions, including our software solutions. Litigation may be necessary to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity or scope of the proprietary rights of others. Such litigation could result in substantial cost and diversion of management time and resources, and there can be no assurance that we will obtain a successful result. Any inability to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could harm our ability to compete effectively.. We may incur significant costs in response to claims by others that we infringe their intellectual property rights.. From time to time third parties may assert claims or initiate litigation or other proceedings related to patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies and related standards that are relevant to our business. The rate of infringement assertions by patent assertion entities is increasing, particularly in the United States. Generally, these patent owners neither manufacture nor use the patented invention directly, and they seek to derive value from their ownership solely through royalties from patent licensing programs.. We could be adversely affected by litigation, other proceedings or claims against us, as well as claims against our manufacturers, suppliers or customers, alleging infringement of third-party proprietary rights by our products and technology, or components thereof. Regardless of the merit of these claims, they can be time-consuming, divert the time and attention of our technical and management personnel, and result in costly litigation. These claims, if successful, could require us to:. • pay substantial damages or royalties;. • comply with an injunction or other court order that could prevent us from offering certain of our products;. • seek a license for the use of certain intellectual property, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all;. • develop non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense and ultimately may not be successful; and. • indemnify our customers or other third parties pursuant to contractual obligations to hold them harmless or pay expenses or damages on their behalf.. Any of these events could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our exposure to risks associated with the use of intellectual property may increase as a result of acquisitions, as we would have a lower level of visibility into the development process with respect to such technology and the steps taken to safeguard against the risks of infringing the rights of third parties.. Our products incorporate software and other technology under license from third parties, and our business would be adversely affected if this technology were no longer available to us on commercially reasonable terms.. 26. Table of Contents. We integrate third-party software and other technology into our operating system, network management and control platforms and other products. As network operators adopt software management and control and virtualized network functions, we believe that we will be increasingly required to work with third-party technology providers. As a result, we may be required to license certain software or technology from third parties, including competitors. Licenses for software or other technology may not be available or may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. Third-party licensors may insist on unreasonable financial or other terms in connection with our use of such technology. Our failure to comply with the terms of any license may result in our inability to continue to use such license, which may result in significant costs, harm our market opportunities and require us to obtain or develop a substitute technology.. Our solutions, including our Blue Planet software platform, utilize elements of open source or publicly available software. As network operators seek to enhance programmability of networks, we expect that we and other communications networking solutions vendors will increasingly contribute to and use technology or open source software developed by standards settings bodies or other industry forums that seek to promote the integration of network layers and functions. The terms of such licenses could be construed in a manner that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. This increases our risks associated with our use of such software and may require us to seek licenses from third parties, to re-engineer our products or to discontinue the sale of such solutions. Difficulty obtaining and maintaining technology licenses with third parties may disrupt development of our products, increase our costs and adversely affect our business.. Data security breaches and cyber-attacks could compromise our intellectual property or other sensitive information and cause significant damage to our business and reputation.. In the ordinary course of our business, we maintain on our network systems, and the networks of third-party providers, certain information that is confidential, proprietary or otherwise sensitive in nature. This information includes intellectual property, financial information and confidential business information relating to us and our customers, suppliers and other business partners. We also produce networking equipment solutions and software used by network operators to ensure security and reliability in their management and transmission of data. Our customers, particularly those in regulated industries, are increasingly focused on the security features of our technology solutions, and maintaining the security of information sensitive to us and our business partners is critical to our business and reputation. Companies in the technology industry have been increasingly subject to a wide variety of security incidents, cyber-attacks and other attempts to gain unauthorized access to networks or sensitive information. Our network systems and storage applications, and those systems and storage applications maintained by our third-party providers, may be subject to unauthorized access by hackers or breached due to operator error, malfeasance or other system disruptions. The network solutions we sell to end customers may be exposed to similar risks. In some cases, it is difficult to anticipate or to detect immediately such incidents and the damage caused thereby. If an actual or perceived breach of network security occurs in our network or in the network of a business partner, the market perception of our products could be harmed. While we continually work to safeguard our products and internal network systems to mitigate these potential risks, there is no assurance that such actions will be sufficient to prevent cyber-attacks or security breaches. Security incidents involving access or improper use of our systems, networks or products could compromise confidential or otherwise protected information, destroy or corrupt data, or otherwise disrupt our operations. These security events could also negatively impact our reputation and our competitive position and could result in litigation with third parties, regulatory action, loss of business, potential liability and increased remediation costs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We rely on third-party resellers and distribution partners to sell our solutions, and our failure to effectively develop and manage these relationships could adversely affect our business and result of operations.. In order to sell into new geographic markets, diversify our customer base and broaden the application for our solutions, and to complement our global field resources, we rely on a number of third-party resellers, distribution partners and sales agents, both domestic and international, and we expect these relationships to be an important part of our business. There can be no assurance that we will successfully identify and qualify these resources or that we will realize the expected benefits of these sales relationships. Our failure to effectively identify, develop and manage our third-party sales relationships could adversely affect our business, growth and result of operations. We must also assess and qualify resellers, distribution partners and sales agents under our channel programs to ensure their understanding of and willingness and ability to adhere to our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. We may be held responsible or liable for the actions or omissions of these third parties. Actions, omissions or violations of law by our third-party sales partners or agents could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition.. Our failure to manage our relationships with third-party service partners effectively could adversely impact our financial results and relationships with customers.. 27. Table of Contents. We rely on a number of third-party service partners, both domestic and international, to complement our global service and support resources. We rely upon these partners for certain installation, maintenance and support functions. In addition, as network operators increasingly seek to rely on vendors to perform additional services relating to the design, construction and operation of their networks, the scope of work performed by our support partners is likely to increase and may include areas where we have less experience providing or managing such services. We must successfully identify, assess, train and certify qualified service partners in order to ensure the proper installation, deployment and maintenance of our products, as well as to ensure the skillful performance of other services associated with expanded solutions offerings, including site assessment and construction-related services. We must also assess and certify service partners in order to ensure their understanding of and willingness and ability to adhere to our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. Vetting and certification of these partners can be costly and time-consuming, and certain partners may not have the same operational history, financial resources and scale as Ciena. Moreover, certain service partners may provide similar services for other companies, including our competitors. We may not be able to manage our relationships with our service partners effectively, and we cannot be certain that they will be able to deliver services in the manner or time required, that we will be able to maintain the continuity of their services, or that they will adhere to our approach to ethical business practices. We may also be exposed to a number of risks or challenges relating to the performance of our service partners, including:. • delays in recognizing revenue;. • liability for injuries to persons, damage to property or other claims relating to the actions or omissions of our service partners;. • our services revenue and gross margin may be adversely affected; and. • our relationships with customers could suffer.. As our service offering expands and customers look to identify vendors capable of managing, integrating and optimizing multi-domain, multi-vendor networks with unified software, our relationships with third-party service partners will become increasingly important. If we do not effectively manage our relationships with third-party service partners, or if they fail to perform these services in the manner or time required, our financial results and relationships with customers could be adversely affected.. We may be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates.. As a company with global operations, we face exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates. Due to our global presence, a significant percentage of our revenue, operating expense and assets and liabilities are non-U.S. Dollar denominated and therefore subject to foreign currency fluctuation. We face exposure to currency exchange rates as a result of the growth in our non-U.S. Dollar denominated operating expense in Canada, Europe, Asia and Latin America. An increase in the value of the U.S. Dollar could increase the real cost to our customers of our products in those markets outside the United States where we sell in Dollars, and a weakened Dollar could increase the cost of local operating expenses and procurement of materials or service that we purchase in foreign currencies. From time to time, we may hedge against currency exposure associated with anticipated foreign currency cash flows or assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currency. Such attempts to offset the impact of currency fluctuations are costly, and we cannot hedge against all foreign exchange rate volatility. Losses associated with these hedging instruments and the adverse effect of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation may negatively affect our results of operations.. We may be exposed to unanticipated risks and additional obligations in connection with our resale of complementary products or technology of other companies.. We have entered into agreements with strategic supply partners that permit us to distribute their products or technology. We may rely upon these relationships to add complementary products or technologies, to diversify our product portfolio, or to address a particular customer or geographic market. We may enter into additional original equipment manufacturer (OEM), resale or similar strategic arrangements in the future. We may incur unanticipated costs or difficulties relating to our resale of third-party products. Our third-party relationships could expose us to risks associated with the business, financial condition, intellectual property rights and supply chain continuity of such partners, as well as delays in their development, manufacturing or delivery of products or technology. We may also be required by customers to assume warranty, indemnity, service and other commercial obligations, including potential liability to customers, greater than the commitments, if any, made to us by our technology partners. Some of our strategic supply partners are relatively small companies with limited financial resources. If they are unable to satisfy their obligations to us or our customers, we may have to expend our own resources to satisfy these obligations. Exposure to these risks could harm our reputation with key customers and could negatively affect our business and our results of operations.. Our exposure to the credit risks of our customers and resellers may make it difficult to collect receivables and could adversely affect our revenue and operating results.. 28. Table of Contents. In the course of our sales to customers and resale channel partners, we may have difficulty collecting receivables, and our business and results of operations could be exposed to risks associated with uncollectible accounts. Lack of liquidity in the capital markets, macroeconomic weakness and market volatility may increase our exposure to these credit risks. Our attempts to monitor customer payment capability and to take appropriate measures to protect ourselves may not be sufficient, and it is possible that we may have to write down or write off accounts receivable. Such write-downs or write-offs could negatively affect our operating results for the period in which they occur, and, if large, could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and operating results.. Our business is dependent upon the proper functioning of our internal business processes and information systems, and modification or interruption of such systems or external factors may disrupt our business, processes and internal controls.. We rely upon a number of internal business processes and information systems to support key business functions, and the efficient operation of these processes and systems is critical to managing our business. Our business processes and information systems must be sufficiently scalable to support the growth of our business and may require modifications or upgrades that expose us to a number of operational risks. We continually pursue initiatives to transform and optimize our business operations through the reengineering of certain processes, investment in automation, and engagement of strategic partners or resources to assist with certain business functions. These changes require a significant investment of capital and human resources and may be costly and disruptive to our operations, and they could impose substantial demands on management time. These changes may also require changes in our information systems, modification of internal control procedures and significant training of employees or third-party resources. There can be no assurance that our business and operations will not experience disruption in connection with our current system upgrade or other initiatives. Even if we do not encounter these adverse effects or disruption in our business, the design and implementation of these new systems may be more costly than anticipated.. Our information technology systems, and those of third-party information technology providers or business partners, may also be vulnerable to damage or disruption caused by circumstances beyond our control, including catastrophic events, power anomalies or outages, natural disasters, viruses or malware, and computer system or network failures. We may also be exposed to cyber-security related incidents, including unauthorized access of information systems and disclosure or diversion of intellectual property or confidential data. There can be no assurance that our business systems or those of our third-party business partners will not be subject to similar incidents, exposing us to significant cost, reputational harm and disruption or damage to our business.. Outstanding indebtedness under our convertible notes and senior secured credit facilities may adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations and could limit our business.. As of the date of this report, we had approximately $567.1 million in indebtedness repayable at maturity under our outstanding convertible notes. In the event that some or all of these notes are converted into common stock, the ownership interests of our existing stockholders will be diluted, and any sales of such shares in the public market following conversion may adversely affect the market price for our common stock. We are also a party to credit agreements relating to a $250 million senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility and outstanding senior secured term loans with approximately $398.0 million repayable at maturity. The agreements governing these credit facilities contain certain covenants that limit our ability, among other things, to incur additional debt, create liens and encumbrances, pay cash dividends, redeem or repurchase stock, enter into certain acquisition transactions or transactions with affiliates, repay certain indebtedness, make investments, or dispose of assets. The agreements also include customary remedies, including the right of the lenders to take action with respect to the collateral securing the loans, that would apply should we default or otherwise be unable to satisfy our debt obligations.. Our indebtedness could have important negative consequences, including:. • increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions;. • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing, particularly in unfavorable capital and credit market conditions;. • debt service and repayment obligations that may adversely impact our results of operations and reduce the availability of cash resources for other business purposes;. • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets; and. • placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage to competitors that have better access to capital resources.. We may also enter into additional transactions or credit facilities, including equipment loans, working capital lines of credit and other long-term debt, which may increase our indebtedness and result in additional restrictions upon our business. In addition, major debt rating agencies regularly evaluate our debt based on a number of factors. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our existing debt ratings, and failure to do so could adversely affect our cost of funds, liquidity and access to capital markets.. 29. Table of Contents. Significant volatility and uncertainty in the capital markets may limit our access to funding on favorable terms or at all.. The operation of our business requires significant capital. We have accessed the capital markets in the past and have successfully raised funds, including through the issuance of equity, convertible notes and other indebtedness, to increase our cash position, support our operations and undertake strategic growth initiatives. We regularly evaluate our liquidity position, debt obligations, and anticipated cash needs to fund our long-term operating plans, and we may consider it necessary or advisable to raise additional capital or incur additional indebtedness in the future. If we raise additional funds through further issuance of equity or securities convertible into equity, or undertake certain transactions intended to address our existing indebtedness, our existing stockholders could suffer dilution in their percentage ownership of our company or our leverage and outstanding indebtedness could increase. Global capital markets have undergone periods of significant volatility and uncertainty in the past, and there can be no assurance that such financing alternatives will be available to us on favorable terms or at all, should we determine it necessary or advisable to seek additional capital.. We are a party to legal proceedings, investigations and other claims or disputes, which are costly to defend and, if determined adversely to us, could require us to pay fines or damages, undertake remedial measures or prevent us from taking certain actions, any of which could adversely affect our business.. In the course of our business, we are, and in the future may be, a party to legal proceedings, investigations and other claims or disputes, which have related and may relate to subjects including commercial transactions, intellectual property, securities, employee relations, or compliance with applicable laws and regulations. A description of certain of these matters can be found in Note 24, Commitments and Contingencies, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Report. Among these matters, recently we voluntarily contacted the Securities and Exchange Commission and the U.S. Department of Justice to advise them of an internal investigation that we initiated to determine whether certain payments to an individual employed by a customer in a country in the ASEAN region may have violated applicable laws and regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.. Legal proceedings and investigations are inherently uncertain and we cannot predict their duration, scope, outcome or consequences. There can be no assurance that these or any such matters that have been or may in the future be brought against us will be resolved favorably. In connection with any government investigations, in the event the government takes action against us or the parties resolve or settle the matter, we may be required to pay substantial fines or civil and criminal penalties and/or be subject to equitable remedies, including disgorgement or injunctive relief. And, other legal or regulatory proceedings, including lawsuits filed by private litigants, may also follow as a consequence. These matters are likely to be expensive and time-consuming to defend, settle, and/or resolve, and may require us to implement certain remedial measures that could prove costly or disruptive to our business and operations. They may also cause damage to our business reputation. The unfavorable resolution of one or more of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. The potential effects of the referendum on the UK's membership in the European Union remain uncertain.. On June 23, 2016, the United Kingdom (UK) held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the European Union (EU), commonly referred to as \"Brexit,\" and on March 29, 2017, notified the EU that it intended to exit as provided in Article 50 of the Treaty on European Union. The terms of the withdrawal are subject to a negotiation period that could last at least two years from the withdrawal notification date. This will be either accompanied or followed by additional negotiations between the EU and the UK concerning the future relations between the parties. Nevertheless, Brexit has created significant uncertainty about the future relationship between the UK and the EU. It is possible that the level of economic activity in this region will be adversely impacted and that there will be increased regulatory and legal complexities, including those relating to tax, trade, security, and employees. Such changes could be costly and potentially disruptive to our operations and business relationships in these markets. In addition, Brexit could lead to economic uncertainty, including significant volatility in global stock markets and currency exchange rates, that may adversely impact our business. While we have adopted certain financial measures to reduce the risks of doing business internationally, we cannot ensure that such measures will be adequate to allow us to operate without disruption or adverse impact to our business and financial results in the affected regions.. Restructuring activities could disrupt our business and affect our results of operations.. We have often taken steps, including reductions in force, office closures, and internal reorganizations to reduce the size and cost of our operations, improve efficiencies, or realign our organization and staffing to better match our market opportunities and our technology development initiatives. We may take similar steps in the future as we seek to realize operating synergies, to optimize our operations to achieve our target operating model and profitability objectives, or to reflect more closely changes in the strategic direction of our business. These changes could be disruptive to our business, including our research and development efforts, and could result in significant expense, including accounting charges for inventory and technology-related. 30. Table of Contents. write-offs, workforce reduction costs and charges relating to consolidation of excess facilities. Substantial expense or charges resulting from restructuring activities could adversely affect our results of operations and use of cash in those periods in which we undertake such actions.. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, we may be unable to manage our business effectively.. Competition to attract and retain highly skilled technical, engineering and other personnel with experience in our industry is intense, and our employees have been the subject of targeted hiring by our competitors. Competition is particularly intense in certain jurisdictions where we have research and development centers, including the Silicon Valley area of northern California, and we may experience difficulty retaining and motivating existing employees and attracting qualified personnel to fill key positions. Because we rely upon equity awards as a significant component of compensation, particularly for our executive team, a lack of positive performance in our stock price, reduced grant levels, or changes to our compensation program may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key employees. In addition, none of our executive officers is bound by an employment agreement for any specific term. The loss of members of our management team or other key personnel could be disruptive to our business, and, were it necessary, it could be difficult to replace members of our management team or other key personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, we may be unable to manage our business effectively, and our operations and financial results could suffer.. Strategic acquisitions and investments could disrupt our operations and may expose us to increased costs and unexpected liabilities.. We may acquire or make investments in other technology companies, or enter into other strategic relationships, to expand the markets we address, diversify our customer base or acquire, or accelerate the development of, technology or products. To do so, we may use cash, issue equity that could dilute our current stockholders, or incur debt or assume indebtedness. Strategic transactions can involve numerous additional risks, including:. • failure to achieve the anticipated transaction benefits or the projected financial results and operational synergies;. • greater than expected acquisition and integration costs;. • disruption due to the integration and rationalization of operations, products, technologies and personnel;. • diversion of management attention;. • difficulty completing projects of the acquired company and costs related to in-process projects;. • difficulty managing customer transitions or entering into new markets;. • the loss of key employees;. • disruption or termination of business relationships with customers, suppliers, vendors, landlords, licensors and other business partners;. • ineffective internal controls over financial reporting;. • dependence on unfamiliar suppliers or manufacturers;. • assumption of or exposure to unanticipated liabilities, including intellectual property infringement or other legal claims; and. • adverse tax or accounting impact.. As a result of these and other risks, our acquisitions, investments or strategic transactions may not realize the intended benefits and may ultimately have a negative impact on our business, results of operation and financial condition.. Changes in government regulation affecting the communications industry and the businesses of our customers could harm our prospects and operating results.. The Federal Communications Commission (the \"FCC\") has jurisdiction over the U.S. communications industry, and similar agencies have jurisdiction over the communication industries in other countries. Many of our largest customers, including service providers and cable and multiservice network operators, are subject to the rules and regulations of these agencies, while others participate in and benefit from government-funded programs that encourage the development of network infrastructures. These regulatory requirements and funding programs are subject to changes that may adversely impact our customers, with resulting adverse impacts on our business.. Under current rules, the FCC regulates broadband internet service providers as telecommunications service carriers under Title II of the Telecommunications Act and enforces net neutrality regulations that prohibit blocking, degrading or prioritizing certain types of internet traffic. On December 14, 2017, the FCC voted to repeal these net neutrality regulations, however, the repeal has not yet taken effect and the future impact of such repeal and any challenges thereto remains uncertain. Changes in regulatory requirements or uncertainty associated with the regulatory environment could delay or serve as a disincentive to investment in network infrastructures by network operators, which could adversely affect the sale of our products and services.. 31. Table of Contents. Similarly, changes in regulatory tariff requirements or other regulations relating to pricing or terms of carriage on communications networks could slow the development or expansion of network infrastructures and adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition.. Government regulations affecting the use, import or export of products could adversely affect our operations, negatively affect our revenue and increase our costs.. The United States and various foreign governments have established certain trade and tariff requirements under which we have implemented a global approach to the sourcing and manufacture of our products, as well as the distribution and fulfillment to customers around the world. Changes or restrictions impacting the import of our components to manufacturing facilities outside of the U.S., the importation of finished goods to the U.S., or the export of products globally, would adversely affect our operations, increase our costs and adversely impact our revenue. Government regulation of usage, import or export of our products, or our technology within our products, or our failure to obtain required approvals for our products, could harm our international and domestic sales and adversely affect our revenue and costs of sales. Failure to comply with such regulations could result in enforcement actions, fines, penalties or restrictions on export privileges. In addition, costly tariffs on our equipment, restrictions on importation, trade protection measures and domestic preference requirements of certain countries could limit our access to these markets and harm our sales. These regulations could adversely affect the sale or use of our products, substantially increase our cost of sales and adversely affect our business and revenue.. Government regulations related to the environment, potential climate change and other social initiatives could adversely affect our business and operating results.. Our operations are regulated under various federal, state, local and international laws relating to the environment and potential climate change. If we were to violate or become liable under these laws or regulations, we could incur fines, costs related to damage to property or personal injury, and costs related to investigation or remediation activities. Our product design efforts and the manufacturing of our products are also subject to evolving requirements relating to the presence of certain materials or substances in our equipment, including regulations that make producers for such products financially responsible for the collection, treatment and recycling of certain products. For example, our operations and financial results may be negatively affected by environmental regulations, such as the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) and Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (RoHS) that have been adopted by the European Union. Compliance with these and similar environmental regulations may increase our cost of designing, manufacturing, selling and removing our products. The SEC has adopted disclosure requirements regarding the use of \"conflict minerals\" mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries (\"DRC\") and disclosure requirements with respect to procedures regarding a manufacturer's efforts to prevent the sourcing of such minerals from the DRC. Certain of these minerals are present in our products. SEC rules implementing these requirements may have the effect of reducing the pool of suppliers that can supply DRC \"conflict free\" components and parts, and we may not be able to obtain conflict free products or supplies in sufficient quantities for our operations. Because our supply chain is complex, we may face reputational challenges with our customers, stockholders and other stakeholders if we are unable to verify sufficiently the origins for the \"conflict minerals\" used in our products and cannot assert that our products are \"conflict free.\" Environmental or similar social initiatives may also make it difficult to obtain supply of compliant components or may require us to write off non-compliant inventory, which could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results.. We may be required to write down the value of certain significant assets which would adversely affect our operating results.. We have a number of significant assets on our balance sheet as of October 31, 2017 and the value of these assets can be adversely impacted by factors related to our business and operating performance, as well as factors outside of our control. As of October 31, 2017, our balance sheet includes a $1.155 billion net deferred tax asset. The value of of our net deferred tax assets can be significantly impacted by changes in tax policy or our tax planning strategy. For example, the value of our net deferred tax asset would decrease significantly if the U.S. corporate income tax rate is reduced, as proposed in tax reform legislation recently passed by both houses of the U.S. Congress on December 20, 2017. Consequently, when, and if, the President signs this proposed legislation into law, we expect our operating results to be materially adversely affected by a non-cash charge to reflect the reduction in value of these assets.. As of October 31, 2017, our balance sheet also includes $267.5 million of goodwill. We test each reporting unit for impairment of goodwill on an annual basis and, between annual tests, if an event occurs or circumstances change that would, more likely than not, reduce the fair value of the reporting unit below its carrying value. As of October 31, 2017, our balance sheet also includes $456.3 million in long-lived assets, which includes $101.0 million of intangible assets. Valuation of our long-lived assets requires us to make assumptions about future sales prices and sales volumes for our products. These assumptions are used to forecast future, undiscounted cash flows upon which our estimates are based. The value of our net deferred tax asset. 32. Table of Contents. above may also be subject to change in the future, based on our actual or projected generation of future taxable income. If  market conditions or our forecasts for our business or any particular operating segment change, we may be required to reassess the value of these assets. We could be required to record an impairment charge against our goodwill and long-lived assets or a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. Any write down of the value of these significant assets would have the effect of decreasing our earnings or increasing our losses in such period. If we are required to take a substantial write down or charge, our operating results would be materially adversely affected in such period.. Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and stock price.. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we include in our annual report a report containing management's assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year and a statement as to whether or not such internal controls are effective. Compliance with these requirements has resulted in, and is likely to continue to result in, significant costs and the commitment of time and operational resources. Certain ongoing initiatives, including efforts to transform business processes or to transition certain functions to third-party resources or providers, will necessitate modifications to our internal control systems, processes and related information systems as we optimize our business and operations. Our expansion into new regions could pose further challenges to our internal control systems. We cannot be certain that our current design for internal control over financial reporting, or any additional changes to be made, will be sufficient to enable management to determine that our internal controls are effective for any period, or on an ongoing basis. If we are unable to assert that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, market perception of our financial condition and the trading price of our stock may be adversely affected, and customer perception of our business may suffer.. Our stock price is volatile.. Our common stock price has experienced substantial volatility in the past and may remain volatile in the future. Volatility in our stock price can arise as a result of a number of the factors discussed in this \"Risk Factors\" section. During fiscal 2017, our closing stock price ranged from a high of $27.50 per share to a low of $19.21 per share. The stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuation that has affected the market price of many technology companies, with such volatility often unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. Divergence between our actual or anticipated financial results and published expectations of investment analysts, or the expectations of the market generally, can cause significant swings in our stock price. Our stock price can also be affected by market conditions in our industry as well as announcements that we, our competitors, vendors or our customers may make. These may include announcements of financial results or changes in estimated financial results, technological innovations, the gain or loss of customers, or key opportunities. Our common stock is also included in certain market indices, and any change in the composition of these indices to exclude our company would adversely affect our stock price. These and other factors affecting macroeconomic conditions or financial markets may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock in the future.. 33. Table of Contents"
