[1] "ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. As a large company operating in a complex industry, we encounter a variety of risks and uncertainties that could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, results of operations, financial condition or the trading price of our securities. You should carefully consider each of the risks and uncertainties discussed below, together with other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect us. The following risk factors have been organized by category for ease of use; however many of the risks may have impacts in more than one category. These categories, therefore, should be viewed as a starting point for understanding the significant risks facing us and not as a limitation on the potential impact of the matters discussed. Risk factors are not necessarily listed in order of importance.. Strategic and Operational Risks. Future performance of our business will depend on our ability to execute our strategic and operational initiatives effectively.. The future performance of our business will depend in large part on our ability to effectively implement and execute our strategic and operational initiatives including: (1) driving value creation in our targeted areas of business growth; (2) pursuing additional opportunities to expand our capabilities through solutions, segments, distribution channels and geographies; and (3) creating additional value through capital deployment. Successfully executing on these initiatives depends on a number of factors, including our ability to:. <U+0095> differentiate our products and services from those of our competitors;    <U+0095> develop and introduce new and innovative products or programs, particularly in response to government regulation and the increased focus on consumer-directed products;    <U+0095> grow our commercial product portfolio, including managing the uncertainties associated with the mix and volume of business on public health insurance exchanges;    <U+0095> identify and introduce the proper mix or integration of products that will be accepted by the marketplace;     <U+0095> attract and retain sufficient numbers of qualified employees;    <U+0095> attract, develop and maintain collaborative relationships with a sufficient number of qualified partners, including physicians and other health care providers in an environment of growing shortages of primary care professionals and consolidation within the provider industry;    <U+0095> attract new and maintain existing customer relationships;    <U+0095> transition health care providers from volume-based fee-for-service arrangements to a value-based system;     <U+0095> improve medical cost competitiveness in targeted markets;    <U+0095> manage our medical and administrative costs effectively;    <U+0095> identify and enter into strategic relationships;    <U+0095> manage our balance sheet exposures effectively, including our pension funding obligations; and    <U+0095> manage our Global Health Care operating expense ratio effectively.. If these initiatives fail or are not executed on effectively, our consolidated financial position and results of operations could be negatively affected. For example, efforts to reduce operating expenses while maintaining the necessary resources and talent pool are important and, if not managed effectively, could have long-term effects on our business by negatively impacting our ability to drive improvements in the quality of our products and services. For our strategic initiatives to succeed, we must effectively integrate our operations, including our acquired businesses, actively work to ensure consistency throughout the organization, and promote a global mind-set along with a focus on individual customers. If we fail to do so, our business may be unable to grow as planned, or the result of expansion may be unsatisfactory. In addition, the current competitive, economic and regulatory environment requires our organization to adapt rapidly and nimbly to new opportunities and challenges. We will be unable to do so if we do not make important decisions quickly, define our appetite for risk specifically, implement new governance, managerial and organizational processes smoothly and communicate roles and responsibilities clearly.. We face price competition and other pressures that could result in premiums that are insufficient to cover the cost of the health care services delivered to our customers.. While health plans compete on the basis of many service and quality-related factors, we expect that price will continue to be a significant basis of competition. Our client and customer contracts are subject to negotiation as clients and customers seek to contain their costs, including by reducing benefits offered or elected. Increasingly, our clients seek to negotiate performance guarantees that require us to pay penalties if the guaranteed performance standard is not met. As brokers and benefit consultants seek to enhance their revenue streams, they look to take on services that we typically provide. Alternatively, our clients and customers may purchase different types of products that are less profitable, or move to a competitor to obtain more favorable pricing. Each of these events would likely negatively impact our financial results.. Further, federal and state regulatory agencies may restrict our ability to implement changes in premium rates. For example, the ACA includes an annual rate review requirement to prohibit unreasonable rate increases in the individual and small group health insurance markets and established minimum medical loss ratios for certain plans, which could make it more difficult to obtain price increases. Fiscal concerns regarding the continued viability of programs such as Medicare may cause decreasing reimbursement rates, delays in premium payments or. CIGNA CORPORATION - 2017 Form 10-K    21. Back to Contents. PART I  ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. insufficient increases in reimbursement rates for government-sponsored programs in which we participate. Any limitation on our ability to maintain or increase our premium or reimbursement levels, or a significant loss of customers resulting from our need to increase or maintain premium or reimbursement levels, could adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, factors such as business consolidations and strategic alliances will likely continue to create pressure to contain or otherwise restrict price increases for products and services, despite increasing medical costs. Continuing consolidation among physicians, hospitals and other health care providers, the emergence of accountable care organizations, vertical integration of health care providers and other entities, changes in the organizational structures chosen by physicians, hospitals and health care providers, new market entrants, including those not traditionally in the health care industry, and the ability of larger employers to contract directly with providers may impact how we compete and the way we price our products. Technological advancements, such as those that allow customers and providers to access medical information remotely and telemedicine, may also affect how we compete and price our products. Our product margins and growth depend, in part, on our ability to compete effectively in our markets, set prices appropriately in highly competitive markets to keep or increase our market share, increase customers as planned, and avoid losing accounts with favorable medical cost experience while retaining or increasing our customer base in accounts with unfavorable medical cost experience.. Premiums in the health care business are generally set for one-year periods and are priced well in advance of the date on which the contract commences. Our revenue on Medicare policies is based on bids submitted mid-year in the year before the contract year. Although we base the premiums we charge and our Medicare bids on our estimate of future health care costs over the contract period, actual costs may exceed what we estimate and charge in premiums due to factors such as medical cost inflation, higher than expected utilization of medical services, new or costly drugs, treatments and technology and customer mix. Our health care costs also are affected by external events that we cannot forecast or project and over which we have little or no control, such as influenza-related health care costs, epidemics, pandemics, terrorist attacks or other man-made disasters, natural disasters or other events that materially increase utilization of medical and/or other covered services, as well as changes in customers' health care utilization patterns and provider billing practices. Relatively small differences between predicted and actual medical costs or utilization rates as a percentage of revenue can result in significant changes in our financial results. Our profitability depends, in part, on our ability to accurately predict, price for and effectively manage future health care costs through disciplined underwriting, provider contracting, utilization management and product design.. The reserves we hold for expected medical claims are based on estimates that involve an extensive degree of judgment and are inherently variable. If actual claims exceed our estimates, our operating results could be materially adversely affected, and our ability to take timely corrective actions to contain future costs may be limited.. We maintain and record medical claims reserves on our balance sheet for estimated future payments. Our estimates of health care costs payable are based on a number of factors, including historical claim experience, but this estimation process requires extensive judgment. Considerable variability is inherent in such estimates, and the accuracy of the estimates is highly sensitive to changes in medical claims submission and processing patterns and/or procedures, changes in customer base and product mix, changes in the utilization of medical and/or other covered services, changes in medical cost trends, changes in our medical management practices and the introduction of new benefits and products. Furthermore, if we are not able to accurately and promptly anticipate and detect medical cost trends, our ability to take timely corrective actions to limit future costs and reflect our current benefit cost experience in our pricing process may be limited. In addition, while we continually review estimates of future payments relating to medical claims costs for services incurred in the current and prior periods and make adjustments to our reserves, the actual health care costs may exceed the reserves we have recorded.. If we fail to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with physicians, hospitals and other health care providers, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected.. We directly and indirectly contract with physicians, hospitals and other health care professionals and facilities to provide health care services to our customers. Our results of operations are substantially dependent on our ability to contract for these services at competitive prices. In any particular market, physicians, hospitals and health care providers may enter into exclusive arrangements with competitors or simply refuse to contract with us, demand higher payments or take other actions that could result in higher medical costs or less desirable products for our customers. In some markets, certain providers, particularly hospitals, physician/hospital organizations and multi-specialty physician groups, may have significant or controlling market positions that could result in a diminished bargaining position for us. If providers refuse to contract with us, use their market position to negotiate more favorable contracts or place us at a competitive disadvantage, our ability to market products or to be profitable in those areas could be materially and adversely affected. Establishing collaborative arrangements with physician groups, specialist groups, independent practice associations, hospitals and health care delivery systems is key to our strategic focus to transition from volume-based fee-for-service arrangements to a value-based health care system. If such collaborative arrangements do not result in the lower medical costs that we project or if we fail to attract health care providers to such arrangements, or are less successful at implementing such arrangements than our competitors, our attractiveness to customers may be reduced and our ability to profitably grow our business may be adversely affected.. Our ability to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with health care providers also may be negatively impacted by other factors not associated with us, such as changes in Medicare and/or Medicaid reimbursement levels, increasing pressure on revenue and other pressures on health care providers and increasing consolidation activity among hospitals, physician groups and health care providers. For example, ongoing reductions by CMS and state governments in amounts payable to providers, particularly hospitals, for services provided to Medicare and Medicaid enrollees may exacerbate the cost shift to private payors, thereby adversely impacting our ability to maintain or develop new cost-effective health care provider contracts or result in a loss of revenues or customers.. Continuing consolidation among physicians, hospitals and other health care providers, the emergence of accountable care organizations, vertical integration of health care providers and other entities, changes in the organizational structures chosen by physicians, hospitals and health care providers and new market entrants, including those not traditionally in the health care industry, may affect the way providers interact with us and may change the competitive landscape in which we operate. In some instances, these organizations may compete directly. 22    CIGNA CORPORATION - 2017 Form 10-K. Back to Contents. PART I  ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. with us, potentially affecting the way that we price our products and services or cause us to incur increased costs if we change our operations to be more competitive.. Out-of-network providers are not limited by any agreement with us in the amounts they bill. While benefit plans place limits on the amount of charges that will be considered for reimbursement, out-of-network providers have become increasingly sophisticated and aggressive and such limitations can be difficult to enforce. As a result, the outcome of disputes where we do not have a provider contract may cause us to pay higher medical or other benefit costs than we projected.. As a global company, we face political, legal, operational, regulatory, economic and other risks that present challenges and could negatively affect our multinational operations and/or our long-term growth.. As a global company, our business is increasingly exposed to risks inherent in foreign operations. These risks can vary substantially by market, and include political, legal, operational, regulatory, economic and other risks, including government intervention that we do not face in our U.S. operations. The global nature of our business and operations may present challenges including, but not limited to, those arising from:. <U+0095> varying regional and geopolitical business conditions and demands;    <U+0095> regulation that may discriminate against U.S. companies, favor nationalization or expropriate assets;    <U+0095> price controls or other pricing issues and exchange controls or other restrictions that prevent us from transferring funds from these operations out of the countries in which we operate or converting local currencies that our foreign operations hold into U.S. dollars or other currencies;    <U+0095> foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations that may have an impact on the future costs or on future sales and cash flows from our international operations, and any countermeasures that we may implement may not be effective in reducing the effect of volatile currencies and other risks of our international operations;     <U+0095> tax positions and applicable regulations that may be subject to interpretation or uncertainty to a greater extent than in the United States;     <U+0095> our reliance on local sales forces for some operations in countries that may have labor problems and/or less flexible employee relationships that can be difficult and expensive to terminate, where laws and regulations regarding employment status may be less clear, or where changes in local regulation or law may disrupt business operations;     <U+0095> effectively managing our partner relationships in countries outside of the United States;    <U+0095> managing more geographically diverse operations and projects;    <U+0095> operating in new foreign markets that may require considerable management time before operations generate any significant revenues and earnings;     <U+0095> providing data protection on a global basis and sufficient levels of technical support in different locations;     <U+0095> the global trend for companies to enact local data residency requirements;    <U+0095> political conditions, including the June 2016 referendum in the United Kingdom to leave the European Union and tensions in the Korean Peninsula;     <U+0095> acts of war, terrorism, natural disasters or pandemics in locations where we operate; and    <U+0095> general economic and political conditions.. These factors may increase in significance as we continue to expand globally, and any one of these challenges could negatively affect our operations or long-term growth. For example, due to the concentration of our international business in South Korea, the Global Supplemental Benefits segment is exposed to potential losses resulting from economic and regulatory changes in that country and the geopolitical climate in the Korean Peninsula, as well as foreign currency movements affecting the South Korean currency, that could have a significant impact on the segment's results and our consolidated financial results.. International operations also require us to devote significant resources to implement controls and systems in new markets to comply with, and to ensure that our vendors and partners comply with, U.S. and foreign laws prohibiting bribery, corruption and money laundering, in addition to other regulations regarding, among other things, our products, direct-to-consumer communications, customer privacy, data protection and data residency. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or employees, restrictions or outright prohibitions on the conduct of our business and significant reputational harm. We must regularly reassess the size, capability and location of our global infrastructure and make appropriate changes, and must have effective change management processes and internal controls in place to address changes in our business and operations. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate these risks and manage these challenges. Our failure to comply with laws and regulations governing our conduct outside the United States or to establish constructive relations with non-U.S. regulators could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and long-term growth.. We are dependent on the success of our relationships with third parties for various services and functions, including, but not limited to, certain pharmacy benefit management services.. To improve operating costs, productivity and efficiencies, we contract with third parties for the provision of specific services, such as certain pharmacy benefit management services, information technology, medical management services, call center and claim services. Our operations may be adversely affected if a third party fails to satisfy its obligations to us or if the arrangement is terminated in whole or in part or if there is a contractual dispute between us and the third party. Even though contracts are intended to provide certain protections, we have limited control. CIGNA CORPORATION - 2017 Form 10-K    23. Back to Contents. PART I  ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. over the actions of third parties. For example, noncompliance with any privacy or security laws and regulations or any security breach involving one of our third-party vendors or a dispute between us and a third party vendor related to our arrangement could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and reputation. In addition, with respect to services or functions outsourced to third parties in foreign jurisdictions, we also are exposed to risks inherent in conducting business outside of the United States.. Outsourcing also may require us to change our existing operations, adopt new processes for managing these service providers and/or redistribute responsibilities to realize the potential productivity and operational efficiencies. If there are delays or difficulties in changing business processes or our third party vendors do not perform as expected, we may not realize, or not realize on a timely basis, the anticipated economic and other benefits of these relationships. This could result in substantial costs or regulatory compliance issues, divert management's attention from other strategic activities, negatively affect employee morale or create other operational or financial problems for us. Terminating or transitioning in whole or in part arrangements with key vendors could result in additional costs or penalties, risks of operational delays or potential errors and control issues during the termination or transition phase. We may not be able to find an alternative vendor in a timely manner or on acceptable terms. If there is an interruption in business or loss of access to data resulting from a termination or transition in services, we may not be able to meet the demands of our customers and, in turn, our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted.. Acquisitions, joint ventures and other transactions involve risks and we may not realize the expected benefits because of integration difficulties, underperformance relative to our expectations and other challenges.. As part of our growth strategy, we regularly consider and enter into strategic transactions, including mergers, acquisitions, joint ventures, licensing arrangements and other relationships (collectively referred to as \"transactions\"), with the expectation that these transactions will result in various benefits. Our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of these transactions is subject to numerous uncertainties and risks, including our ability to integrate operations, resources and systems, including data security systems, in an efficient and effective manner. We could also face challenges in implementing business plans; changes in laws and regulations or conditions imposed by regulations applicable to the business; retaining key employees; and general competitive factors in the marketplace. These events could result in increased costs, decreases in expected revenues, earnings or cash flow, and goodwill or other intangible asset impairment charges. Further, we may finance transactions by issuing common stock for some or all of the purchase price that could dilute the ownership interests of our shareholders, or by incurring additional debt that could impact our ability to access capital in the future.. In addition, effective internal controls are necessary to provide reliable and accurate financial reports and to mitigate the risk of fraud. The integration of businesses is likely to cause increasing complexity in our systems and internal controls and make them more difficult to manage. Any difficulties in assimilating businesses into our control system could cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. Ineffective internal controls also could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information that could negatively impact the trading price of our stock and our access to capital.. Our business depends on our ability to effectively invest in, implement improvements to and properly maintain the uninterrupted operation and data integrity of our information technology and other business systems.. Our business is highly dependent on maintaining effective information systems as well as the integrity and timeliness of the data we use to serve our customers and health care professionals and to operate our business. If our data were found to be inaccurate or unreliable due to fraud or other error, or if we, or any of the third-party service providers we engage, were to fail to maintain information systems and data integrity effectively, we could experience operational disruptions that may impact our clients, customers and health care professionals and hinder our ability to establish appropriate pricing for products and services, retain and attract clients and customers, establish reserves and report financial results timely and accurately and maintain regulatory compliance, among other things.. Our information technology strategy and execution are critical to our continued success. Increasing regulatory and legislative changes will place additional demands on our information technology infrastructure that could have a direct impact on resources available for other projects tied to our strategic initiatives. In addition, recent trends toward greater consumer engagement in health care require new and enhanced technologies, including more sophisticated applications for mobile devices. We must continue to invest in long-term solutions that will enable us to anticipate customer needs and expectations, enhance the customer experience, act as a differentiator in the market and protect against cybersecurity risks and threats. Our success is dependent, in large part, on maintaining the effectiveness of existing technology systems and continuing to deliver and enhance technology systems that support our business processes in a cost-efficient and resource-efficient manner. Connectivity among technologies is becoming increasingly important. The failure of our health care technologies to operate seamlessly with other products could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We must also develop new systems to meet current market standards and keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving industry and regulatory standards and customer needs. Failure to do so may present compliance challenges and impede our ability to deliver services in a competitive manner. Further, because system development projects are long-term in nature, they may be more costly than expected to complete and may not deliver the expected benefits upon completion.. In addition, our business is highly dependent upon our ability to perform, in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, necessary business functions, such as claims processing and payment, internet support and customer call centers, and processing new and renewal business. Unavailability, cyber-attack or other failure of one or more of our information technology or other systems could cause slower response times, resulting in claims not being processed as quickly as clients or customers desire, decreased levels of client or customer service and satisfaction, and harm to our reputation. Because our information technology and other systems interface with and depend on third-party systems, we could experience service denials if demand for such service exceeds capacity or a third-party system fails or experiences an interruption. If sustained or repeated, such business interruptions, systems failures or service denials could have material adverse effects on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. 24    CIGNA CORPORATION - 2017 Form 10-K. Back to Contents. PART I  ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. As a large health services company, we are subject to cyber-attacks or other privacy or data security incidents. If we are unable to prevent or contain the effects of any such attacks, we may suffer exposure to substantial liability, reputational harm, loss of revenue or other damages.. Our business depends on our clients' and customers' willingness to entrust us with their health-related and other sensitive personal information. Computer systems may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer viruses or malware, programming errors, attacks by third parties or similar disruptive problems. We have been, and will likely continue to be, the target of computer viruses or other malicious codes, unauthorized access, cyber-attacks or other computer-related penetrations. There have been large scale cyber-attacks within the health care industry. As we increase the amount of personal information that we store and share digitally, our exposure to data security and related cybersecurity risks increases, including the risk of undetected attacks, damage, loss or unauthorized access or misappropriation of proprietary or personal information, and the cost of attempting to protect against these risks also increases. We have implemented security technologies, processes and procedures to protect consumer identity and provide employee awareness training around phishing, malware and other cyber risks; however, there are no assurances that such measures will be effective against all types of breaches. The techniques used change frequently or are often not recognized until after they have been launched, because cyber-attacks can originate from a wide variety of sources including third parties such as external service providers. Those parties may also attempt to fraudulently induce employees, customers or other users of our systems to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our data or that of our customers. In addition, while we have certain standards for all vendors that provide us services, our vendors, and in turn, their own service providers, may become subject to the same type of security breaches. Finally, our offices may be vulnerable to security incidents or security attacks, acts of vandalism or theft, misplaced or lost data, human error or similar events that could negatively affect our systems and our customers' and clients' data.. The costs to eliminate or address security threats and vulnerabilities before or after a cyber-incident could be significant. Our remediation efforts may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, or cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers.. In addition, breaches of our security measures and the unauthorized dissemination of sensitive personal information or proprietary information or confidential information about us, our customers or other third-parties could expose our customers' private information and our customers to the risk of financial or medical identity theft. Unauthorized dissemination of confidential and proprietary information about our business and strategy also could negatively affect the achievement of our strategic initiatives. Such events would also negatively affect our ability to compete, others' trust in us, our reputation, customer base and revenues and expose us to mandatory disclosure (including to the media), litigation and other enforcement proceedings, material fines, penalties and/or remediation costs, and compensatory, special, punitive and statutory damages, consent orders and other adverse actions, any of which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.. Our pharmacy benefit management business and related operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that are in addition to those we face in our health care business.. Notwithstanding our arrangement with a third-party vendor for certain pharmacy benefit management services, we remain responsible to regulators and our clients and customers for the delivery of those pharmacy benefit management services that we contract to provide. Our pharmacy benefit management business is subject to federal and state regulation, including without limitation, federal and state anti-kickback laws, consumer protection laws, ERISA, HIPAA and laws related to the operation of Internet and mail-service pharmacies, as well as the laws and regulations of the foreign countries in which we conduct business. In addition, certain of our subsidiaries are pharmacies subject to state licensing and U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency registration requirements and state and federal laws concerning labeling, packaging, advertising, handling and adulteration of prescription drugs and dispensing of controlled substances. Noncompliance with applicable regulations by us or our third-party vendors could have material adverse effects on our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and reputation.. Our pharmacy benefit management business also would be adversely affected by an inability to contract on favorable terms with pharmaceutical manufacturers and we could suffer exposure to liabilities and reputational harm in connection with purported errors by mail order or retail pharmacy businesses.. In operating onsite clinics and other types of medical facilities, we may be subject to additional liability that could result in significant time and expense.. In addition to contracting with physicians and other health care providers for services, we employ physicians and other health care professionals at onsite low acuity and primary care clinics that we operate for our customers, as well as certain clinics for our employees. In addition, our Government business operates LivingWell health centers and we own and operate multispecialty health care centers, low acuity clinics and other types of centers in the Phoenix, Arizona metropolitan area that employ physicians and other health care professionals. As a direct employer of health care professionals and as an owner or operator of medical facilities, we are subject to liability for negligent acts, omissions, or injuries occurring at one of these clinics or caused by one of our employees. Even if any claims brought against us are unsuccessful or without merit, we still have to defend against such claims. The defense of any actions may result in significant expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and reputation.. Legal and Compliance Risks. Our business is subject to substantial government regulation, as well as new laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. Our business is regulated at the federal, state, local and international levels. The laws and rules governing our business and related interpretations, including, among others, those associated with the ACA, are increasing in number and complexity, are subject to frequent change and can be inconsistent or in conflict with each other. As a public company with global operations, we are subject to the laws of multiple. CIGNA CORPORATION - 2017 Form 10-K    25. Back to Contents. PART I  ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. jurisdictions and the rules and regulations of various governing bodies, such as those related to financial and other disclosures, corporate governance, privacy, data protection, labor and employment, consumer protection, tax and anti-corruption.. We must identify, assess and respond to new trends in the legislative and regulatory environment, as well as comply with the various existing regulations applicable to our business. Existing or future laws, rules, regulatory interpretations or judgments could force us to change how we conduct our business, affect the products we offer, restrict revenue and enrollment growth, increase our costs, including operating, health care technology and administrative costs, and require enhancements to our compliance infrastructure and internal controls environment. Existing or future laws and rules also could require us to take other actions such as changing our business practices, thereby increasing our liability in federal and state courts for coverage determinations, contract interpretation and other actions.. Several bills were introduced in Congress in 2017 to repeal and replace the ACA, though none have passed the House and Senate. Discussions on the ACA continue in Congress. Throughout 2017, President Trump took several steps to limit the utility of the ACA and continues to advocate for its repeal and replacement. The individual mandate was repealed effective January 1, 2019 as part of the U.S. tax reform legislation that was signed into law in December 2017. We are unable to predict how these events will ultimately be resolved and what the potential impact may be on the ACA, and in turn, on our business including, but not limited to, our products, services, processes and technology and on our relationships with current and future customers, producers, vendors and health care providers. Legal challenges regarding aspects of the ACA, such as litigation regarding the payment of risk corridor receivables and cost sharing reduction subsidies, have contributed to this uncertainty. In addition, state legislatures have and will continue to focus on health care issues, particularly in light of the various ACA amendments proposed by Congress and the Trump administration executive orders.. Further, failure to effectively implement or adjust our strategic and operational initiatives, such as by reducing operating costs, adjusting premium pricing or benefit design or transforming our business model in response to regulatory changes may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, including, but not limited to, our ability to maintain the value of our goodwill and other intangible assets.. Our insurance and HMO subsidiaries must be licensed by and are subject to the regulations of the jurisdictions in which they conduct business. For example, HMOs and insurance companies are regulated under specific state laws and regulations and indirectly affected by other health care-related laws and regulations. State regulations mandate minimum capital or restricted cash reserve requirements. In addition, state guaranty fund laws and related regulations subject us to assessments for certain obligations to policyholders and claimants of impaired or insolvent insurance companies. Some states have similar laws relating to HMOs and other payors, such as consumer operated and oriented plans (co-ops) established under the ACA. Any such assessment could expose us to the risk of paying a portion of an impaired or insolvent insurance company's claims through state guaranty association assessments. We also participate in the private exchange marketplace. Whether and the extent to which states may issue regulations that apply to private exchanges remains uncertain.. In addition to the regulations discussed above, we are required to obtain and maintain insurance and other regulatory approvals to market many of our products, increase prices for certain regulated products and consummate some of our acquisitions and dispositions. Delays in obtaining or failure to obtain or maintain these approvals could reduce our revenue or increase our costs.. The health care industry is also regularly subject to negative media attention, including as a result of the political environment and the ongoing debate concerning the ACA. Such publicity may adversely affect our stock price and reputation in certain markets.. For more information on regulation, see \"Business  -  Regulation\" in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K.. There are various risks associated with participating in government-sponsored programs, such as Medicare, including dependence upon government funding, compliance with government contracts and increased regulatory oversight.. Through our Government business, we contract with CMS and various state governmental agencies to provide managed health care services including Medicare Advantage plans and Medicare-approved prescription drug plans. Revenues from Medicare programs are dependent, in whole or in part, upon annual funding from the federal government through CMS and/or applicable state or local governments. Funding for these programs is dependent on many factors outside our control including general economic conditions, continuing government efforts to contain health care costs and budgetary constraints at the federal or applicable state or local level and general political issues and priorities. These entities generally have the right to not renew or cancel their contracts with us on short notice without cause or if funds are not available. Unanticipated changes in funding, such as the application of sequestration by the federal or state governments, could substantially reduce our revenues and profitability.. The Medicare program has been the subject of regulatory reform initiatives, including the ACA. The premium rates paid to Medicare Advantage plans and Medicare Part D plans are established by contract, although the rates differ depending on a combination of factors, many of which are outside our control. The ACA ties a portion of each Medicare Advantage plan's and Medicare Part D plan's reimbursement to the plan's \"Star Rating\" by CMS, with those plans receiving a rating of four or more stars eligible for quality-based bonus payments. The Star Rating system considers various measures adopted by CMS, including, for example, quality of care, preventative services, chronic illness management, coverage determination appeals and customer satisfaction. The Star Rating system is subject to change annually by CMS, which may make it more difficult to achieve four stars or greater. Our Medicare Advantage plans' and Medicare Part D plans' operating results, premium revenue and benefit offerings are likely to continue to be significantly determined by their Star Ratings. If we fail to meet our expectations regarding Star Ratings, are unsuccessful in maintaining or improving our Star Ratings, fail to meet or exceed our competitors' ratings, or if quality-bonus payments are eliminated, our financial performance may be adversely affected. See Part II, Item 7  -  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Information  -  Health Care Industry Developments and Other Matters Affecting our Global Health Care Segment for additional information on our Star Ratings.. Contracts with CMS and the various state governmental agencies contain certain provisions regarding data submission, provider network maintenance, provider directories, quality measures, claims payment, continuity of care, call center performance and other requirements. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we may be subject to administrative actions, fines or other penalties that could impact our profitability.. 26    CIGNA CORPORATION - 2017 Form 10-K. Back to Contents. PART I  ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. The ACA established health insurance exchanges for individuals and small employers. Insurers participating on the health insurance exchanges are required to offer a minimum level of benefits and comply with requirements with respect to premium rates and coverage limitations. Our participation in these exchanges involves uncertainties associated with mix and volume of business and could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. The executive order signed by President Trump in October 2017 that halted payment of the cost sharing reduction subsidies has created additional uncertainty regarding the future of public health insurance exchanges.. In addition, any failure to comply with various state and federal health care laws and regulations, including those directed at preventing fraud and abuse in government funded programs, could result in investigations or litigation, such as actions under the federal False Claims Act and similar whistleblower statutes under state laws. This could subject us to fines, penalties or other enforcement actions, restrictions on our ability to market or enroll new customers, limits on expansion, restrictions or exclusions from programs or other agreements with federal or state governmental agencies that could adversely impact our business, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and reputation.. In addition, our Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D businesses face a number of other risks including potential uncollectible receivables resulting from processing and/or verifying enrollment, inadequate underwriting assumptions, inability to receive and process correct information or increased medical or pharmaceutical costs. Actual results may be materially different than our assumptions and estimates regarding these complex and wide-ranging programs that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We face risks related to litigation, regulatory audits and investigations.. We are routinely involved in numerous claims, lawsuits, regulatory audits, investigations and other legal matters arising, for the most part, in the ordinary course of business, including that of administering and insuring employee benefit programs. These legal matters could include benefit claims, breach of contract actions, tort claims, claims arising from consumer protection laws, claims disputes under federal or state laws and disputes regarding reinsurance arrangements, employment and employment discrimination-related suits, antitrust claims, employee benefit claims, wage and hour claims, tax, privacy, intellectual property and whistle blower claims, shareholder suits and other securities law claims and real estate disputes. In addition, we have incurred and likely will continue to incur liability for practices and claims related to our health care business, such as marketing misconduct, failure to timely or appropriately pay for or provide health care, provider network structure, poor outcomes for care delivered or arranged, provider disputes including disputes over compensation or contractual provisions, and claims related to our administration of self-funded business. There are currently, and may be in the future, attempts to bring class action lawsuits against the company and the industry; individual plaintiffs also may bring multiple claims regarding the same subject matter against us and other companies in our industry.. With respect to our global operations, contractual rights, tax positions, laws and regulations may be subject to interpretation or uncertainty to a greater degree than in the United States, and therefore subject us to disputes by customers, governmental authorities or others. Foreign laws and rules and regulatory audit and investigative practices may differ from or be more stringent than, similar requirements in the United States.. Court decisions and legislative activity may increase our exposure for any of these types of claims. In some cases, substantial non-economic or punitive damages may be sought. We seek to procure insurance coverage to cover some of these potential liabilities. However, certain potential liabilities may not be covered by insurance, insurers may dispute coverage or the amount of insurance may be insufficient to cover the entire damages awarded. In addition, certain types of damages, such as punitive damages, may not be covered by insurance, and insurance coverage for all or certain forms of liability may become unavailable or prohibitively expensive in the future. It is possible that the resolution of current or future legal matters and claims could result in changes to our industry and business practices, losses material to our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity or damage to our reputation.. We are frequently the subject of regulatory market conduct and other reviews, audits and investigations by state insurance and health and welfare departments, attorneys general, CMS and the OIG and comparable authorities in foreign jurisdictions. With respect to our Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D businesses, CMS and OIG perform audits to determine a health plan's compliance with federal regulations and contractual obligations, including compliance with proper coding practices and fraud and abuse enforcement practices through audits designed to detect and correct improper payments. The Department of Justice is conducting an industry review of the risk adjustment data submission practices and business processes, including review of medical charts, of Medicare Advantage organizations under Medicare Parts C and D. There also continues to be heightened review by federal and state regulators of business and reporting practices within the health care, disability and life insurance industry, including with respect to claims payment and related escheat practices, and increased scrutiny by other state and federal governmental agencies (such as state attorneys general) empowered to bring criminal actions in circumstances that could have previously given rise only to civil or administrative proceedings. These regulatory audits or reviews or actions by other governmental agencies could result in changes to our business practices, retroactive adjustments to certain premiums, significant fines, penalties, civil liabilities, criminal liabilities or other sanctions, including restrictions on our ability to market certain products or engage in business-related activities, that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation, financial condition and liquidity. In addition, disclosure of an adverse investigation or audit or the imposition of fines or other sanctions could negatively affect our reputation in certain markets and make it more difficult for us to sell our products and services.. A description of material pending legal actions and other legal and regulatory matters is included in Note 21 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K. The outcome of litigation and other legal or regulatory matters is always uncertain.. If we fail to comply with applicable privacy, security and data laws, regulations and standards, our business and reputation could be materially and adversely affected.. The collection, maintenance, protection, use, transmission, disclosure and disposal of sensitive personal information are regulated at the federal, state, international and industry levels and requirements are imposed on us by contracts with clients. In some cases, such laws, rules, regulations and contractual requirements also apply to our vendors and require us to obtain written assurances of their compliance with such requirements or may hold us liable for any violations by our vendors. International laws, rules and regulations governing the use and disclosure of such information are generally more stringent than in the United States, and they vary across jurisdictions. We also are subject to various other consumer protection laws that regulate our communications with customers.. CIGNA CORPORATION - 2017 Form 10-K    27. Back to Contents. PART I  ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. These laws, rules, and contractual requirements are subject to change. Compliance with new privacy, security and data laws, regulations and requirements may result in increased operating costs, and may constrain or require us to alter our business model or operations. For example, the HITECH amendments to HIPAA may further restrict our ability to collect, disclose and use sensitive personal information and may impose additional compliance requirements on our business.. HIPAA requires covered entities to comply with the HIPAA privacy, security and breach rules. In addition, business associates must comply with the HIPAA security and breach requirements. While we provide for appropriate protections through our contracts with our third-party service providers and in certain cases assess their security controls, we have limited oversight or control over their actions and practices. Several of our businesses act as business associates to their covered entity customers and, as a result, collect, use, disclose and maintain sensitive personal information in order to provide services to these customers. HHS has continued its audit program to assess HIPAA compliance efforts by covered entities and has expanded it to include business associates. In addition, HHS has increased its enforcement efforts. These efforts result in enforcement actions that are the result of investigations brought on by the notification to HHS of a breach. An audit resulting in findings or allegations of noncompliance or the implementation of an enforcement action could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, cash flows and reputation.. Effective prevention, detection and control systems are critical to maintain regulatory compliance and prevent fraud and failure of these systems could adversely affect us.. Federal and state governments have made investigating and prosecuting health care and other insurance fraud and abuse a priority. Fraud and abuse prohibitions encompass a wide range of activities including kickbacks for referral of customers, billing for unnecessary medical services, improper marketing and violations of patient privacy rights. The regulations and contractual requirements applicable to us are complex and subject to change. In addition, ongoing vigorous law enforcement, a highly technical regulatory scheme and the Dodd-Frank Act legislation and related regulations enhance regulators' enforcement powers and whistleblower incentives and protections. Our compliance efforts in this area will continue to require significant resources. Failure of our prevention, detection or control systems related to regulatory compliance or the failure of employees to comply with our internal policies including data systems security or unethical conduct by managers and employees, could adversely affect our reputation and also expose us to litigation and other proceedings, fines and penalties.. In addition, provider or customer fraud that is not prevented or detected could impact our medical costs or those of our self-insured clients. Further, during an economic downturn, we may experience increased fraudulent claims volume that may lead to additional costs due to an increase in disputed claims and litigation.. Economic Risks. Significant stock market or interest rate declines could result in additional unfunded pension obligations resulting in the need for additional plan funding by us and increased pension expenses.. We currently have unfunded obligations in our frozen pension plans. A significant decline in the value of the plans' equity and fixed income investments or unfavorable changes in applicable laws or regulations could materially increase our expenses and change the timing and amount of required plan funding. This could reduce the cash available to us, including our subsidiaries. We also are exposed to interest rate and equity risk associated with our pension and other post-retirement obligations. Sustained declines in interest rates could have an adverse impact on the funded status of our pension plans and our reinvestment yield on new investments. See Note 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on our obligations under the pension plan.. Significant changes in market interest rates affect the value of our financial instruments that promise a fixed return or benefit and the value of particular assets and liabilities.. As an insurer, we have substantial investment assets that support insurance and contractholder deposit liabilities. Generally low levels of interest rates on investments, such as those experienced in U.S. and foreign financial markets during recent years, have negatively impacted our level of investment income earned in recent periods.. A substantial portion of our investment assets are in fixed interest-yielding debt securities of varying maturities, fixed redeemable preferred securities and commercial mortgage loans. The value of these investment assets can fluctuate significantly with changes in market conditions. A rise in interest rates would likely reduce the value of our investment portfolio and increase interest expense if we were to access our available lines of credit.. A downgrade in the financial strength ratings of our insurance subsidiaries could adversely affect new sales and retention of current business, and a downgrade in our debt ratings would increase the cost of borrowed funds and could negatively affect our ability to access capital.. Financial strength, claims paying ability and debt ratings by recognized rating organizations are each important factors in establishing the competitive position of insurance and health benefits companies. Ratings information by nationally recognized ratings agencies is broadly disseminated and generally used throughout the industry. We believe that the claims paying ability and financial strength ratings of our principal insurance subsidiaries are important factors in marketing our products to certain customers. Our debt ratings impact both the cost and availability of future borrowings and, accordingly, our cost of capital. Each of the rating agencies reviews ratings periodically and there can be no assurance that current ratings will be maintained in the future. A downgrade of these ratings in the future could make it more difficult to either market our products successfully or raise capital to support business growth within our insurance subsidiaries.. 28    CIGNA CORPORATION - 2017 Form 10-K. Back to Contents. PART I  ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. Global market, economic and geopolitical conditions may cause fluctuations in equity market prices, interest rates and credit spreads that could impact our ability to raise or deploy capital and affect our overall liquidity.. If the equity and credit markets experience extreme volatility and disruption, there could be downward pressure on stock prices and access to capital for certain issuers without regard to those issuers' underlying financial strength. Extreme disruption in the credit markets could adversely impact our availability and cost of capital in the future.. As of December 31, 2017, our outstanding long-term debt totaled $5.2 billion. In the event of adverse economic and industry conditions, we may be required to dedicate a greater percentage of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, thereby reducing the funds we have available for other purposes, such as investments and other expenditures in ongoing businesses, acquisitions, dividends and stock repurchases. In these circumstances, our ability to execute our strategy may be limited, our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in business and market conditions may be reduced, or our access to capital markets may be limited such that additional capital may not be available or may be available only on unfavorable terms.. Unfavorable developments in economic conditions may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Many factors, including geopolitical issues, future economic downturns, availability and cost of credit and other capital and consumer spending can negatively impact the U.S. and global economies. Our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by the impact of unfavorable economic conditions on our customers (both employers and individuals), health care providers and third-party vendors. For example:. <U+0095> Employers may take action to reduce their operating costs by modifying, delaying or canceling plans to purchase our products or making changes in the mix of products purchased that are unfavorable to us.    <U+0095> Higher unemployment rates and workforce reductions could result in lower enrollment in our employer-based plans (including an increase in the number of employees who opt out of employer-based plans) or our individual plans.    <U+0095> Because of unfavorable economic conditions or the ACA, employers may stop offering health care coverage to employees or elect to offer this coverage on a voluntary, employee-funded basis as a means to reduce their operating costs.    <U+0095> Our historical disability claim experience and industry data indicate that submitted disability claims rise under adverse economic conditions.     <U+0095> If customers are not successful in generating sufficient funds or are precluded from securing financing, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, accounts receivable that are owed to us.    <U+0095> Our customers or potential customers may force us to compete more vigorously on factors such as price and service to retain or obtain their business.    <U+0095> A prolonged unfavorable economic environment could adversely impact the financial position of hospitals and other health care providers, potentially increasing our medical costs as these providers attempt to maintain revenue levels in their efforts to adjust to their own economic challenges.    <U+0095> Our third-party vendors could significantly and quickly increase their prices or reduce their output to reduce their operating costs. Our business depends on our ability to perform necessary business functions in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion.. These factors could lead to a decrease in our customer base, revenues or margins and/or an increase in our operating costs.. In addition, during a prolonged unfavorable economic environment, state and federal budgets could be materially and adversely affected, resulting in reduced or delayed reimbursements or payments in state and federal government programs such as Medicare and Social Security. These state and federal budgetary pressures also could cause the government to impose new or a higher level of taxes or assessments on us, such as premium taxes on insurance companies and HMOs and surcharges or fees on select fee-for-service and capitated medical claims. Although we could attempt to mitigate or cover our exposure from such increased costs through, among other things, increases in premiums, there can be no assurance that we will be able to mitigate or cover all of such costs, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. We are subject to the credit risk of our reinsurers.. We enter into reinsurance arrangements with other insurance companies, primarily to limit losses from large exposures or to permit recovery of a portion of direct losses. We also may enter into reinsurance arrangements in connection with acquisition or divestiture transactions when the underwriting company is not being acquired or sold.. Under all reinsurance arrangements, reinsurers assume insured losses, subject to certain limitations or exceptions that may include a loss limit. These arrangements also subject us to various obligations, representations and warranties with the reinsurers. Reinsurance does not relieve us of liability as the originating insurer. We remain liable to the underlying policyholders if a reinsurer defaults on obligations under the reinsurance arrangement. Although we regularly evaluate the financial condition of reinsurers to minimize exposure to significant losses from reinsurer insolvencies, reinsurers may become financially unsound. If a reinsurer fails to meet its obligations under the reinsurance contract or if the liabilities exceed any applicable loss limit, we will be forced to cover the claims on the reinsured policies.. The collectability of amounts due from reinsurers is subject to uncertainty arising from a number of factors, including whether the insured losses meet the qualifying conditions of the reinsurance contract, whether reinsurers or their affiliates have the financial capacity and willingness to make payments under the terms of the reinsurance contract, and the magnitude and type of collateral supporting our reinsurance recoverable, such as holding sufficient qualifying assets in trusts or letters of credit issued. Although a portion of our reinsurance exposures are secured, the inability to collect a material recovery from a reinsurer could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. CIGNA CORPORATION - 2017 Form 10-K    29. Table of Contents"
