[1] "Item 1A.     Risk Factors. An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. Investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. Our business, prospects, financial condition or operating results could be harmed by any of these risks, as well as other risks not currently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial. The trading price of our securities could decline due to any of these risks, and, as a result, investors may lose all or part of their investment. As used in the risks described in this subsection, references to “we,” “us” and “our” are intended to refer to Cision unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.. Risks related to our business. Our industry is highly competitive.. We face intense competition from numerous large and small businesses. This competition includes both product and price competition. Increased competition may result in a decline in our market share thereby adversely affecting our operating results. The markets in which we operate are fragmented, competitive and rapidly evolving, and there are limited barriers to entry to certain segments of those markets. We expect the intensity of competition to increase in the future as existing competitors develop their capabilities and as new companies enter our markets. If we are unable to compete effectively, it will be difficult for us to maintain our market share and pricing rates and add and retain customers, and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be seriously harmed.. Increased competition could result in pricing pressure, reduced sales or lower margins. We face intense price competition in all areas of our business. In particular, the cloud-based PR services business, the media intelligence business and the media distribution business are characterized by intense price competition. Our profit margin, and therefore our profitability, is dependent on the rates we are able to charge for our services. We have in the past lowered prices, and may need to do so in the future, to attempt to gain or maintain market share. These strategies have not always been successful and have at times hurt operating performance. Additionally, we have also been, and may once again be, required to adjust pricing to respond to actions by competitors, which could adversely impact operating results. The rates we are able to charge for our services are affected by a number of factors, including competition, volume fluctuations, productivity of employees and processes, the value our customers derive from our services and general economic and political conditions. We are also subject to potential price competition from new competitors and from existing competitors. If we are unable to compete successfully in respect to the pricing of our services and products, our business, financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected.. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards or customer requirements or devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products and services than we can. To the extent our competitors have an existing relationship with a potential customer, that customer may be unwilling to switch vendors due to existing time and financial commitments with our competitors.. We also expect that new competitors will enter the cloud-based PR services and distribution market with competing products. Many of these potential competitors have established or may establish business, financial or strategic relationships among themselves or with existing or potential customers, alliance partners or other third parties or may combine and consolidate to become more formidable competitors with better resources. It is possible that these new competitors could rapidly acquire significant market share.. If we are unable to compete successfully in this environment, our business, financial condition and operating results will be adversely affected.. Economic conditions and market factors, which are beyond our control, may adversely affect our business and financial condition.. Our business performance is impacted by a number of factors, including economic and market volatility, changes in PR and marketing spending patterns, budgets and priorities, general economic conditions in North America, Latin America, Europe, the Middle East and Asia, and other factors that are generally beyond our control. To the extent that global or national economic conditions weaken, our business is likely to be negatively impacted. Adverse market conditions could reduce customer demand for our services and the ability of our customers, suppliers and other counterparties to meet their obligations to us. A reduction in customer demand for our products and services due to economic conditions or other market factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. 15. System limitations or failures could harm our business.. Our businesses depend on the integrity and performance of the technology, computer, cloud and communications systems supporting them. We manage our services and serve our customers from a limited number of data center facilities and/or cloud computing services facilities located within the United States and abroad. If the systems on which we depend cannot expand to cope with increased demand or otherwise fail to perform, we could experience unanticipated disruptions in service, slower response times and delays in the introduction of new products and services. These systems may be vulnerable to damage or service interruption resulting from human error, intentional bad acts, cybersecurity attacks, earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, war, terrorist attacks, power losses, hardware failures, systems failures, telecommunications failures and similar events. Given our position in the global PR and media intelligence industry, we may be more likely than other companies to be a direct target, or an indirect casualty, of such events.. These consequences could result in service outages, financial losses, decreased customer service and satisfaction and regulatory sanctions. The solutions we provide are susceptible to telecommunication system failures, data corruption or virus attacks, and they have experienced systems failures and delays in the past and could experience future systems failures and delays. We have, for example, experienced temporary system outages and service degradation related to telecommunication, cloud computing and network provider interruptions, denial-of-service attacks and equipment failures. Although we currently maintain and expect to maintain multiple computer facilities that are designed to provide redundancy and back-up to reduce the risk of system disruptions and have facilities in place that are expected to maintain service during a system disruption, such systems and facilities may prove inadequate. If unanticipated events occur, we may need to expand and upgrade our technology, transaction processing systems and network infrastructure. We do not know whether we will be able to accurately project the rate, timing or cost of any increases, or expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate any increases in a timely manner.. While we have programs in place to identify and minimize our exposure to vulnerabilities and work in collaboration with the technology industry to share corrective measures with our business partners, we cannot guarantee that such events will not occur in the future. Any system issue that causes an interruption in services, decreases the responsiveness of our services or otherwise affects our services could impair our reputation, damage our brand name, result in regulatory penalties and other liability, and negatively impact our business, financial condition and operating results.. To the extent that any of our vendors or other third-party service providers experience difficulties, materially change their business relationship with us or are unable for any reason to perform their obligations, our business or our reputation may be materially adversely affected.. We must continue to introduce new products, initiatives and enhancements to maintain our competitive position.. The PR software and media intelligence industries are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry and regulatory standards, new product and service introductions, frequent enhancements to existing products and services, the emergence of competitors, the adoption of new services and products and changing customer demands, needs and preferences. We must complete development of, successfully implement and maintain platforms that have the functionality, performance, capacity, reliability and speed required by our business, as well as by our customers. While we intend to launch new products and initiatives and continue to explore and pursue opportunities to strengthen our business and grow our company, we may not be able to keep up with rapid technological and other competitive changes affecting our industry. For example, we must continue to enhance our platforms to remain competitive, and our business will be negatively affected if our platforms or the technology solutions we sell to our customers fail to function as expected. If we are unable to develop our platforms to include other products and markets, or if our platforms do not have the required functionality, performance, capacity, reliability and speed required by our customers, we may not be able to compete successfully. We may spend substantial time and money developing new products and initiatives. If these products and initiatives are not successful, we may not be able to offset their costs, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Further, our failure to anticipate or respond adequately to changes in technology and customer preferences or any significant delays in product development efforts, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. In our technology operations, we have invested substantial amounts in the development of system platforms and in the rollout of our platforms. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we spent $22.1 million on research and development activities and $15.0 million in capitalized software development costs, and such figures may increase in the future as we strive to develop new products and solutions for our customers. Although investments are carefully planned, there can be no assurance that the demand for such platforms will justify the related investments and that the future levels of transactions executed on these platforms will be sufficient to generate an acceptable return on such investments. We also cannot guarantee that we will be able to compete effectively with new vendors, or that products, services or technologies developed by others will not render our services non-competitive or obsolete. If we fail to generate adequate revenue from planned system platforms or new products or services, or if we fail to do so within the envisioned timeframe, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, customers may delay purchases in anticipation of new products or enhancements.. 16. Our credit facilities contain restrictive covenants that may restrict our ability to take certain actions or capitalize on business opportunities.. Our credit facilities contain operating covenants and financial covenants that may limit management’s discretion with respect to certain business matters. Among other things, these covenants will restrict our ability to incur additional debt, pay dividends, redeem stock, change the nature of our business, sell or otherwise dispose of assets, make acquisitions or investments, and merge or consolidate with other entities. As a result of these covenants and restrictions, we will be limited in how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or other financing to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. In addition, our credit facilities contain covenants that require us to comply with a number of financial ratios, the breach of which could trigger a default that could, in turn, trigger defaults under other debt obligations. The terms of any future indebtedness we may incur could include more restrictive covenants. Failure to comply with such restrictive covenants may lead to default and acceleration under our credit facilities and may impair our ability to conduct business. We may not be able to maintain compliance with these covenants in the future and, if we fail to do so, we may be unable to obtain waivers from the lenders and/or amend the covenants. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources” for a description of our credit facilities.. We will need to invest in our operations to maintain and grow our business and to consummate and integrate acquisitions, and we may need additional funds, which may not be readily available.. We depend on the availability of adequate capital to maintain and develop our business. Although we believe that we can meet our current capital requirements from internally generated funds, cash on hand and available borrowings under our revolving credit facility, we may finance future acquisitions by issuing additional equity and/or debt, and if the capital and credit markets experience volatility, access to capital or credit may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. Limited access to capital or credit in the future could have an impact on our ability to refinance debt, maintain our credit rating, meet our regulatory capital requirements, engage in strategic initiatives, make acquisitions or strategic investments in other companies or react to changing economic and business conditions. If we are unable to fund our capital or credit requirements, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. In addition to our debt obligations, we will need to continue to invest in our operations for the foreseeable future to integrate acquired businesses and to fund new initiatives. If we do not achieve the expected operating results, we will need to reallocate our cash resources. This may include borrowing additional funds to service debt payments, which may impair our ability to make investments in our business or to integrate acquired businesses.. Should we need to raise funds by issuing additional equity, our equity holders will suffer dilution. In addition, announcement or implementation of future transactions by us or others could have a material effect on the price of our equity. Should we need to raise funds by incurring additional debt, we may become subject to covenants even more restrictive than those contained in our credit facilities and our other debt instruments. The issuance of additional debt could increase our leverage substantially. We could face financial risks associated with incurring additional debt, particularly if the debt results in significant incremental leverage. Additional debt may reduce our liquidity, curtail our access to financing markets, impact our standing with credit agencies and increase the cash flow required for debt service. Any incremental debt incurred to finance an acquisition could also place significant constraints on the operation of our business. Furthermore, if adverse economic conditions occur, we could experience decreased revenues from our operations which could affect our ability to satisfy financial and other restrictive covenants to which we are subject under our existing indebtedness.. We may not be able to successfully integrate acquired businesses, which may result in an inability to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions and anticipated cost savings.. We must rationalize, coordinate and integrate the operations of our acquired businesses and other acquisitions we make in the future. This process involves complex technological, operational and personnel-related challenges, which are time-consuming and expensive and may disrupt our business. The difficulties, costs and delays that could be encountered may include:. •difficulties, costs or complications in combining the companies’ operations, including technology platforms, which could lead to us not achieving the synergies we anticipate or to customers not renewing their contracts with us as we integrate platforms;. •inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies as we attempt to integrate the acquired businesses;. 17. •difficulty streamlining operations or eliminating redundancies, resulting in the failure to achieve expected cost savings;. •incompatibility of systems and operating methods;. •reliance on a deal partner for transition services, including billing services;. •inability to use capital assets efficiently to develop the business of the combined company;. •difficulties of complying with government-imposed regulations in the United States and abroad, which may be conflicting;. •resolving possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures;. •the diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns and other strategic opportunities;. •difficulties in operating acquired businesses in parallel with similar businesses that we operated previously;. •difficulties in operating businesses we have not operated before;. •difficulties of integrating multiple acquired businesses simultaneously;. •the retention of key employees and management, including key management of the companies that we acquire;. •the implementation of disclosure controls, internal controls and financial reporting systems at non-U.S. subsidiaries to enable us to comply with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (“U.S. GAAP”);. •the coordination of geographically separate organizations;. •the coordination and consolidation of ongoing and future research and development efforts;. •possible tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating the operations of a combined company;. •pre-tax restructuring and revenue investment costs;. •the retention of strategic partners and attracting new strategic partners; and. •negative impacts on employee morale and performance as a result of job changes, reassignments and reductions in force.. For these reasons, we may not achieve the anticipated financial and strategic benefits from our acquisitions. Actual cost savings and synergies may be lower than we expect and may take a longer time to achieve than we anticipate, and we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions.. A material breach in security relating to our information systems and regulation related to such breaches could adversely affect us.. Information security risks have generally increased in recent years, in part because of the proliferation of new technologies and the use of the Internet, and the increased sophistication and activity of organized crime, hackers, terrorists, activists, cybercriminals and other external parties, some of which may be linked to terrorist organizations or hostile foreign governments. For example, a cybercriminal could use cybersecurity threats to gain access to sensitive information about another company or to alter or disrupt news or information to be distributed by PR Newswire. Cybersecurity attacks are becoming more sophisticated and include malicious software, ransomware, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data, substantially damaging our reputation. Any person who circumvents our security measures could steal proprietary or confidential customer information or cause interruptions in our operations. We incur significant costs to protect against security breaches, and may incur significant additional costs to alleviate problems caused by any breaches. Our failure to prevent security breaches, or well-publicized security breaches affecting the Internet in general, could significantly harm our reputation and business and financial results.. Certain laws and regulations regarding data security affecting our customers impose requirements regarding the security of information maintained by these customers, as well as notification to persons whose personal information is accessed by an unauthorized third party. Certain laws may also require us to protect the security of our employees’ personal data. As a result of any continuing legislative initiatives and customer demands, we may have to modify our operations with the goal of further improving data security. The cost of compliance with these laws and regulations is high and is likely to increase in the future. Any such modifications may result in increased expenses and operating complexity, and we may be unable to increase the rates we charge for our services sufficiently to offset these increases. Any failure on our part to comply with these laws, regulations and standards can result in negative publicity and diversion of management time and effort and may subject us to significant liabilities and other penalties.. If customer confidential information, including material non-public information or personal data we maintain, is inappropriately disclosed due to an information security breach, or if any person, including any of our employees, negligently disregards or intentionally breaches controls or procedures with which we are responsible for complying with respect to such data or otherwise mismanages or misappropriates that data, we may have substantial liabilities to our clients. Any incidents with respect to the handling of such information could subject us to litigation or indemnification claims with our clients and other parties. In addition, any breach or alleged breach of our confidentiality agreements with our clients may result in termination of their engagements, resulting in associated loss of revenue and increased costs.. 18. Our business relies on continued access to content on similar terms.. Our business relies on continuous access to content, which is increasingly generated digitally or via social media. If content providers interrupt continuous access, impose onerous terms for accessing content, refuse to do business with us or move their content behind digital paywalls without providing access to us, our future financial performance may be adversely affected. Such changes may have a material and adverse impact on our revenue, business, financial condition, operations and could have an adverse effect on our future financial performance or position. We rely on third parties to license their technology and provide or make available certain data and other content for our information databases, our news monitoring service and our social media monitoring service.. Losing access to licensed technology and content, such as broadcast content, news outlets and social media platforms, could result in delays in the provision of our services until we develop, identify, license and integrate equivalent technology or content. These third parties may not renew agreements to provide licenses to us, or may increase the price they charge for their licenses.. Additionally, the quality of the technology content provided to us may not be acceptable to us and we may need to enter into agreements with additional third parties. Third-party licenses may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable or competitive terms, if at all. Any interruption or delay in the provision of our services could adversely affect our financial performance and ability to grow revenue, damage our business and adversely affect our results of operations by forcing customers to seek out other suppliers that can provide access to their desired licensed content. In the event we are unable to use such third-party technology or content or are unable to enter into agreements with third parties, we may not be successful in maintaining relationships with key customers and current customers may not renew their subscription agreements with us or continue purchasing solutions from us, and it may be difficult to acquire new customers which may have a material and adverse impact on our revenue, business, and could have an adverse effect on our future financial performance or position.. We rely on third parties to perform certain functions, and our business could be adversely affected if these third parties fail to perform as expected. We rely on third parties for regulatory, data center, data storage, data content, clearing and other services. To the extent that any of our vendors or other third-party service providers experience difficulties, materially change their business relationship with us or is unable for any reason to perform their obligations, our business, reputation or our financial results may be materially adversely affected.. Damage to our reputation or brand name could have a material adverse effect on our businesses.. One of our competitive strengths is our strong reputation and brand name. We believe that developing and maintaining awareness of our brands and avoiding damage to our reputation is critical to our business. Successful promotion of our brands will depend largely on our ability to provide reliable and useful products and solutions. Various other issues may give rise to reputational risk, including issues relating to:. •our ability to maintain the security of our data and systems;. •the quality and reliability of our technology platforms and systems;. •the ability to fulfill our regulatory obligations;. •the ability to execute our business plan, key initiatives or new business ventures;. •the ability to keep up with changing customer demand;. •the representation of our business in the media;. •the accuracy of our financial statements and other financial and statistical information;. •the accuracy of our financial guidance or other information provided to our investors;. •the quality of our corporate governance structure;. •the quality of our products and services;. •the quality of our disclosure controls or internal controls over financial reporting, including any failures in supervision;. •extreme price volatility on our markets;. •any negative publicity surrounding our customers; and. •any misconduct, fraudulent activity or theft by our employees or other persons formerly or currently associated with us.. 19. If we fail to successfully promote and maintain our brands and protect our reputation, or if we incur substantial expenses in an unsuccessful attempt to promote and maintain our brands, we may fail to attract new customers or retain our existing customers to the extent necessary to realize a sufficient return on our brand-building and brand-maintaining efforts, and our business could suffer.. We may be required to recognize impairments of our goodwill, intangible assets or other long-lived assets in the future.. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, we account for the completion of our acquisitions using the acquisition method of accounting. We allocate the total estimated purchase prices to net tangible assets, amortizable intangible assets and indefinite-lived intangible assets, and based on their fair values as of the date of completion of the acquisitions, recording the excess of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill. Our financial results, including earnings per share, could be adversely affected by a number of financial adjustments required by U.S. GAAP. For example, we may have additional depreciation expense as a result of recording acquired tangible assets at fair value as compared to book value as recorded, or we may incur certain adjustments to reflect the financial condition and operating results under U.S. GAAP and in U.S. dollars.. Our business acquisitions typically result in the recording of goodwill and intangible assets, and the recorded values of those assets may become impaired in the future. As of December 31, 2017, goodwill totaled $1,136.4 million and other intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, totaled $456.3 million. The determination of the value of such goodwill and intangible assets requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect our consolidated financial statements.. We assess goodwill and intangible assets, as well as other long-lived assets, including equity and cost method investments, and property and equipment for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if indicators of impairment arise. We estimate the fair value of such assets by assessing many factors, including historical performance, capital requirements and projected cash flows. Considerable management judgment is necessary to project future cash flows and evaluate the impact of expected operating and macroeconomic changes on these cash flows. Although the estimates and assumptions we use are consistent with our internal planning process, there are inherent uncertainties in these estimates.. In addition, we may experience future events that may result in asset impairments. Future disruptions to our business, prolonged economic weakness or significant declines in operating results at any of our reporting units or businesses may result in impairment charges to goodwill, intangible assets or other long-lived assets. A significant impairment charge in the future could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.. We may experience fluctuations in our operating results, which may adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares.. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, fluctuations in our quarterly revenues and results of operations. For example, we experience fluctuations in our revenue and earnings as we integrate new acquisitions and based on the seasonal impact of corporate reporting. This and other factors may contribute to fluctuations in our results of operations from quarter to quarter. A high percentage of our operating expenses, particularly personnel and rent, are relatively fixed in advance of any particular quarter. As a result, unanticipated variations in our operating results may cause us to run our operations inefficiently over a period of time, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. We are the subject of continuing litigation and governmental inquiries.. We are subject to various legal proceedings, governmental inquiries and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business and otherwise.. Any claims asserted against us, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, could harm our reputation and have an adverse impact on our reputation, brand and relationships with our customers and other third parties and could lead to additional related claims. Certain claims may seek injunctive relief and regulators, as part of settlements or otherwise, may seek to modify our products or services, which could disrupt the ordinary conduct of our business and operations, reduce our revenues or increase our cost of doing business. Any response to any such litigation or governmental investigation or claim may cause us to incur significant legal expenses. Substantial recovery against us or fines or penalties could have a material adverse impact on us, and unfavorable rulings, findings or recoveries in the other proceedings could have a material adverse impact on the operating results of the period in which the ruling or recovery occurs. See “Business — Legal Proceedings.”. 20. Insurance may be insufficient to cover our liabilities.. Although we maintain global general liability insurance, including coverage for errors and omissions and employment practices, this coverage may be inadequate, or may not be available in the future on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that these policies will cover any claim against us for loss of data or other indirect or consequential damages and defending a suit, regardless of its merit, could be costly and divert management’s attention.. Failure to protect our intellectual property rights could harm our brand-building efforts and ability to compete effectively.. To protect our intellectual property rights, we rely on a combination of trademark laws, copyright laws, patent laws, trade secret protection, confidentiality agreements and other contractual arrangements with our employees, affiliates, clients, strategic partners and others. The protective steps that we take may be inadequate to deter misappropriation of our proprietary information. Third parties may challenge, circumvent, infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property, or such intellectual property may not be sufficient to permit us to take advantage of current market trends or otherwise to provide competitive advantages, which could result in costly redesign efforts, discontinuance of service offerings or other competitive harm. For example, competitors may try to use brand names confusingly similar to ours for similar services in order to benefit from our brand’s value. Others, including our competitors, may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our services or design around our intellectual property and, in such cases, we could not assert our intellectual property rights against such parties. Further, our contractual arrangements may not effectively prevent disclosure of our confidential information or provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of our confidential information, and we may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights.. We have registered, or applied to register, our trademarks in the United States and in over 25 foreign jurisdictions. We also maintain copyright protection on our tangible materials and pursue patent protection for software products, inventions and other processes developed by us. We also hold a number of patents, patent applications and licenses in the United States and other foreign jurisdictions. Moreover, we cannot guarantee that any of our pending patent applications will issue or be approved, and that our existing and future intellectual property rights will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology and proprietary information or provide us with any competitive advantages. The United States Patent and Trademark Office, or the USPTO, and various foreign governmental patent agencies require compliance with a number of procedural, documentary, fee payment and other similar provisions during the patent application process and after a patent has issued. There are situations in which noncompliance can result in abandonment or lapse of the patent or patent application, resulting in partial or complete loss of patent rights in the relevant jurisdiction. If this occurs, our competitors might be able to enter the market, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. Effective trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which we offer our services. In addition, many countries limit the enforceability of patents against third parties, including government agencies or government contractors. In these countries, patents may provide limited or no benefit. Further, intellectual property law, including statutory and case law, particularly in the United States, is constantly developing, and any changes in the law could make it harder for us to enforce our rights. Failure to protect our intellectual property adequately could harm our brand and affect our ability to compete effectively. Further, we may not always detect infringement of our intellectual property rights, and defending our intellectual property rights, even if successfully detected, prosecuted, enjoined, or remedied, could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. An adverse determination of any litigation or defense proceedings could put our intellectual property at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and could put our related pending patent applications at risk of not issuing. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential or sensitive information could be compromised by disclosure in the event of litigation. In addition, during the course of litigation there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the price of our common stock.. Moreover, a significant portion of our intellectual property has been acquired from one or more third parties. While we have conducted diligence with respect to such acquisitions, because we did not participate in the development or prosecution of much of the acquired intellectual property, we cannot guarantee that our diligence efforts identified and/or remedied all issues related to such intellectual property, including potential ownership errors, potential errors during prosecution of such intellectual property, and potential encumbrances that could limit our ability to enforce such intellectual property rights.. 21. Third parties may assert intellectual property rights claims against us, which may be costly to defend, could require the payment of damages and could limit our ability to use certain technologies, trademarks or other intellectual property.. We may be subject to costly litigation if our services and technology are alleged to infringe upon or otherwise violate a third party’s proprietary rights. Third parties may have, or may eventually be issued, patents that could be infringed by our products, services or technology. Because patent applications can take years to issue and are often afforded confidentiality for some period of time there may currently be pending applications, unknown to us, that later result in issued patents that could cover one or more of our products. Any of these third parties could make a claim of infringement against us with respect to our products, services or technology. We may also be obligated to indemnify our customers or business partners or pay substantial settlement costs, including royalty payments, in connection with any such claim or litigation and to obtain licenses, modify applications or refund fees, which could be costly. We have been and may also be in the future subject to claims by third parties for patent, copyright or trademark infringement, breach of license or violation of other third-party intellectual property rights.. Any intellectual property claims, with or without merit, could be expensive to litigate or settle and could divert management resources and attention. In a patent infringement claim against us, we may assert, as a defense, that we do not infringe the relevant patent claims, that the patent is invalid or both. The strength of our defenses will depend on the patents asserted, the interpretation of these patents, and our ability to invalidate the asserted patents. However, we could be unsuccessful in advancing non-infringement and/or invalidity arguments in our defense. In the United States, issued patents enjoy a presumption of validity, and the party challenging the validity of a patent claim must present clear and convincing evidence of invalidity, which is a high burden of proof. Conversely, the patent owner need only prove infringement by a preponderance of the evidence, which is a lower burden of proof. Successful challenges against us could require us to modify or discontinue our use of technology or business processes where such use is found to infringe or violate the rights of others, enter into costly settlement or license agreements, pay costly damage awards, face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from marketing or selling certain of our products or services or purchase licenses from third parties, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Additionally, in recent years, individuals and groups have been purchasing intellectual property assets for the sole purpose of making claims of infringement or other violations and attempting to extract settlements from companies like ours. Even if we have an agreement for indemnification against costs associated with litigation, the indemnifying party, if any in such circumstances, may be unable to uphold its contractual obligations. If we cannot or do not license the infringed technology on reasonable terms or substitute similar technology from another source, our revenue and earnings could be adversely impacted.. Moreover, our intellectual property acquired from one or more third parties may have previously been the subject of one or more intellectual property infringement suits and/or allegations. While we have conducted diligence with respect to such acquisitions, we cannot guarantee that our diligence efforts identified and/or remedied all issues related to such intellectual property infringement suits and/or allegations. Moreover, we cannot guarantee that we understand and/or have complied with all obligations related to the settlement of such intellectual property suits and/or the resolution of such intellectual property allegations.. Future acquisitions, investments, partnerships and joint ventures may require significant resources and/or result in significant unanticipated losses, costs or liabilities.. Over the past several years, acquisitions have been significant factors in our growth. Although we cannot predict our rate of growth as the result of acquisitions with complete accuracy, we believe that additional acquisitions and investments or entering into partnerships and joint ventures will be important to our growth strategy. Such transactions may be material in size and scope. There can be no assurances that we will be able to complete suitable acquisitions for a variety of reasons, including the identification of and competition for acquisition targets, the need for regulatory approvals, the inability of the parties to agree to the structure or purchase price of the transaction, competition from competitors interested in making similar acquisitions and our inability to finance the transaction on commercially acceptable terms. Therefore, we cannot be sure that we will be able to complete future transactions on terms favorable to us.. Furthermore, any future acquisitions or investments in businesses or facilities could entail a number of additional risks, including:. •problems with effective integration of operations;. •the inability to maintain key pre-acquisition business relationships;. •increased operating costs;. •the diversion of our management team from other operations;. •problems with regulatory bodies;. •declines in the value of investments;. •exposure to unanticipated liabilities;. •difficulties in realizing projected efficiencies, synergies and cost savings; and. •changes in our credit rating and financing costs.. 22. Changes in tax laws, regulations or policies, tax rates or tax assets and liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.. As a global company, we, like other corporations, are subject to taxes at the U.S. federal, state and local levels, as well as in non-U.S. jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required to determine and estimate worldwide tax liabilities. Changes in tax laws, regulations or policies and the amount and composition of pre-tax income in countries with differing tax rates or valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities could result in us having to pay or accrue higher taxes, which would in turn reduce our net income.. We are subject to potential regular examination by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities (for example, we are currently under audit in the United States for the tax period ended December 31, 2014), and from time to time we initiate amendments to previously filed tax returns. We regularly assess the likelihood of favorable or unfavorable outcomes resulting from these examinations and amendments to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes, which requires estimates and judgments. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, we cannot assure investors that the tax authorities will agree with such estimates. We may have to engage in litigation to achieve the results reflected in the estimates, which may be time-consuming and expensive. We cannot assure investors that we will be successful or that any final determination will not be materially different from the treatment reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, some of our subsidiaries are subject to tax in the jurisdictions in which they are organized or operate. In computing our tax obligation in these jurisdictions, we take various tax positions. We cannot assure investors that upon review of these positions the applicable authorities will agree with our positions. A successful challenge by a tax authority could result in additional tax imposed on our subsidiaries. Our non-U.S. businesses operate in various international markets, particularly emerging markets that are subject to greater political, economic and social uncertainties than developed countries. In certain of the countries in which we operate, tax authorities may exercise significant discretionary and arbitrary powers to make tax demands or decline to refund payments that may be due to us as per tax returns. As a result, applicable tax laws in jurisdictions where we do business could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Uncertainties in the interpretation and application of recent U.S. legislation on tax reform could have a material impact on our financial position and results of operations.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the “Act”) was signed into law making significant changes to the Internal Revenue Code. Changes include, but are not limited to, a corporate tax rate decrease from 35% to 21% effective for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, the transition of U.S international taxation from a worldwide tax system to a territorial system, a one-time transition tax on the mandatory deemed repatriation of cumulative foreign earnings as of December 31, 2017 and new limitations on the deductibility of interest. We have calculated our best estimate of the impact of the Act in our year end income tax provision in accordance with our understanding of the Act and guidance available as of the date of this filing and as a result have recorded $11.9 million as additional income tax expense in the fourth quarter of 2017, the period in which the legislation was enacted. This provisional amount relates to the remeasurement of U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the rates at which they are expected to reverse in the future, an amount for the change in the valuation allowance necessary for the deferred tax asset related to non-deductible interest and an amount related to the one-time transition tax on the mandatory deemed repatriation of foreign earnings. On December 22, 2017, Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 (‘‘SAB 118’’) was issued to address the application of U.S. GAAP in situations when a registrant does not have the necessary information available, prepared, or analyzed (including computations) in reasonable detail to complete the accounting for certain income tax effects of the Act. In accordance with SAB 118, we have determined that the deferred tax expense recorded in connection with the remeasurement of certain deferred tax assets and liabilities and the current tax expense recorded in connection with the transition tax on the mandatory deemed repatriation of foreign earnings are provisional amounts at December 31, 2017. Additional work is necessary to do a more detailed analysis of historical foreign earnings as well as potential correlative adjustments.. Because we have operations across a number of international regions, we are exposed to currency risk.. A significant portion of our revenues are denominated in foreign currency. For the year ended December 31, 2017, approximately 35% of our revenues were denominated in foreign currencies. In addition, a significant portion of our expenses are incurred in the local currencies of the countries in which we operate, including British Pound, the Euro, Swedish Krona and the Canadian Dollar. We have operations in the United States (our headquarters), Europe, the Americas and a number of other foreign countries. For financial reporting purposes, we translate all non-U.S. denominated transactions into U.S. dollars in accordance with U.S. GAAP. We therefore have significant exposure to exchange rate movements between the Pound, Euro, Kroner and Canadian Dollar and other foreign currencies towards the U.S. dollar. Fluctuations in exchange rates also affect the value of funds held by our foreign subsidiaries. Significant inflation or disproportionate changes in foreign exchange rates with respect to one or more of these currencies could occur as a result of general economic conditions, acts of war or terrorism, changes in governmental monetary or tax policy or changes in local interest rates. These exchange rate differences will affect the translation of our non-U.S. results of operations and financial condition into U.S. dollars as part of the preparation of our consolidated financial statements.. 23. Our reported financial results may be adversely affected by changes in U.S. GAAP.. U.S. GAAP is subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”), the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations, including changes related to revenue recognition, could have a significant effect on our reported financial results, and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change.. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from subscription or recurring revenue streams, and if our existing subscription customers elect not to renew these agreements, renew these agreements for fewer services, or renew these agreements for less expensive services, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected.. A substantial portion of our solutions are sold pursuant to subscription agreements, and our customers have no obligation to renew these agreements. For the year ended December 31, 2017, subscription or recurring revenue streams represented approximately 83% of our revenues. As a result, we may not be able to consistently and accurately predict future renewal rates. Our subscription customers’ renewal rates may decline or fluctuate or our subscription customers may renew for fewer services or for less expensive services as a result of a number of factors, including their level of satisfaction with our solutions, budgetary or other concerns, and the availability and pricing of competing products. If large numbers of existing subscription customers do not renew these agreements, or renew these agreements on terms less favorable to us, and if we cannot replace or supplement those non-renewals with new subscription agreements generating the same or greater level of revenue, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected.. Because we recognize subscription revenue over the term of the applicable subscription agreement, the lack of subscription renewals or new subscription agreements may not be immediately reflected in our operating results.. We recognize revenue from our subscription customers over the terms of their subscription agreements. A significant portion of our quarterly revenue usually represents deferred revenue from subscription agreements entered into during previous quarters. As a result, a decline in new or renewed subscription agreements in any one quarter will not necessarily be fully reflected in the revenue for the corresponding quarter but will negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. Additionally, the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our solutions may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. Our model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our subscription-based revenue through additional sales in any period, as revenue from new customers must be recognized over the applicable subscription term.. Because our cloud-based platform is sold to enterprises that often have complex operating environments, we may encounter long and unpredictable sales cycles, which could adversely affect our operating results in a given period.. Our ability to increase revenue and achieve profitability depends, in large part, on widespread acceptance of our cloud-based platform by enterprises. As we target our sales efforts at these customers, we face greater costs, longer sales cycles and less predictability in completing some of our sales. As a result of the variability and length of the sales cycle, we have limited ability to forecast the timing of sales. A delay in or failure to complete sales could harm our business and financial results, and could cause our financial results to vary significantly from period to period. Our sales cycle varies widely, reflecting differences in potential customers’ decision-making processes, procurement requirements and budget cycles, and is subject to significant risks over which we have little or no control, including:. •customers’ budgetary constraints and priorities, including with respect to resource allocation between PR and marketing and paid versus owned media;. •the timing of customers’ budget cycles;. •the need by some customers for lengthy evaluations prior to purchasing products; and. •the length and timing of customers’ approval processes.. Our typical direct sales cycles for more substantial enterprise customers can often be long, and we expect that this lengthy sales cycle may continue or could even increase as our products become more complex and we are asked to tailor our solutions to our enterprise customer needs. Longer sales cycles could cause our operating results and financial condition to suffer in a given period. If we cannot adequately scale our direct sales force, we will experience further delays in signing new customers, which could slow our revenue growth.. 24. The estimates of market opportunity and forecasts of market growth included in this report may prove to be inaccurate, and even if the market in which we compete achieves the forecasted growth, our business could fail to grow at similar rates, if at all.. Market opportunity estimates and growth forecasts included in this report are subject to significant uncertainty and are based on assumptions and estimates that may not prove to be accurate. Even if the market in which we compete meets the size estimates and growth forecasted in this report, our business could fail to grow at similar rates, if at all. For more information regarding the estimates of market opportunity and the forecasts of market growth included in this report, see the section entitled “Business — Industry.”. Our revenue growth rate in recent periods, which depends in part on the success of our efforts to sell and cross-sell additional services to existing customers, may not be indicative of our future performance.. The success of our strategy is dependent, in part, on the success of our efforts to sell and cross-sell additional services, whether internally developed or acquired in an acquisition, to our existing customers. These customers might choose not to expand their use of or make additional purchases of our solutions or may choose to diversify the PR solution providers with which they do business. If we fail to generate additional business from our current customers, our revenue could grow at a slower rate or decrease. Our historical revenue growth rates are not indicative of future growth, and we may not achieve similar revenue growth rates in future periods. Investors should not rely on our revenue for any prior quarterly or annual periods as an indication of our future revenue or revenue growth. Our operating results may vary as a result of a number of factors, including our ability to execute on our business strategy and compete effectively for customers and business partners and other factors that are outside of our control. If we are unable to maintain consistent revenue or revenue growth, our share price could be volatile, and it could be difficult to achieve or maintain profitability.. A portion of our services is provided on a non-recurring basis for specific projects, and our inability to replace large projects when they are completed or otherwise terminated has adversely affected, and could in the future adversely affect, our revenues and results of operations.. We provide a portion of our services for specific projects that generate revenues that terminate on completion of a defined task. For the year ended December 31, 2017, approximately 3% of our revenue was related to project-based non-recurring revenue activities. While we seek, wherever possible, on completion or termination of large projects, to counterbalance periodic declines in revenues with new arrangements to provide services to the same customer or others, our inability to obtain sufficient new projects to counterbalance any decreases in such work may adversely affect our future revenues and results of operations.. We depend on search engines to attract new customers and to generate readership for our customers’ online news releases, and if those search engines change their listings or our relationship with them deteriorates or terminates, we may lose customers or be unable to attract new customers and our business and reputation may be harmed.. We rely on search engines to attract new customers, and many of our customers locate our websites by clicking through on search results displayed by search engines such as Google, Bing and Yahoo!. Search engines typically provide two types of search results, algorithmic and purchased listings. Algorithmic search results are determined and organized solely by automated criteria set by the search engine and a ranking level cannot be purchased. Advertisers can also pay search engines to place listings more prominently in search results in order to attract users to advertisers’ websites. We rely on both algorithmic and purchased listings to attract customers to our websites. Search engines revise their algorithms from time to time in an attempt to optimize their search result listings. If search engines on which we rely for algorithmic listings modify their algorithms, then our websites may not appear at all or may appear less prominently in search results, which could result in fewer customers clicking through to our websites, requiring us to resort to other potentially costly resources to advertise and market our services. If one or more search engines on which we rely for purchased listings modifies or terminates its relationship with us, our expenses could rise, or our revenue could decline and our business may suffer. Additionally, the cost of purchased search listing advertising is rapidly increasing as demand for these channels grows, and further increases could greatly increase our expenses.. Moreover, our news distribution service depends upon the placement of our customers’ online press releases. If search engines on which we rely modify their algorithms or purposefully block our content, then information distributed via our news distribution service may not be displayed or may be displayed less prominently in search results, and as a result we could lose customers or fail to attract new customers and our results of operations could be adversely affected.. 25. If the delivery of our customers’ emails is limited or blocked, customers may cancel their accounts.. Internet service providers (“ISPs”) can block emails from reaching their users. The implementation of new or more restrictive policies by ISPs may make it more difficult to deliver our customers’ emails. If ISPs materially limit or halt the delivery of our customers’ emails, or if we fail to deliver our customers’ emails in a manner compatible with ISPs’ email handling, authentication technologies or other policies, then customers may cancel their accounts which could harm our business and financial performance.. Various private spam blacklists may interfere with the effectiveness of our products and our ability to conduct business.. We depend on email to market to and communicate with our customers, and our customers rely on email to communicate with journalists, social media influencers, and their customers and members. Various private entities attempt to regulate the use of email for commercial solicitation. These entities often advocate standards of conduct or practice that exceed legal requirements and classify certain email solicitations that comply with legal requirements as spam. Some of these entities maintain “blacklists” of companies and individuals, and the websites, ISPs and Internet protocol addresses associated with those entities or individuals. If a company’s Internet protocol addresses are listed by a blacklisting entity, emails sent from those addresses may be blocked if they are sent to any Internet domain or Internet address that subscribes to the blacklisting entity’s service or purchases its blacklist. If our services are blacklisted, our customers may be unable to effectively use our services, and as a result we could lose customers or fail to attract new customers and our results of operations could be adversely affected.. Our business relies on our ability to collect, use and leverage personal data and other content. Changes in privacy laws, regulations, and standards may interfere with our business.. We are subject to federal, state, and international laws relating to the collection, use, retention, security, and transfer of personal data. Laws and regulations governing the collection, use and disclosure of personal data and use of online analytics and tracking technologies are rapidly evolving globally. As a result, implementation standards and enforcement practices are likely to remain uncertain for the foreseeable future. We publicly post documentation regarding our practices concerning the processing, use, and disclosure of data. Any failure by us, our suppliers, or other parties with whom we do business to comply with this documentation or with other federal, state, or foreign regulations could result in proceedings against us by governmental entities or others. In many jurisdictions, enforcement actions and consequences for noncompliance are rising. In the United States, these include enforcement actions in response to rules and regulations promulgated under the authority of federal agencies and state attorneys general and legislatures and consumer protection agencies. In addition, privacy advocates and industry groups have regularly proposed, and may propose in the future, self-regulatory standards with which we must legally comply or that contractually apply to us, like the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard, or PCI DSS. If we fail to follow these security standards, such as those set forth in the PCI DSS, even if no customer information is compromised, we may incur significant fines or experience a significant increase in costs.. Internationally, many jurisdictions in which we operate have established privacy legal framework with which we, our customers or our vendors must comply, including but not limited to the European Union, or EU. The EU’s data protection landscape is currently unstable, resulting in possible significant operational costs for internal compliance and risk to our business. In addition, the EU has adopted the General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR, which is scheduled to go into effect in May 2018 and contains numerous requirements and changes from existing EU law, including more robust obligations on data processors and heavier documentation requirements for data protection compliance programs by companies. Specifically, the GDPR will introduce numerous privacy-related changes for companies operating in the EU, including greater control for data subjects (e.g., the ‘‘right to be forgotten’’), increased data portability for EU consumers, data breach notification requirements, and increased fines. In particular, under the GDPR, fines of up to 20 million euros or up to 4% of the annual global revenue of the noncompliant company, whichever is greater, could be imposed for violations of certain of the GDPR’s requirements. The GDPR requirements apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information between us and our subsidiaries, including employee information.. Changes in these laws and regulations, and self-regulatory frameworks may affect our ability to collect, use and share personal data, and to provide services to customers that rely on our ability to leverage data. Other proposed legislation could, if enacted, prohibit or limit the use of certain technologies that track individuals’ activities on web pages, in emails or on the Internet. In addition to government activity, privacy advocacy groups and the technology and marketing industries are considering various new, additional or different self-regulatory standards that may place additional burdens on us or our customers, which could reduce demand for our solutions. As a result of any continuing legislative initiatives and customer demands, we may have to modify our operations to enable us to continue to leverage personal data and other content. The cost of compliance with these laws and regulations is high and is likely to increase in the future. Any such modifications may result in increased expenses and operating complexity, and we may be unable to increase the rates we charge for our services sufficiently to offset these increases. Any failure on our part to comply with these laws, regulations and standards can result in negative publicity and diversion of management time and effort and may subject us to significant liabilities and other penalties.. 26. If our solutions fail to perform properly or if they contain technical defects, our reputation would be harmed, our market share would decline and we could be subject to product liability claims.. Our cloud-based software may contain undetected errors or defects that may result in product failures, misleading reports or otherwise cause our solutions to fail to perform in accordance with customer expectations. Because our customers use our solutions for important aspects of their business, any errors or defects in, or other performance problems with, our solutions could hurt our reputation and may damage our customers’ businesses. If that occurs, we could lose future sales, our existing subscription customers could elect to not renew or, in certain circumstances, terminate their agreements with us. Product performance problems could result in loss of market share, failure to achieve market acceptance and the diversion of development resources. If one or more of our solutions fail to perform or contain a technical defect, a customer may assert a claim against us for substantial damages, whether or not we are responsible for our solutions’ failure or defect. Product liability claims could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or arbitration/dispute resolution or to pay significant settlements or damages.. Our news distribution service is a trusted information source, and our customers rely on our email services to communicate with journalists, social media influencers, and their customers and members. To the extent we were to distribute an inaccurate or fraudulent press release or our customers used our services to transmit negative messages or website links to harmful applications, reproduce and distribute copyrighted and trademarked material without permission, or report inaccurate or fraudulent data or information, our reputation could be harmed, even though we are not responsible for the content distributed via our services.. We have incurred operating losses in the past and may incur operating losses in the future.. We have incurred operating losses in the past and we may incur operating losses in the future. In 2017, we had operating income of $38.0 million. Prior to 2017, we had operating losses of $19.6 million in 2016 and $27.6 million in 2015. We expect our operating expenses to increase as we continue to expand our operations, and if our increased operating expenses exceed our revenue growth, we may not be able to generate operating income.. Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to reduce future tax payments may be subject to limitations.. As of December 31, 2017, we had federal and state net operating loss carryforwards of $134.1 million. The federal and state net operating loss carryforwards will begin to expire, if not utilized, beginning in 2031. These net operating loss carryforwards could expire unused and be unavailable to offset future income tax liabilities. Under the newly enacted federal income tax law, federal net operating losses generated in 2018 and in future years may be carried forward indefinitely, but the deductibility of such federal net operating losses is limited. It is uncertain if and to what extent various states will conform to the newly enacted federal tax law. In addition, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the ‘‘Code’’), if a corporation undergoes an ‘‘ownership change’’ (generally defined as a greater than 50% change (by value) in its equity ownership over a three-year period), its ability to use its pre-change net operating loss carryforwards and other pre-change tax attributes to offset its post-change income may be limited. If we undergo an ownership change, we may be limited in the portion of net operating loss carryforwards that we can use in the future to offset taxable income for U.S. Federal and state income tax purposes and the utilization of other tax attributes to reduce our federal and state income tax expense.. If we are required to collect sales and use or other taxes on our solutions, we may be subject to liability for past sales and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.. Taxing jurisdictions, including state and local entities, have differing rules and regulations governing sales and use or other taxes, and these rules and regulations are subject to varying interpretations that may change over time. In particular, the applicability of sales taxes to our subscription services and e-commerce transactions in general in various jurisdictions is a complex and evolving issue. It is possible that we could face sales tax audits and an assertion that we should be collecting sales or other taxes on our services in jurisdictions where we have not historically done so and do not accrue for sales taxes. The imposition of Internet usage taxes or enhanced enforcement of sales tax laws could result in substantial tax liabilities for past sales or could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our international operations subject us to risks inherent in doing business on an international level, any of which could increase our costs and hinder our growth.. The operations of our non-U.S. business are subject to the risk inherent in international operations. Our expansion into lower cost locations may increase operational risk. Some of these economies may be subject to greater political, economic and social uncertainties than countries with more developed institutional structures. Political, economic or social events or developments in one or more of these countries could adversely affect our operations and financial results.. 27. We operate a global business. For the year ended December 31, 2017, approximately 35% of our revenue was derived from Europe (including the United Kingdom), Canada, Asia and Latin America. We are subject to certain adverse economic factors relating to overseas economies generally, including foreign currency fluctuation, inflation, external debt, a negative balance of trade and underemployment. Risks associated with our international business activities include:. •difficulties in managing international operations, including overcoming logistical and communications challenges;. •local competition;. •trade and tariff restrictions;. •price or exchange controls;. •currency control regulations;. •foreign tax consequences;. •labor disputes and related litigation and liability;. •limitations on repatriation of earnings;. •compliance with foreign laws and different legal standards; and. •changing laws and regulations, occasionally with retroactive effect.. The occurrence of any one of these risks could negatively affect our international operations and, consequently, our results of operations generally.. We are subject to U.S. and certain foreign export and import controls, sanctions, embargoes, anti-corruption laws, and anti-money laundering laws and regulations. Compliance with these legal standards could impair our ability to compete in domestic and international markets. We can face criminal liability and other serious consequences for violations which can harm our business.. We are subject to U.S. export control and economic sanctions laws and regulations and other restrictions on international trade. As such, we are required to export our technology, products, and services in compliance with those laws and regulations. If we export our technology, products, or services, the exports may require authorizations, including a license, a license exception or other appropriate government authorization. Complying with export control and economic and trade sanctions regulations for a particular transaction may be time-consuming and may result in the delay or loss of sales opportunities. In addition, the United States and other governments and their agencies impose sanctions and embargoes on certain countries, their governments and designated parties, which may prohibit the export of certain technology, products, and services to such persons altogether.. We are also subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, the U.S. domestic bribery statute contained in 18 U.S.C. § 201, the U.S. Travel Act, the USA PATRIOT Act, the United Kingdom Bribery Act 2010, the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002, and possibly other state and national anti-bribery and anti-money laundering laws in countries in which we conduct activities. Anti-corruption laws are interpreted broadly and prohibit companies and their employees, third-party intermediaries, and other associated persons from authorizing, promising, offering, providing, soliciting, or accepting directly or indirectly, improper payments or benefits to or from any person whether in the public or private sector. We have direct or indirect interactions with officials and employees of government agencies. We can be held liable for the corrupt or other illegal activities of our employees, representatives, contractors, business partners, and agents, even if we do not explicitly authorize or have actual knowledge of such activities.. Any violation of the laws and regulations described above may result in substantial civil and criminal fines and penalties, imprisonment, the loss of export or import privileges, debarment, tax reassessments, breach of contract and fraud litigation, reputational harm, and other consequences.. Our reputation could be damaged or our profitability could suffer if we do not meet the controls and procedures in respect of the services and solutions we provide to our customers, or if we contribute to our customers’ internal control deficiencies.. Our customers may perform audits or require us to perform audits, provide audit reports or obtain certifications with respect to the controls and procedures that we use in the performance of services for such customers, especially when we process data or information belonging to them. Our ability to acquire new customers and retain existing customers may be adversely affected and our reputation could be harmed if we cannot obtain an appropriate certification or opinion with respect to our controls and procedures in connection with any such audit in a timely manner. Additionally, our profitability could suffer if our controls and procedures were to fail or to impair our customers’ ability to comply with their own internal control requirements.. 28. We may dispose of or discontinue existing products and services, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We continually evaluate our various products and services in order to determine whether any should be discontinued or, to the extent possible, divested. We cannot guarantee that we have correctly forecasted, or will correctly forecast in the future, the right products or services to dispose of or discontinue, or that our decision to dispose of or discontinue various investments, products or services is prudent. There are no assurances that the discontinuance of various products or services will reduce our operating expenses or will not cause us to incur material charges with such a decision. The disposal or discontinuance of existing solutions presents various risks, including, but not limited to the inability to find a purchaser for a product or service or the purchase price obtained will not be equal to at least the book value of the net assets for the product or service, managing the expectations of, and maintaining good relations with, our customers who previously purchased discontinued solutions, which could prevent us from selling other products to them in the future. We may also incur other significant liabilities and costs associated with our disposal or discontinuance of solutions, including, but not limited to employee severance costs and excess facilities costs, all of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The loss of key personnel or of our ability to attract, recruit, retain and develop qualified employees could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our success depends upon the continued services of our senior management and other key personnel who have substantial experience in the PR software and services industry and the markets in which we offer our services. In addition, our success depends in large part upon the reputation within the industry of our senior managers. Further, in order for us to continue to successfully compete and grow, we must attract, recruit, develop and retain personnel, including key executives of organizations we acquire, who will provide us with expertise across the entire spectrum of our intellectual capital needs. Our success also depends on the skill and experience of our sales force, which we must continuously work to maintain. While we have a number of key personnel who have substantial experience with our operations, we must also develop our personnel to provide succession plans capable of maintaining the continuity of our operations. The market for qualified personnel is competitive, and we may not succeed in recruiting additional personnel or may fail to effectively replace current personnel who depart with qualified or effective successors.. Failure to retain or attract key personnel could impede our ability to grow and could result in our inability to operate our business profitably. In addition, contractual obligations related to confidentiality, assignment of intellectual property rights, and non-solicitation may be ineffective or unenforceable and departing employees may share our proprietary information with competitors in ways that could adversely impact us, or seek to solicit customers or recruit our key personnel to competing businesses.. Labor disruptions could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately 3,500 global employees, with approximately 1,400 employees located in the United States and approximately 2,100 employees located internationally. In various countries, local law requires our participation in works councils, and we have approximately 500 employees working under collective bargaining agreements. While we have not experienced any material work stoppages at any of our facilities, any stoppage or slowdown could cause material interruptions in our business, and we cannot assure investors that alternate qualified personnel would be available on a timely basis, or at all. As a result, labor disruptions at any of our locations could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Natural disasters and other events beyond our control could adversely affect us.. Natural disasters or other catastrophic events may cause damage or disruption to our operations, our servers and data centers and the global economy, and thus could have a strong negative effect on us. Our business operations and our servers and data centers are subject to interruption by natural disasters, fire, power shortages, pandemics and other events beyond our control. Although we maintain crisis management and disaster response plans, such events could make it difficult or impossible for us to continue operations, and could decrease demand for our platform. Our primary data centers are located in Chicago, IL, Sterling, VA, Piscataway, NJ, Raleigh, NC, Paris, France and London, UK, making our business particularly susceptible to natural disasters in those areas as well as in areas where our third-party data centers are located. Any natural disaster affecting our data centers could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results.. 29. Political uncertainty, political unrest or terrorism could adversely affect business conditions in those regions, which in turn could disrupt our business and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition.. We conduct business in countries and regions that are vulnerable to disruptions from political uncertainty, political unrest or terrorist acts. Any damage or disruption from political uncertainty, political unrest or terrorist acts would damage our ability to provide services, in whole or in part, and/or otherwise damage our operations and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Further, political tensions and escalation of hostilities could adversely affect our operations in these countries and therefore adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war could affect us or our clients by disrupting normal business practices for extended periods of time and reducing business confidence. In addition, acts of violence or war may make travel more difficult and may effectively curtail our ability to serve our clients’ needs, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations.. Trends in print news and media readership could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance.. The volume of content from print news sources has declined in recent years, which has reduced the volume of print news stories delivered through our content offerings. This has largely been driven by a decline in print media readership which has in turn seen a reduction in media publisher revenue and journalist numbers associated with media such as print newspapers. If the volume of content continues to decline (e.g., because of further reductions in journalist numbers by print media publishers), and if we are unable to offset this decline with our current and/or future other software and services, our future financial performance could be adversely affected.. The development of self-service media intelligence offerings and related technology could have a material adverse effect on our business.. The proliferation of digital, free-to-access news content has led to the introduction of low-cost or free self-service media intelligence offerings. Moreover, our insights group provides human-generated media intelligence analysis and consultation to some of our larger customers. More efficient or cost-effective technology that replaces the need for such human-generated analysis could have an adverse effect on our business. Our future financial performance could be affected by customers adopting these low-cost, self-service media intelligence platforms and technologies.. Decisions to declare future dividends on our ordinary shares will be at the discretion of our board of directors based upon a review of relevant considerations. Accordingly, there can be no guarantee that we will pay future dividends to our shareholders.. Future declarations of quarterly dividends and the establishment of future record and payment dates are subject to approval by the board of directors and subject to certain limitations set forth in the agreements governing our credit facilities. The board’s determination to declare dividends will depend upon our profitability and financial condition, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors that the board deems relevant. Based on an evaluation of these factors, the board of directors may determine not to declare future dividends at all or to declare future dividends at a reduced amount. Accordingly, there can be no guarantee that we will pay future dividends to our shareholders.. Our shareholders may face difficulties in protecting their interests, as Cayman Islands law provides substantially less protection when compared to the laws of the United States.. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association and by the Companies Law of the Cayman Islands (2016 Revision) (the “Companies Law”) and common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take legal action against our directors and us, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands have a less exhaustive body of securities laws as compared to the United States. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action before the United States federal courts. As a result, our shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests through actions against us or our officers, directors or major shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States.. 30. Certain judgments obtained against us by our shareholders may not be enforceable.. We are a Cayman Islands company and a portion our assets are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for investors to bring an action against us in the United States in the event that they believe that their rights have been infringed under U.S. federal securities laws or otherwise. It may not be possible to enforce certain court judgments obtained in the United States against us (or our directors or officers) in the Cayman Islands. We have been advised that there is no statutory enforcement in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in United States courts, and such matters are governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. Uncertainty exists as to whether the courts of the Cayman Islands would:. •recognize or enforce judgments of United States courts obtained against us or our directors or officers predicated upon the civil liabilities provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state in the United States; or. •entertain original actions brought in the Cayman Islands against us or our directors or officers predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state in the United States.. We have been advised that the uncertainty with regard to Cayman Islands law relates to whether a judgment obtained from the United States courts under civil liability provisions of the securities laws will be determined by the courts of the Cayman Islands as penal or punitive in nature. If such a determination is made, the courts of the Cayman Islands will not recognize or enforce the judgment against a Cayman Islands company. Because the courts of the Cayman Islands have yet to rule on whether such judgments are penal or punitive in nature, it is uncertain whether they would be enforceable in the Cayman Islands. We are further advised us that a final and conclusive judgment in the federal or state courts of the United States under which a sum of money is payable, other than a sum payable in respect of taxes, fines, penalties or similar charges, will ordinarily be recognized and enforced in the courts of the Cayman Islands without re-examination of the merits, at common law.. Our business may be adversely affected by third-party claims, including by governmental bodies, regarding the content and advertising distributed through our service.. We rely on our customers to secure the rights to redistribute content over the Internet, and we do not screen the content that is distributed through our service. There is no assurance that our customers have licensed all rights necessary for distribution, including Internet distribution. Other parties may claim certain rights in the content of our customers. In the event that our customers do not have the necessary distribution rights related to content or otherwise distribute illegal content, although we have made efforts to limit our liability we may be required to cease distributing such content or subject to lawsuits and claims of damages for infringement of such rights. Any claims or investigations could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Finances and Capital Structure. We have and will continue to have high levels of indebtedness.. As of December 31, 2017, we had no outstanding borrowings and $1.3 million of outstanding letters of credit under our current revolving credit facility (the “2017 Revolving Credit Facility”) and $1,332 million outstanding under our first lien term loan facility (the “2017 First Lien Term Credit Facility” and together with the 2017 Revolving Credit Facility, the “2017 First Lien Credit Facility”). Because borrowings under our 2017 Revolving Credit Facility bear interest at variable rates, any increase in interest rates on debt that we have not fixed using interest rate hedges will increase our interest expense, reduce our cash flow or increase the cost of future borrowings or refinancing. Our indebtedness could have important consequences to our investors, including, but not limited to:. •increasing vulnerability to, and reducing its flexibility to respond to, general adverse economic and industry conditions;. •requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to the payment of principal of, and interest on, its indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of such cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, joint ventures or other general corporate purposes;. •limiting flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and the competitive environment; and. •limiting our ability to borrow additional funds and increasing the cost of any such borrowing.. Other than variable rate debt, we believe our business has relatively large fixed costs and low variable costs, which magnifies the impact of revenue fluctuations on our operating results. As a result, a decline in our revenue may lead to a relatively larger impact on operating results. A substantial portion of our operating expenses will be related to personnel costs, regulation and corporate overhead, none of which can be adjusted quickly and some of which cannot be adjusted at all. Our operating expense levels will be based on our expectations for future revenue. If actual revenue is below management’s expectations, or if our expenses increase before revenues do, both revenues less transaction-based expenses and operating results would be materially and adversely affected. Because of these factors, it is possible that our operating results or other operating metrics may fail to meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors. If this happens, the market price of our ordinary shares may be adversely affected.. 31. The credit agreement in respect of our 2017 First Lien Credit Facility contains a change of control provision that could require us to amend or refinance our indebtedness.. The credit agreement in respect of our 2017 First Lien Credit Facility provides that an event of default will occur upon specified change of control events, which include us ceasing to beneficially own directly or indirectly all of the voting equity interests of certain credit parties thereunder. In addition, a change of control event occurs if any person or group beneficially owns directly or indirectly a majority of our voting equity interests (other than the Sponsor and certain other specified persons). Although we do not currently anticipate that any such person will beneficially own a majority of the ordinary shares prior to our amendment or refinancing of this indebtedness, no person is contractually obligated to retain the ordinary shares it holds. If we are unable to amend these agreements or refinance this indebtedness, we will be limited in our ability to issue additional equity to any person which would acquire a majority of ordinary shares following such issuance and will need to rely on other sources of financing, including additional borrowings.. Our ability to pay dividends in the future will be subject to our subsidiaries’ ability to distribute cash to us.. We do not anticipate that our board of directors will declare dividends in the foreseeable future. If we decide to declare dividends in the future, as a holding company, we will require dividends and other payments from our subsidiaries to meet such cash requirements. Our credit agreements place certain contractual restrictions on our subsidiaries’ ability to make distributions to us. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Overview” for a discussion of our credit facilities’ restrictions on our subsidiaries’ ability to make distributions to us. In addition, minimum capital requirements may indirectly restrict the amount of dividends paid upstream, and repatriations of cash from our subsidiaries may be subject to withholding, income and other taxes in various applicable jurisdictions. If our subsidiaries are unable to distribute cash to us and we are unable to pay dividends, our ordinary shares may become less attractive to investors and the price of our ordinary shares may become volatile.. Future changes to tax laws could adversely affect us.. The U.S. government, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and other governmental agencies in jurisdictions where we do business have had an extended focus on issues related to the taxation of multinational corporations. One example is in the area of “base erosion and profit shifting,” where payments are made between affiliates from a jurisdiction with high tax rates to a jurisdiction with lower tax rates. As a result, the tax laws in the countries in which we do business could change on a prospective or retroactive basis, and any such changes could adversely affect us.. The withdrawal of the U.K. from the European Union (commonly referred to as Brexit) may cause an increase in our taxes including withholding taxes on repatriation of cash from jurisdictions that are members of the European Union to or through any of our U.K. subsidiaries as a result of the U.K. no longer being entitled to benefits provided by the European Union directives.. The so called “anti-inversion” rules under U.S. federal tax law may impose adverse consequences or apply limitations on our ability to engage in future acquisitions.. Under Section 7874 of the Code, if, following an acquisition of a U.S. corporation by a foreign corporation, at least 80% of the acquiring foreign corporation’s stock by (vote and value) is considered to be held by former shareholders of the U.S. corporation by reason of holding stock of such U.S. corporation then the acquiring corporation could be treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes even though it is a corporation created and organized outside the United States.. In addition, following the acquisition of a U.S. corporation by a foreign corporation, Section 7874 of the Code can limit the ability of the acquired U.S. corporation and its U.S. affiliates to utilize U.S. tax attributes (including net operating losses and certain tax credits) to offset U.S. taxable income resulting from certain transactions if the shareholders of the acquired U.S. corporation hold at least 60% (but less than 80%), by either vote or value, of the shares of the foreign acquiring corporation by reason of holding shares in the U.S. corporation, and certain other conditions are met.. Because we are a non-U.S. corporation, Section 7874 of the Code and the regulations thereunder may apply with respect to any potential future acquisitions of U.S. corporations by us. As a result, these rules may impose adverse consequences or apply limitations on our ability to engage in future acquisitions.. 32. If we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences.. If 75% or more of our gross income in a taxable year, including our pro-rata share of the gross income of any company, U.S. or foreign, in which we are considered to own, directly or indirectly, 25% or more of the shares by value, is passive income, then we will be a passive foreign investment company, or “PFIC,” for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Alternatively, we will be considered to be a PFIC if at least 50% of our assets in a taxable year, averaged over the year and ordinarily determined based on fair market value and including our pro-rata share of the assets of any company in which we are considered to own, directly or indirectly, 25% or more of the shares by value, are held for the production of, or produce, passive income. Once treated as a PFIC, for any taxable year, a foreign corporation will generally continue to be treated as PFIC for all subsequent taxable years. If we were to be a PFIC, and a U.S. holder does not make an election to treat us as a “qualified electing fund,” or QEF, or a “mark-to-market” election, “excess distributions” to a U.S. holder, and any gain recognized by a U.S. holder on a disposition of our ordinary shares, would be taxed in an unfavorable way. Among other consequences, our dividends, to the extent that they constituted excess distributions, would be taxed at the regular rates applicable to ordinary income, rather than the 20% maximum rate applicable to certain dividends received by an individual from a qualified foreign corporation, and certain “interest” charges may apply. In addition, gains on the sale of our ordinary shares would be treated in the same way as excess distributions.. The tests for determining PFIC status are applied annually and it is difficult to make accurate predictions of future income and assets, which are relevant to the determination of PFIC status. In addition, under the applicable statutory and regulatory provisions, it is unclear whether we would be permitted to use a gross loss from sales (sales less cost of goods sold) to offset our passive income in the calculation of gross income. Although we do not expect that we will be a PFIC in the future, in light of the periodic asset and income tests applicable in making this determination, no assurance can be given that we will not become a PFIC. If we do become a PFIC in the future, U.S. holders who hold ordinary shares during any period when we are a PFIC will be subject to the foregoing rules, even if we cease to be a PFIC, subject to exceptions for U.S. holders who made a timely QEF or mark-to-market election, or certain other elections. We do not currently intend to prepare or provide the information that would enable our shareholders to make a QEF election.. Accordingly, our shareholders are urged to consult their tax advisors regarding the application of PFIC rules.. We incur increased costs and obligations as a result of being a public company.. As a privately held company, we were not required to comply with certain corporate governance and financial reporting practices and policies required of a publicly traded company. As a publicly traded company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we were not required to incur in the recent past, particularly after we are no longer an “emerging growth company” as defined under the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act, as amended (the “JOBS Act”). In addition, new and changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and the rules and regulations promulgated and to be promulgated thereunder, as well as under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the JOBS Act, and the rules and regulations of the SEC and national securities exchanges have created uncertainty for public companies and increased the costs and the time that our board of directors and management must devote to complying with these rules and regulations. We expect these rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and lead to a diversion of management time and attention from revenue generating activities.. Furthermore, the maintenance of the corporate infrastructure demanded of a public company may divert management’s attention from implementing our growth strategy, which could prevent us from improving our business, results of operations and financial condition. As of December 31, 2017, our management has concluded that we did not maintain effective controls over the preparation and review of the income tax provision and related current and deferred income tax accounts. Specifically, a material weakness in the design of our controls did not ensure that the information used to prepare the income tax provision and related current and deferred income tax accounts was complete and accurate. For more information about this material weakness, see Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures.” We have made, and will continue to make, enhancements to our internal controls and procedures for financial reporting and accounting systems to meet our reporting obligations as a publicly traded company. However, the measures we take may not be sufficient to satisfy our obligations as a publicly traded company.. For as long as we remain an “emerging growth company” as defined in the JOBS Act, we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not “emerging growth companies.” We may remain an “emerging growth company” until October 19, 2020 (the fifth anniversary of the consummation of our predecessor’s initial public offering) or until such earlier time that we have more than $1.07 billion in annual revenues, have more than $700.0 million in market value of our ordinary shares held by non-affiliates, or issue more than $1.0 billion of non-convertible debt securities over a three-year period. Further, there is no guarantee that the exemptions available to us under the JOBS Act will result in significant savings. To the extent we choose not to use exemptions from various reporting requirements under the JOBS Act, we will incur additional compliance costs, which may impact earnings.. 33. As an “emerging growth company,” we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to “emerging growth companies” will make our ordinary shares less attractive to investors.. We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the JOBS Act, and we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies including, but not limited to, not being required to obtain an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting from our independent registered public accounting firm pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. In addition, the JOBS Act provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of an extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards. This allows an emerging growth company to delay the adoption of these accounting standards until they would otherwise apply to private companies. We have elected to take advantage of such extended transition period. We cannot predict if investors will find our ordinary shares less attractive because we rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our ordinary shares less attractive as a result, there may be a less active market for our ordinary shares and our share price may be more volatile.. If we do not develop and implement all required accounting practices and policies, we may be unable to provide the financial information required of a U.S. publicly traded company in a timely and reliable manner.. If we fail to maintain effective internal controls and procedures and disclosure procedures and controls, we may be unable to provide financial information and required SEC reports that a U.S. publicly traded company is required to provide in a timely and reliable fashion. Any such delays or deficiencies could penalize us, including by limiting our ability to obtain financing, either in the public capital markets or from private sources and hurt our reputation and could thereby impede our ability to implement our growth strategy. In addition, any such delays or deficiencies could result in our failure to meet the requirements for listing of our ordinary shares on a national securities exchange.. The price of our ordinary shares may be volatile.. The price of our ordinary shares may fluctuate due to a variety of factors, including:. •actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly and annual results and those of other public companies in industry;. •mergers and strategic alliances in the industry in which we operate;. •market prices and conditions in the industry in which we operate;. •changes in government regulation;. •potential or actual military conflicts or acts of terrorism;. •the failure of securities analysts to publish research about us, or shortfalls in our operating results compared to levels forecast by securities analysts;. •announcements concerning us or our competitors; and. •the general state of the securities markets.. These market and industry factors may materially reduce the market price of our ordinary shares, regardless of our operating performance.. Reports published by analysts, including projections in those reports that differ from our actual results, could adversely affect the price and trading volume of our ordinary shares.. We currently expect that securities research analysts will establish and publish their own periodic projections for our business. These projections may vary widely and may not accurately predict the results we actually achieve. Our share price may decline if our actual results do not match the projections of these securities research analysts. Similarly, if one or more of the analysts who write reports on us downgrades our stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our share price could decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of us or fails to publish reports on us regularly, our share price or trading volume could decline. While we expect research analyst coverage, if no analysts commence coverage of us, the trading price and volume for our ordinary shares could be adversely affected.. 34. We may redeem unexpired warrants prior to their exercise at a time that is disadvantageous to the holders of our warrants, thereby making such warrants worthless.. We have the ability to redeem outstanding warrants (other than the private warrants) at any time after they become exercisable and prior to their expiration, at $0.01 per warrant, if the last reported sales price (or the closing bid price of our ordinary shares in the event the ordinary shares are not traded on any specific trading day) of the ordinary shares equals or exceeds $18.00 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30-trading day period ending on the third business day prior to the date we send proper notice of such redemption, provided that on the date we give notice of redemption and during the entire period thereafter until the time we redeem the warrants, we have an effective registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”) covering the ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of the warrants and a current prospectus relating to them is available. If and when the warrants become redeemable by us, we may exercise our redemption right even if we are unable to register or qualify the underlying securities for sale under all applicable state securities laws. Redemption of the outstanding warrants could force a warrant holder: (i) to exercise warrants and pay the exercise price therefore at a time when it may be disadvantageous for holders of our warrants to do so, (ii) to sell warrants at the then-current market price when holders might otherwise wish to hold their warrants or (iii) to accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the outstanding warrants are called for redemption, will be substantially less than the market value of such warrants.. We may issue additional ordinary shares or other equity securities without shareholder approval, which would dilute shareholder ownership interests and may depress the market price of our ordinary shares.. We may issue an aggregate of 6,000,000 ordinary shares to Cision Owner upon achievement of milestone targets, of which 2,000,000 of such shares were issued to Cision Owner on November 3, 2017. Our issuance of additional ordinary shares or other equity securities of equal or senior rank would have the following effects:. •our existing shareholders’ proportionate ownership interest will decrease;. •the amount of cash available per share, including for payment of dividends in the future, may decrease;. •the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding common share may be diminished; and. •the market price of our ordinary shares may decline.. Our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions that could adversely affect the rights of our shareholders.. Our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association contain provisions to limit the ability of others to acquire control of our company or cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions, including, among other things:. •provisions that authorize our board of directors, without action by our shareholders, to issue additional ordinary shares and preferred shares with preferential rights determined by our board of directors;. •provisions that permit only a majority of our board of directors, the chairman of our board of directors or, for so long as Cision Owner beneficially and its affiliates own at least 10% of our ordinary shares, Cision Owner to call shareholder meetings and therefore do not permit shareholders to call shareholder meetings;. •provisions that impose advance notice requirements, minimum shareholding periods and ownership thresholds, and other requirements and limitations on the ability of shareholders to propose matters for consideration at shareholder meetings; provided, however, at any time when Cision Owner beneficially owns, in the aggregate, at least 5% of our ordinary shares, such advance notice procedure will not apply to it; and. •a staggered board whereby our directors are divided into three classes, with each class subject to retirement and re-election once every three years on a rotating basis.. These provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transaction. With our staggered board of directors, at least two annual meetings of shareholders will generally be required in order to effect a change in a majority of our directors. Our staggered board of directors can discourage proxy contests for the election of our directors and purchases of substantial blocks of our shares by making it more difficult for a potential acquirer to gain control of our board of directors in a relatively short period of time."
