[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our future business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such cases, the trading price of our common stock could decline.. Our business may be adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally. We operate primarily in the Wisconsin, Minnesota and Michigan markets.  As a result, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows are significantly impacted by changes in the economic conditions in those areas.  In addition, our business is susceptible to broader economic trends within the United States economy.  From December 2007 to June 2009, the United States economy experienced the worst economic downturn since the Great Depression, resulting in a general reduction of business activity and growth across industries and regions as well as significant increases in unemployment. Many businesses experienced serious financial difficulties due to the lack of consumer spending and liquidity in the credit markets.  The financial services industry and the securities markets generally were materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes.  General declines in home prices and the resulting impact on sub-prime mortgages, and eventually, all mortgage and real estate classes as well as equity markets resulted in continued widespread shortages of liquidity across the financial services industry.  Moreover, the country and our geographic region experienced high rates of unemployment which negatively impacted the creditworthiness of our borrowers and customer base.. Although the economy has been in the recovery phase since 2009, the recovery has been weak and there can be no assurance that the economy will not enter into another recession, whether in the near term or long term.  Continuation of the slow recovery or another economic downturn or sustained, high unemployment levels may negatively impact our operating results. Additionally, adverse changes in the economy may also have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans. These factors could expose us to an increased risk of loan defaults and losses and could have an adverse impact on our earnings.. Deterioration in the markets for residential real estate, including secondary residential mortgage loan markets, could reduce our net income and profitability. During the severe recession that lasted from 2007 to 2009, softened residential housing markets, increased delinquency and default rates, and volatile and constrained secondary credit markets negatively impacted the mortgage industry. Our financial results were adversely affected by these effects including changes in real estate values, primarily in Wisconsin, Minnesota and Michigan, and our net income declined as a result. Decreases in real estate values adversely affected the value of property used as collateral for loans as well as investments in our portfolio.  Continued slow growth in the economy since 2009 has resulted in increased competition and lower rates, which has negatively impacted our net income and profits.. The foregoing changes could affect our ability to originate loans and deposits, the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities and the average maturity of our securities portfolio. An increase in the level of interest rates may also adversely affect the ability of certain of our borrowers to repay their obligations. If interest rates paid on deposits or other borrowings were to increase at a faster rate than the interest rates earned on loans and investments, our net income would be adversely affected.. We are subject to interest rate risk. Through our banking subsidiary, the Bank, our profitability depends in large part on our net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned from interest-earning assets, such as loans and mortgage-backed securities, and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Our net interest income will be adversely affected if market interest rates change such that the interest we pay on deposits and borrowings increase faster than the interest earned on loans and investments.  The rates of interest we earn on assets and pay on liabilities generally are established contractually for a period of time. Market interest rates change over time due to many factors that are beyond our control, including but not limited to: general economic conditions and government policy decisions, especially policies of the Federal Reserve Bank. Accordingly, our results of operations, like those of other financial institutions, are impacted by changes in interest rates and the interest rate sensitivity of our assets and liabilities. The risk associated with changes in interest rates and our ability to adapt to these changes is known as interest rate risk.. We are subject to lending risk. There are inherent risks associated with our lending activities. These risks include the impact of changes in interest rates and changes in the economic conditions in the markets we serve, as well as those across the United States. An increase in interest rates or weakening economic conditions (such as high levels of unemployment) could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, or could substantially weaken the value of collateral. 8. securing those loans. Downward pressure on real estate values could increase the potential for problem loans and thus have a direct impact on our consolidated results of operations.. We are subject to higher lending risks with respect to our commercial and agricultural banking activities which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our loans include commercial and agricultural loans, which include loans secured by real estate as well as loans secured by personal property. Commercial real estate lending, including agricultural loans, typically involves higher loan principal amounts and the repayment of these loans is generally largely dependent on the successful operation of the property or the business conducted on the property securing the loan. Commercial real estate loans may be more adversely affected by conditions in the real estate markets or in the general economy. Agricultural non-real estate loans carry significant risks as they may involve larger balances concentrated with a single borrower or group of related borrowers. In addition, repayment of such loans depends on the successful operation or management of the farm property securing the loan for which an operating loan is utilized. Farming operations may be affected by factors outside of the borrower's control, including adverse weather conditions, such as drought, hail or floods that can severely limit crop yields and declines in market prices for agricultural products. Although the Bank manages lending risks through its underwriting and credit administration policies, no assurance can be given that such risks will not materialize, in which event, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and business prospects could be materially adversely affected.. Our allowance for loan losses may be insufficient. To address risks inherent in our loan portfolio, we maintain an allowance for loan losses that represents management's best estimate of probable losses that exist within our loan portfolio. The level of the allowance reflects management's continuing evaluation of various factors, including specific credit risks, historical loan loss experience, current loan portfolio quality, present economic, political and regulatory conditions, and unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. Determining the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make estimates of significant credit risks, which may undergo material changes. In evaluating our impaired loans, we assess repayment expectations and determine collateral values based on all information that is available to us. However, we must often make subjective decisions based on our assumption about the creditworthiness of the borrowers and the values of collateral securing these loans.. Deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans, and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in our allowance for loan losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically examine our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the allowance or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different from those of our management.. If charge-offs in future periods exceed our allowance for loan losses, we will need to take additional loan loss provisions to increase our allowance for loan losses. Any additional loan loss provision will reduce our net income or increase our net loss, which could have a direct material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. A new accounting standard may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\") has adopted a new accounting standard that will be effective for the Company for our first fiscal year after December 15, 2020. This standard, referred to as Current Expected Credit Loss, or CECL, will require financial institutions to determine periodic estimates of lifetime expected credit losses on loans, and recognize the expected credit losses as allowances for loan losses. This will change the current method of providing allowances for loan losses that are probable, which may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses, and to greatly increase the types of data we will need to collect and review to determine the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses  Banking regulators expect the new accounting standard will increase the allowance for loan losses.  Any change in the allowance for loan losses at the time of adoption will be an adjustment to retained earnings and would change the Bank's capital levels. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or expenses incurred to determine the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in the fair value or ratings downgrades of our securities may reduce our stockholders' equity, net earnings, or regulatory capital ratios. At September 30, 2017, $95,883 of our securities, were classified as available for sale and $5,453 were classified as held to maturity. The estimated fair value of our available for sale securities portfolio may increase or decrease depending on market conditions. Our available for sale securities portfolio is comprised primarily of fixed-rate securities. We increase or decrease stockholders' equity by the amount of the change in unrealized gain or loss (the difference between the estimated fair value and amortized cost) of our available for sale securities portfolio, net of the related tax benefit or provision, under the category of accumulated other comprehensive income/loss. Therefore, a decline in the estimated fair value of this portfolio will result in a decline in our reported stockholders' equity, as well as our book value per common share. 9. and tangible book value per common share. This decrease will occur even though the securities are not sold. In the case of debt securities, if these securities are never sold, the decrease may be recovered over the life of the securities.. We conduct a periodic review and evaluation of our securities portfolio to determine if the decline in the fair value of any security below its cost basis is other-than-temporary. Factors which we consider in our analysis include, but are not limited to, the severity and duration of the decline in fair value of the security, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, whether the decline appears to be related to issuer conditions or general market or industry conditions, our intent and ability to retain the security for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in fair value and the likelihood of any near-term fair value recovery. We generally view changes in fair value caused by changes in interest rates as temporary, which is consistent with our experience. If we deem such decline to be other-than-temporary related to credit losses, the security is written down to a new cost basis and the resulting loss is charged to earnings as a component of non-interest income in the period in which the decline in value occurs.. We have, in the past, recorded other than temporary impairment (\"OTTI\") charges, principally arising from investments in non-agency mortgage-backed securities. We continue to monitor our securities portfolio as part of our ongoing OTTI evaluation process. No assurance can be given that we will not need to recognize OTTI charges related to securities in the future. Future OTTI charges would cause decreases to both Tier 1 and Risk-based capital levels which may expose the Company and/or the Bank to additional regulatory restrictions.. The capital that we are required to maintain for regulatory purposes is impacted by, among other factors, the securities ratings on our portfolio. Therefore, ratings downgrades on our securities may also have a material adverse effect on our risk-based regulatory capital levels.. Competition may affect our results. We face strong competition in originating loans, in seeking deposits and in offering other banking services. We compete with commercial banks, trust companies, mortgage banking firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies and brokerage and investment banking firms. Our market area is also served by commercial banks and savings associations that are substantially larger than us in terms of deposits and loans and have greater human and financial resources. This competitive climate can make it difficult to establish, maintain and retain relationships with new and existing customers and can lower the rate we are able to charge on loans, increase the rates we must offer on deposits, and affect our charges for other services. Those factors can, in turn, adversely affect our results of operations and profitability.. We are a community bank and our ability to maintain our reputation is critical to the success of our business and the failure to do so may materially adversely affect our performance.. We are a community bank, and our reputation is one of the most valuable components of our business. A key component of our business strategy is to rely on our reputation for customer service and knowledge of local markets to expand our presence by capturing new business opportunities from existing and prospective customers in our market area and contiguous areas. As such, we strive to conduct our business in a manner that enhances our reputation. This is done, in part, by recruiting, hiring and retaining employees who share our core values of being an integral part of the communities we serve, delivering superior service to our customers and caring about our customers and associates. If our reputation is negatively affected by the actions of our employees, by our inability to conduct our operations in a manner that is appealing to current or prospective customers, or otherwise, our business and, therefore, our operating results may be materially adversely affected.. We may not have sufficient pre-tax net income in future periods to fully realize the benefits of our net deferred tax assets. Assessing the need for, or the sufficiency of, a valuation allowance requires management to evaluate all available evidence. Based on future pre-tax net income projections and the planned execution of existing tax planning strategies, we believe that it is more likely than not that we will fully realize the benefits of our net deferred tax assets. However, our current assessment is based on assumptions and judgments that may or may not reflect actual future results. If a valuation allowance becomes necessary, it could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition.. Maintaining or increasing our market share may depend on lowering prices and market acceptance of new products and services. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to adapt our products and services to evolving industry standards and customer demands. We face increasing pressure to provide products and services at lower prices, which can reduce our net interest margin and revenues from our fee-based products and services. In addition, the widespread adoption of new technologies, including internet and mobile banking services, could require us to make substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our existing products and services. Also, these and other capital investments in our business may not produce expected growth in earnings anticipated at the time of the expenditure. We may not be successful in introducing new products and services, achieving market acceptance of our products and services, or developing and maintaining loyal customers, which in turn, could adversely affect our results of operations and profitability.. 10. Acts or threats of terrorism and political or military actions by the United States or other governments could adversely affect general economic industry conditions. Geopolitical conditions may affect our earnings. Acts or threats of terrorism and political actions taken by the United States or other governments in response to terrorism, or similar activity, could adversely affect general or industry conditions and, as a result, our consolidated financial condition and results of operations.. We operate in a highly regulated environment, and are subject to changes, which could increase our cost structure or have other negative impacts on our operations. The banking industry is extensively regulated at the federal and state levels. Insured depository institutions and their holding companies are subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision by financial regulatory authorities covering all aspects of their organization, management and operations. Specifically, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act has resulted in the elimination of the Office of Thrift Supervision, tightening of capital standards, and the creation of the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. Moreover, it has resulted, or is likely to result, in new laws, regulations and regulatory supervisors that are expected to increase our cost of operations.  In addition to its regulatory powers, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (\"OCC\") also has significant enforcement authority that it can use to address banking practices that it believes to be unsafe and unsound, violations of laws, and capital and operational deficiencies. Regulation includes, among other things, capital and reserve requirements, permissible investments and lines of business, dividend limitations, limitations on products and services offered, loan limits, geographical limits, consumer credit regulations, community reinvestment requirements and restrictions on transactions with affiliated parties. The system of supervision and regulation applicable to us establishes a comprehensive framework for our operations and is intended primarily for the protection of the Deposit Insurance Fund, our depositors and the public, rather than our stockholders. We are also subject to regulation by the SEC. Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations or policies could result in sanction by regulatory agencies, civil monetary penalties, and/or damage to our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any change in government regulation could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We have become subject to more stringent capital requirements, which may adversely impact our return on equity, require us to raise additional capital, or limit our ability to pay dividends or repurchase shares.. The Basel III Rules, which became effective for us on January 1, 2015, include new minimum risk-based capital and leverage ratios and refines the definition of what constitutes \"capital\" for calculating these ratios. The new minimum capital requirements are: (i) a new common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%; (ii) a Tier 1 to risk-based assets capital ratio of 6% (increased from 4%); (iii) a total capital ratio of 8% (unchanged from prior rules); and (iv) a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4%. The Basel III Rules also establish a \"capital conservation buffer\" of 2.5%, and, when fully phased in, will result in the following minimum ratios: (i) a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 7.0%; (ii) a Tier 1 to risk-based assets capital ratio of 8.5%; and (iii) a total capital ratio of 10.5%. The new capital conservation buffer requirement is being phased in beginning in January 2016 at 0.625% of risk-weighted assets and will increase each year until fully implemented in January 2019. An institution will be subject to limitations on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases and paying discretionary bonuses if its capital level falls below the buffer amount. The application of more stringent capital requirements could, among other things, result in lower returns on equity, and result in regulatory actions if we are unable to comply with such requirements. Furthermore, the imposition of liquidity requirements in connection with the implementation of the Basel III Rules could result in our having to lengthen the term of our funding sources, change our business models or increase our holdings of liquid assets. Specifically, the Banks's ability to pay dividends will be limited if it does not have the capital conservation buffer required by the new capital rules, which may further limit the Company's ability to pay dividends to stockholders. See Item 1, \"Business  -  Regulation and Supervision  -  New Capital Rules.\". We are subject to increases in FDIC insurance premiums and special assessments by the FDIC, which will adversely affect our earnings.  We are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. For example, during 2008 and 2009, higher levels of bank failures dramatically increased resolution costs of the FDIC and depleted the Deposit Insurance Fund. On July 21, 2010, President Barack Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, which, in part, permanently raised the current standard maximum deposit insurance amount to $250,000 per customer (up from $100,000). These programs placed additional stress on the Deposit Insurance Fund. In order to maintain a strong funding position and restore reserve ratios of the Deposit Insurance Fund, the FDIC increased assessment rates of the insured institutions.  If additional bank or financial institution failures increase, or if the cost of resolving prior failures exceeds expectations, we may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the current levels. Any future increases or required prepayments of FDIC insurance premiums may adversely impact our earnings and financial condition.. Customers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions, which could result in a loss of income to us. Technology and other changes are allowing customers to complete financial transactions that historically have involved banks at one or both ends of the transaction. For example, customers can now pay bills and transfer funds directly without. 11. going through a bank. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as disintermediation, could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits.. We could experience an unexpected inability to obtain needed liquidity. Liquidity measures the ability to meet current and future cash flow needs as they become due. The liquidity of a financial institution reflects its ability to meet loan requests, to accommodate possible outflows in deposits, and to take advantage of interest rate market opportunities. The ability of a financial institution to meet its current financial obligations is a function of its balance sheet structure, its ability to liquidate assets and its access to alternative sources of funds. We seek to ensure our funding needs are met by maintaining an appropriate level of liquidity through asset/liability management. If we become unable to obtain funds when needed, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and, in turn, our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, it could limit our ability to take advantage of what we believe to be good market opportunities for expanding our loan portfolio.. Future growth, operating results or regulatory requirements may require us to raise additional capital but that capital may not be available. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. To the extent our future operating results erode capital or we elect to expand through loan growth or acquisition, we may be required to raise additional capital.. Our ability to raise capital will depend on conditions in the capital markets, which are outside of our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot be assured of our ability to raise capital when needed or on favorable terms. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed or if we are subject to material unfavorable terms for such capital, we may be subject to increased regulatory supervision and the imposition of restrictions on our growth and business. These actions could negatively impact our ability to operate or further expand our operations and may result in increases in operating expenses and reductions in revenues that could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations.. Our internal controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented. Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well-designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any (a) failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures, (b) failure to adequately address any internal control deficiencies, or (c) failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material effect on our business, consolidated financial condition and results of operations. See Item 9A \"Controls and Procedures\" for further discussion of our internal controls.. We may not be able to attract or retain key people. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain key people. We depend on the talents and leadership of our executive team, including Stephen M. Bianchi, our Chief Executive Officer, and James S. Broucek, our Chief Financial Officer. Competition for the best people in most activities engaged in by us can be intense, and we may not be able to hire people or retain them. Although Mr. Bianchi and Mr. Broucek are under employment agreements expiring in 2019 and 2020, respectively, unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of their skills, knowledge of our local markets, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel.. We continually encounter technological change. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology driven by new or modified products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations.. We rely on network and information systems and other technologies, and, as a result, we are subject to various Cybersecurity risks. Cybersecurity refers to the combination of technologies, processes and procedures established to protect information technology systems and data from unauthorized access, attack, or damage. Our business involves the storage and transmission of customers' personal information. While we have internal policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of a failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, as well as contracts and service agreements with applicable outside vendors, we cannot be assured that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do, that they will be addressed adequately.  Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client or customer information, whether through a breach of our computer systems or otherwise, could severely harm our business.  Although we have implemented measures to prevent security breaches, cyber incidents and other security threats, our facilities and systems,. 12. and those of third party service providers, may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human error, or other similar events that could have a material adverse effect on our business. Furthermore, the storage and transmission of such data is regulated at the federal and state level. Privacy information security laws and regulation changes, and compliance therewith, may result in cost increases due to system changes and the development of new administrative processes. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations or experience a data security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, whether by us or our vendors, our reputation could be damaged, possibly resulting in lost future business, and we could be subject to fines, penalties, administrative orders and other legal risks as a result of a breach or non-compliance.. Acquisition and expansion activities may disrupt our business, dilute existing stockholders and adversely affect our operating results. We recently acquired through merger, Community Bank of Northern Wisconsin (\"CBN\") and WFC. We intend to continue to evaluate potential acquisitions and expansion opportunities in the normal course of business. Although the integration of CBN and WFC into our operations is successfully proceeding, we cannot assure you that we will be able to adequately and profitably manage any such future acquisitions. Acquiring other banks or financial service companies, as well as other geographic and product expansion activities involve various risks including:. • risks of unknown or contingent liabilities;. • unanticipated costs and delays;. • risks that acquired new businesses do not perform consistent with our growth and profitability expectations;. • risks of entering new markets or product areas where we have limited experience;. • risks that growth will strain our infrastructure, staff, internal controls and management, which may require additional personnel, time and expenditures;. • exposure to potential asset quality issues with acquired institutions;. • difficulties, expenses and delays of integrating the operations and personnel of acquired institutions, and start-up delays and costs of other expansion activities;. • potential disruptions to our business;. • possible loss of key employees and customers of acquired institutions;. • potential short-term decreases in profitability, and. • diversion of our management's time and attention from our existing operations and business. Our failure to execute our acquisition strategy could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and future prospects.. We are subject to changes in accounting principles, policies or guidelines. Our financial performance is impacted by accounting principles, policies and guidelines. Some of these policies require the use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of our assets or liabilities and financial results. Some of our accounting policies are critical because they require management to make subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because it is likely that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. If such estimates or assumptions underlying our financial statements are incorrect, we may experience material losses.. From time to time, the FASB and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards or the interpretation of those standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes are beyond our control, can be difficult to predict and could materially impact how we report our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in these standards are continuously occurring, and given recent economic conditions, more drastic changes may occur. The implementation of such changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our ability to pay dividends depends primarily on dividends from our banking subsidiary, the Bank, which is subject to regulatory and other limitations.  We are a bank holding company and our operations are conducted primarily by our banking subsidiary, the Bank. Since we receive substantially all of our revenue from dividends from the Bank, our ability to pay dividends on our common stock depends on our receipt of dividends from the Bank.. The Company is a legal entity separate and distinct from its banking subsidiary. As a bank holding company, the Company is subject to certain restrictions on its ability to pay dividends under applicable banking laws and regulations. Federal bank regulators are authorized to determine under certain circumstances relating to the financial condition of a bank holding company or a bank that the payment of dividends would be an unsafe or unsound practice and to prohibit payment thereof. In particular, federal bank regulators have stated that paying dividends that deplete a banking organization's capital base to an inadequate level would be an unsafe and unsound banking practice and that banking organizations should generally pay dividends only out of current operating earnings. In addition, in the current financial and economic environment, the Federal Reserve has indicated that bank holding companies should carefully review their dividend policy and has discouraged payment ratios that are at maximum allowable levels unless both asset quality and capital are very strong.. 13. The ability of the Bank to pay dividends to us is also subject to its profitability, financial condition, capital expenditures and other cash flow requirements. The Bank may not be able to generate adequate cash flow to pay us dividends in the future. The Company's ability to pay dividends is also subject to the terms of its Second Amended and Restated Loan Agreement dated May 30, 2017, which prohibits the Company from making dividend payments while an event of default has occurred and is continuing under the loan agreement or from allowing payment of a dividend which would create an event of default. The Company has pledged 100% of Bank stock as collateral for the loan and credit facilities.  The inability to receive dividends from the Bank could have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition.. Furthermore, holders of our common stock are only entitled to receive the dividends as our Board of Directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Although we have historically paid cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and our Board of Directors could reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in the future. This could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. Our shares of common stock are thinly traded and our stock price may be more volatile. Because our common stock is thinly traded, its market price may fluctuate significantly more than the stock market in general or the stock prices of similar companies, which are exchanged, listed or quoted on the NASDAQ Stock Market. We believe there are 5,452,432 shares of our common stock held by nonaffiliates as of December 13, 2017. Thus, our common stock will be less liquid than the stock of companies with broader public ownership, and as a result, the trading prices for our shares of common stock may be more volatile. Among other things, trading of a relatively small volume of our common stock may have a greater impact on the trading price of our stock than would be the case if our public float were larger."
