[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business, financial condition, and results of operation could be harmed by any of the following risks, or other risks that have not been identified or which we believe are immaterial or unlikely. Shareholders should carefully consider the risks described below in conjunction with other information in this Form 10-K and the information incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes.. The full impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\") on us and our customers is unknown at present, creating uncertainty and risk related to our customers' future demand for credit and our future results.. Increased economic activity expected to result from the decrease in tax rates on businesses generally could spur additional economic activity that would encourage additional borrowing. At the same time, some customers may elect to use their additional cash flow from lower taxes to fund their existing levels of activity, decreasing borrowing needs. The elimination of the federal income tax deductibility of business interest expense for a significant number of our customers effectively increases the cost of borrowing and makes equity hybrid funding relatively more attractive. This could have a long-term negative impact on business customer borrowing. We are anticipating a significant increase in our after-tax net income available to stockholders in 2018 and future years as a result of the decrease in our effective tax rate. Some of all of this benefit could be lost to the extent that the banks and financial services companies we compete with elect to lower interest rates and fees and we are forced to respond in order to remain competitive. There is no assurance that presently anticipated benefits of the Tax Act for the Company will be realized.. Legislative and regulatory initiatives to support the financial services industry have been coupled with numerous restrictions and requirements that could detrimentally affect our business.. The Dodd-Frank Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder significantly impacted the United States bank regulatory structure and affected the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The scope and impact of many of the Dodd-Frank Act provisions, including the authority provided to the CFPB, will continue to be determined over time as rules and regulations are issued and become effective. As a result, we cannot predict the ultimate impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on us at this time, including the extent to which it could increase costs or limit our ability to pursue business opportunities in an efficient manner, or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay dividends. At a minimum it has. Page 14. Table of Contents. increased our operating and compliance costs. Compliance with these requirements has necessitated that we design and implement additional internal controls,  and incur other significant expenses.. Changes to capital requirements for bank holding companies and depository institutions may negatively impact our results of operations.. In July 2013, the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC approved final rules that substantially amend the regulatory risk-based capital rules applicable to the Company and the Bank. The final rules implement the Basel III regulatory capital reforms and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act.. Under these rules, the leverage and risk-based capital ratios of bank holding companies may not be lower than the leverage and risk-based capital ratios for insured depository institutions. The final rules implementing the Basel III regulatory capital reforms were effective as to the Company and the Bank on January 1, 2015, and include new minimum risk-based capital and leverage ratios. Moreover, these rules refine the definition of what constitutes \"capital\" for purposes of calculating those ratios, including the definitions of Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital. The new minimum capital level requirements applicable to bank holding companies and banks subject to the rules are: (i) a new common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%; (ii) a Tier 1 riskbased capital ratio of 6% (increased from 4%); (iii) a total risk-based capital ratio of 8% (unchanged from current rules); (iv) a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4% for all institutions. The rules also establish a \"capital conservation buffer\" of 2.5% (to be phased in over multiple years) above the new regulatory minimum risk-based capital ratios, and result in the following minimum ratios once the capital conservation buffer is fully phased in: (i) a common equity Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 7%, (ii) a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 8.5%, and (iii) a total risk-based capital ratio of 10.5%. The capital conservation buffer requirement is to be phased in over a multi-year period beginning in January 2016 at 0.625% of risk-weighted assets and would increase each year until fully implemented in January 2019. An institution will be subject to limitations on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases and paying discretionary bonuses if capital levels fall below minimum plus the buffer amounts. These limitations establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that could be utilized for such actions.. Under these new rules, Tier 1 capital will generally consist of common stock (plus related surplus) and retained earnings, limited amounts of minority interest in the form of additional Tier 1 capital instruments, and non-cumulative preferred stock and related surplus, subject to certain eligibility standards, less goodwill and other specified intangible assets and other regulatory deductions. Cumulative preferred stock and trust preferred securities issued after May 19, 2010, will no longer qualify as Tier 1 capital, but such securities issued prior to May 19, 2010, including in the case of bank holding companies with less than $15.0 billion in total assets, trust preferred securities issued prior to that date, will continue to count as Tier 1 capital subject to certain limitations. The definition of Tier 2 capital is generally unchanged for most banking organizations, subject to certain new eligibility criteria. Common equity Tier 1 capital will generally consist of common stock (plus related surplus) and retained earnings plus limited amounts of minority interest in the form of common stock, less goodwill and other specified intangible assets and other regulatory deductions.. The application of more stringent capital requirements for the Company and the Bank, like those adopted to implement the Basel III reforms, could, among other things, result in lower returns on invested capital, require the raising of additional capital, and result in regulatory actions if we were to be unable to comply with such requirements. Implementation of changes to asset risk weightings for risk based capital calculations, items included or deducted in calculating regulatory capital and/or additional capital conservation buffers could result in management modifying its business strategy and could limit our ability to make distributions, including paying dividends or buying back shares.. We may be adversely affected by interest rate changes.. Our earnings are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular, the Federal Reserve. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities, and (iii) the average duration of our loan and mortgage-backed securities portfolios. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net interest. Page 15. Table of Contents. income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings.. We generally seek to maintain a neutral position in terms of the volume of assets and liabilities that mature or re-price during any period. As such, we have adopted asset and liability management strategies to attempt to minimize the potential adverse effects of changes in interest rates on net interest income, primarily by altering the mix and maturity of loans, investments and funding sources, so that it may reasonably maintain its net interest income and net interest margin. However, interest rate fluctuations, the level and shape of the interest rate yield curve, loan prepayments, loan production and deposit flows are constantly changing and influence the ability to maintain a neutral position. Accordingly, we may not be successful in maintaining a neutral position and, as a result, our net interest margin may be adversely impacted.. Our loan portfolio exposes us to credit risk.. There are inherent risks associated with our lending activities and we seek to mitigate these risks by adhering to conservative underwriting practices.  Although we believe that our underwriting practices are appropriate for the various kinds of loans we make, we may nevertheless incur losses on loans that meet our underwriting criteria, and these losses may exceed the amounts set aside as reserves in our allowance for loan losses.  Increased credit risk may result from several factors, including adverse changes in local, U.S. and global economic and industry conditions, declines in the value of collateral, concentrations of credit associated with specific loan categories, industries or collateral types and risks related to individual borrowers.  We rely heavily on information provided by third parties when originating and monitoring loans.  If this information is intentionally or negligently misrepresented and we do not detect such misrepresentations, the credit risk associated with the transaction may be increased.  Although we attempt to manage our credit risk by carefully monitoring the concentration of our loans within specific loan categories and industries and through prudent loan approval and monitoring practices in all categories of our lending, we cannot assure you that our approval and monitoring procedures will reduce these lending risks.  If our credit administration personnel, policies and procedures are not able to adequately adapt to changes in economic or other conditions that affect customers and the quality of the loan portfolio, we may incur increased losses that could adversely affect our financial results.. We are exposed to higher credit risk by commercial real estate, commercial and agricultural loans.. Commercial real estate and commercial and agricultural lending usually involve higher credit risks than that of single-family residential lending. As of December 31, 2017, commercial real estate loans accounted for 60.6% of our loan portfolio and commercial and agricultural loans accounted for 16.4% of our loan portfolio. These types of loans involve larger loan balances to a single borrower or groups of related borrowers. Commercial real estate loans may be affected to a greater extent than residential loans by adverse conditions in real estate markets or the economy because commercial real estate borrowers' ability to repay their loans depends on successful development of their properties, in addition to the factors affecting residential real estate borrowers. These loans also involve greater risk because they generally are not fully amortizing over the loan period, but have a balloon payment due at maturity. A borrower's ability to make a balloon payment typically will depend on being able to either refinance the loan or sell the underlying property in a timely manner.. Commercial loans are typically based on the borrowers' ability to repay the loans from the cash flow of their businesses. These loans may involve greater risk because the availability of funds to repay each loan depends substantially on the success of the business itself. In addition, the collateral securing the loans have the following characteristics: (a) they depreciate over time, (b) they are difficult to appraise and liquidate, and (c) they fluctuate in value based on the success of the business.. Risk of loss on a construction loan depends largely upon whether our initial estimate of the property's value at completion of construction equals or exceeds the cost of the property construction (including interest), the availability of permanent take-out financing, and the builder's ability to ultimately sell the property. During the construction phase, a number of factors can result in delays and cost overruns. If estimates of value are inaccurate or if actual construction costs exceed estimates, the value of the property securing the loan may be insufficient to ensure full repayment when completed through a permanent loan or by seizure of collateral.. Commercial real estate and commercial and agricultural loans are more susceptible to a risk of loss during a downturn in the business cycle. Our underwriting, review and monitoring cannot eliminate all of the risks related to these loans.. Page 16. Table of Contents. The banking regulators are giving commercial real estate lending greater scrutiny, and may require banks with higher levels of commercial real estate loans to implement improved underwriting, internal controls, risk management policies and portfolio stress testing, as well as possibly higher levels of allowances for losses and capital levels as a result of commercial real estate lending growth and exposures.. Our loan portfolio possesses increased risk due to our relatively high concentration of loans collateralized by real estate.. Approximately 85% of our loan portfolio as of December 31, 2017 was comprised of loans collateralized by real estate. Further adverse changes in the economy affecting values of real estate generally or in our primary market specifically could significantly impair the value of our collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. The real estate collateral provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. If real estate values decline, it is also more likely that we would be required to increase our allowance for loan losses. If during a period of reduced real estate values we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt or to increase our allowance for loan losses, it could materially reduce our profitability and adversely affect our financial condition.. Weakness in the residential real estate markets could adversely affect our performance.. As of December 31, 2017, consumer residential real estate loans represented approximately 22.0% of our total loan portfolio. Declines in home values would adversely affect the value of collateral securing the residential real estate that we hold, as well as the volume of loan originations and the amount we realize on the sale of real estate loans. These factors could result in higher delinquencies and greater charge-offs in future periods, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. If our allowance for loan losses proves to be insufficient to absorb probable incurred losses in our loan portfolio,  our earnings will decrease.. If loan customers with significant loan balances fail to repay their loans, our earnings and capital levels will suffer. We maintain an allowance for loan losses that we believe is a reasonable estimate of probable incurred losses within the loan portfolio. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of any collateral securing the loans. Through a periodic review and consideration of the loan portfolio, management determines the amount of the allowance for loan losses by considering general market conditions, credit quality of the loan portfolio, the collateral supporting the loans and performance of customers relative to their financial obligations with us. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, which may be beyond our control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. We cannot fully predict the amount or timing of losses or whether the loss allowance will be adequate in the future and our current and future allowances for loan losses may not be adequate to cover future loan losses given current and future market conditions. Excessive loan losses and significant additions to our allowance for loan losses could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of our management. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. General economic conditions in the U.S. and in our local economy could adversely affect us.. Our financial performance generally, and in particular the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans, as well as demand for loans and other products and services that the Bank offers, is highly dependent upon the business environment in markets where the Bank operates and in the United States as a whole. A favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors, economic growth, efficient capital markets, low inflation, low unemployment, high business and investor confidence and strong business earnings. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or business confidence; limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital; increases in inflation or interest rates; high unemployment, natural disasters, terrorist acts, or a combination of these or other factors. The U.S. economy experienced growth during 2017, with increasing exports, jobs, and manufacturing production.  Real GDP has increased, and unemployment is in line with a full-employment economy.. Page 17. Table of Contents. However, if tighter financial conditions emerge, along with additional rate hikes by the Federal Reserve, there can be no assurance that the economy will not enter into another recession, whether in the near term or long term. An economic downturn or sustained, high unemployment levels and stock market volatility may negatively impact our operating results and have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, increasing the risk of loan defaults and losses.. Our ability to maintain required capital levels and adequate sources of funding and liquidity could be impacted by changes in the capital markets and deteriorating economic and market conditions.. We, and the Bank, are required to maintain certain capital levels established by banking regulations or specified by bank regulators, including those capital maintenance standards imposed on us as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, and we are required to serve as a source of strength to the Bank. We must also maintain adequate funding sources in the normal course of business to support our operations and fund outstanding liabilities. Our ability to maintain capital levels, sources of funding and liquidity could be impacted by changes in the capital markets in which we operate and deteriorating economic and market conditions. The Bank will be required to obtain regulatory approval in order to pay dividends to us unless the amount of such dividends does not exceed its retained net profits for that year plus the preceding two years. Failure by the Bank to meet applicable capital guidelines or to satisfy certain other regulatory requirements could subject our bank subsidiary to a variety of enforcement remedies available to the federal regulatory authorities.. Certain of our deposits and other funding sources may be volatile and impact our liquidity.. In addition to traditional core deposits, such as demand deposit accounts, interest checking, money market savings and certificates of deposits, we utilize or in the past have utilized several noncore funding sources, such as brokered certificates of deposit, Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) of Cincinnati advances, federal funds purchased and other sources. We utilize these noncore funding sources to fund the ongoing operations and growth of the Bank. The availability of these noncore funding sources is subject to broad economic conditions and to investor assessment of our financial strength and, as such, the cost of funds may fluctuate significantly and/or be restricted, thus impacting our net interest income, our immediate liquidity and/or our access to additional liquidity.. Our risk management framework may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss to us.. We are subject to numerous risks, including credit risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk, transaction/operational risk, compliance and legal risk, strategic risk and reputation risk, among other risks encountered in the ordinary course of our operations. We have put in place processes and procedures designed to identify, measure, monitor, report and analyze these risks. However, all risk management frameworks are inherently limited when current procedures cannot anticipate the existence or future development of currently unanticipated or unknown risks, and we may have underestimated the impact of known risks. Accordingly, we could suffer losses as a result of our failure to properly anticipate and manage these risks.. A failure or breach of our operational or security systems, including as a result of cyber-attacks, could disrupt our business, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation and create significant financial and legal exposure for us.. Our computer systems and network infrastructure are subject to security risks and could be susceptible to cyber-attacks, such as denial of service attacks, hacking, terrorist activities or identity theft. Financial services institutions and companies engaged in data processing have reported breaches in the security of their websites or other systems, some of which have involved sophisticated and targeted attacks intended to obtain unauthorized access to confidential information, destroy data, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems, often through the introduction of computer viruses or malware, cyber-attacks and other means. Denial of service attacks have been launched against a number of financial services institutions. These denial of service attacks have not breached our data security systems, but require substantial resources to defend, and may affect customer satisfaction and behavior.. Despite efforts to ensure the integrity of our systems, we may not be able to anticipate all security breaches of these types, nor may we be able to implement guaranteed preventive measures against such security breaches. Persistent attackers may succeed in penetrating defenses given enough resources, time, and motive. The techniques used by cyber criminals change frequently, may not be recognized until launched and can originate from a wide variety of sources, including outside groups such as external service providers, organized crime affiliates, terrorist organizations or hostile foreign governments. These risks may increase in the future as we continue to increase our mobile-payment and other internet-based product offerings and expand our internal usage of web-based products and application.. Page 18. Table of Contents. A successful penetration or circumvention of system security could cause us serious negative consequences, including significant disruption of operations, misappropriation of confidential information, or damage to our computers or systems or those of our customers and counterparties. A successful security breach could result in violations of applicable privacy and other laws, financial loss to us or to our customers, loss of confidence in our security measures, significant litigation exposure, and harm to our reputation, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company.. We rely on third parties to provide key components of our business infrastructure.. We rely on third-party service providers to leverage subject matter expertise and industry best practice, provide enhanced products and services, and reduce costs. Although there are benefits in entering into third-party relationships with vendors and others, there are risks associated with such activities. When entering a third-party relationship, the risks associated with that activity are not passed to the third-party but remain our responsibility. Increased risk could occur based on poor planning, oversight, control, and inferior performance or service on the part of the third party, and may result in legal costs or loss of business. Any problems caused by third-party service providers could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and to conduct our business. Replacing a third-party service provider could also take a long period of time and result in increased expenses.. We continually encounter technological change, and we may have fewer resources than many of our competitors to continue to invest in technological improvements.. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology will increase efficiency and will enable financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our clients by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy client demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our clients.. Impairment of goodwill and/or intangible assets could require charges to earnings, which could result in a negative impact on our results of operations.. A significant and sustained decline in our stock price and market capitalization, a significant decline in our expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate, slower growth rates or other factors could result in future impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets. At December 31, 2017, our goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets totaled approximately $4.2 million. If we were to conclude that a future write-down of our goodwill or intangible assets is necessary, then we would record the appropriate charge to earnings, which could be materially adverse to our results of operations and financial position.. Our securities portfolio performance in difficult market conditions could have adverse effects on our results of operations.. Under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, we are required to review our investment portfolio periodically for the presence of other-than-temporary impairment of its securities, taking into consideration current market conditions, the extent and nature of change in fair value, issuer rating changes and trends, volatility of earnings, current analysts' evaluations, our intent to sell or determination that we will not be required to sell investments until a recovery of fair value, as well as other factors. Adverse developments with respect to one or more of the foregoing factors may require us to deem particular securities to be other-than-temporarily impaired, with the credit loss recognized as a charge to earnings. Subsequent valuations, in light of factors prevailing at that time, may result in significant changes in the values of these securities in future periods. Any of these factors could require us to recognize further impairments in the value of our securities portfolio, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. We are subject to environmental liability risk associated with our lending activities.. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, we may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and. Page 19. Table of Contents. may materially reduce the affected property's value or limit our ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our businesses may be adversely affected if we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees. Our success depends, in part, on our executive officers and other key personnel. The market for qualified individuals is highly competitive, and we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel or candidates to replace or succeed members of our senior management team or other key personnel. Our compensation practices are subject to review and oversight by the Federal Reserve, the FDIC and other regulators. As a banking institution, we may be subject to limitations on compensation practices, which may or may not affect our competitors, by the Federal Reserve, the FDIC or other regulators. These limitations could further affect our ability to attract and retain our executive officers and other key personnel.. Our future success is dependent on our ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive banking industry.. We face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors. Our future growth and success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in this highly competitive environment. To date, we have grown our business by focusing on our geographic market and emphasizing the high level of service and responsiveness desired by our customers. Many of our competitors offer products and services which we do not offer, and many have substantially greater resources, name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do, and smaller and newer competitors may also be more aggressive in terms of pricing loan and deposit products than us in order to obtain a larger share of the market. Some of the financial institutions and financial services organizations with which we compete are not subject to the same degree of regulation as is imposed on bank holding companies, federally insured state-chartered banks and national banks and federal savings banks. As a result, these non-bank competitors have certain advantages over us in accessing funding and in providing various services.. We also experience competition from a variety of institutions outside of our market area. Some of these institutions conduct business primarily over the Internet and may thus be able to realize certain cost savings and offer products and services at more favorable rates and with greater convenience to the customer.. Our accounting policies and methods impact how we report our financial condition and results of operations. Application of these policies and methods may require management to make estimates about matters that are uncertain.. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and reflect management's judgment of the most appropriate manner to report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which might be reasonable under the circumstances yet might result in our reporting materially different amounts than would have been reported under a different alternative. For a description of our significant accounting policies, see Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. These accounting policies are critical to presenting our financial condition and results of operations. They may require management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments about matters that are uncertain. Materially different amounts could be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions.. Changes in accounting standards could materially impact our consolidated financial statements.. Regulatory bodies, including the SEC and others, and the Financial Accounting Standards Board, from time to time may change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in changes to previously reported financial results, or a cumulative charge to retained earnings.. Page 20. Table of Contents. Our internal controls may be ineffective.. We regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures and corporate governance policies and procedures. As a result, we may incur increased costs to maintain and improve our controls and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls or procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. National or state legislation or regulation may increase our expenses and reduce earnings.. Federal bank regulators are increasing regulatory scrutiny, and additional restrictions (including those originating from the Dodd-Frank Act) on financial institutions have been proposed or adopted by regulators and by Congress. Changes in tax law, federal legislation, regulation or policies, such as bankruptcy laws, deposit insurance, consumer protection laws, and capital requirements, among others, can result in significant increases in our expenses and/or chargeoffs, which may adversely affect our earnings. Changes in state or federal tax laws or regulations can have a similar impact. Many state and municipal governments, including the Commonwealth of Kentucky, are under financial stress due to the economy. As a result, these governments could seek to increase their tax revenues through increased tax levies which could have a meaningful impact on our results of operations. Furthermore, financial institution regulatory agencies are expected to continue to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the continued issuance of additional formal or informal enforcement or supervisory actions. These actions, whether formal or informal, could result in our agreeing to limitations or to take actions that limit our operational flexibility, restrict our growth or increase our capital or liquidity levels. Failure to comply with any formal or informal regulatory restrictions, including informal supervisory actions, could lead to further regulatory enforcement actions. Negative developments in the financial services industry and the impact of recently enacted or new legislation in response to those developments could negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance. In addition, industry, legislative or regulatory developments may cause us to materially change our existing strategic direction, capital strategies, compensation or operating plans.. We may be adversely affected by further increases in FDIC insurance or special assessments.. The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC-insured depository institutions, such as the Bank, up to applicable limits. The amount of a particular institution's deposit insurance assessment is based on that institution's risk classification under an FDIC risk-based assessment system. An institution's risk classification is assigned based on its capital levels and the level of supervisory concern the institution poses to its regulators. Market developments have significantly depleted the Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF) of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. As a result of recent economic conditions and the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC has increased the deposit insurance assessment rates and thus raised deposit insurance premiums for insured depository institutions. If these increases are insufficient for the DIF to meet its funding requirements, there may need to be further special assessments or increases in deposit insurance premiums. We are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are additional bank or financial institution failures, we may be required to pay even higher premiums than the recently increased levels. Any future additional assessments, increases or required prepayments in FDIC insurance premiums may materially and adversely affect us, including by reducing our profitability or limiting our ability to pursue certain business opportunities.. Even though our common stock is currently traded on the NASDAQ Stock Market, it has less liquidity than many other stocks quoted on a national securities exchange.. The trading volume in our common stock has been relatively low when compared with larger companies listed on NASDAQ or other stock exchanges. We cannot say with any certainty that an active and liquid trading market for our common stock will develop. Because of this, it may be more difficult for stockholders to sell a substantial number of shares for the same price at which stockholders could sell a smaller number of shares. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of our common stock in the market, or the availability of shares of common stock for sale in the market, will have on the market price of our common stock. We can give no assurance that sales of substantial amounts of common stock in the market, or the potential for large amounts of sales in the market, would not cause the price of our common stock to decline or impair our future ability to raise capital through sales of our common stock.. Page 21. Table of Contents. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly, and may fluctuate in the future. These fluctuations may be unrelated to our performance. General market or industry price declines or overall market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price of our common stock, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices.. Our capital stock is subordinate to our existing and future indebtedness.. Our capital stock ranks junior to all of our existing and future indebtedness and other non-equity claims with respect to assets available to satisfy claims against us, including claims in the event of our liquidation. As of December 31, 2017, our total liabilities were approximately $420 million, and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future to increase our capital resources. Additionally, if our capital ratios or the capital ratios of the Bank fall below the required minimums, we or the Bank could be forced to raise additional capital by making additional offerings of debt securities.. We are a holding company and depend on our subsidiary bank for dividends, distributions and other payments.. We are a legal entity separate and distinct from our bank subsidiary. Our principal source of cash flow, including cash flow to pay dividends to our stockholders and principal and interest on our outstanding debt, is dividends from the Bank. There are statutory and regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends by the Bank to us, as well as by us to our stockholders. Regulations of both the Federal Reserve and the State of Kentucky affect the ability of the Bank to pay dividends and other distributions to us and to make loans to us. If the Bank is unable to make dividend payments to us and sufficient cash or liquidity is not otherwise available, we may not be able to make dividend payments to our common and preferred stockholders or principal and interest payments on our outstanding debt. In addition, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary's liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of creditors of that subsidiary, except to the extent that any of our claims as a creditor of such subsidiary may be recognized. As a result, shares of our capital stock are effectively subordinated to all existing and future liabilities and obligations of our subsidiaries.. We may not pay dividends on shares of our capital stock.. Holders of shares of our capital stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. We have declared cash dividends on our common stock sporadically; we are not required to do so.. We are subject to statutory and regulatory limitations on our ability to pay dividends on our capital stock. For example, it is the policy of the Federal Reserve that BHCs should generally pay dividends on common stock only out of earnings, and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organization's expected future needs, asset quality and financial condition. Further, if we are unable to satisfy the capital requirements applicable to us for any reason, we may be limited in our ability to declare and pay dividends on our capital stock.. We may need to raise additional debt or equity capital in the future, but may be unable to do so.. We may need to raise additional capital in the future to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and other business purposes. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on, among other things, prevailing conditions in the capital markets, which are outside of our control, and our financial performance. We cannot assure you that capital will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all.  An inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms when needed could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Page 22. Table of Contents"
