[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our operating results and financial condition have varied in the past and could in the future vary significantly depending on a number of factors. From time to time, information provided by us or statements made by our employees contain \"forward-looking\" information that involves risks and uncertainties. In particular, statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, and in the documents incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, that are not historical facts, including, but not limited to, statements concerning our strategy and operational and growth initiatives, our transition to a subscription-based business model, product development and offerings of solutions and services, market positioning, distribution and sales channels, our partners and other strategic or technology relationships, financial information and results of operations for future periods, competition, seasonal factors, stock-based compensation, licensing and subscription renewal programs, international operations and expansion, investment transactions and valuations of investments and derivative instruments, restructuring charges, reinvestment or repatriation of foreign earnings, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, tax estimates and other matters, stock repurchases, our debt, changes in accounting rules or guidance, changes in domestic and foreign economic conditions, delays or reductions in technology purchases, liquidity, litigation matters and intellectual property matters, constitute forward-looking statements and are made under the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These statements are neither promises nor guarantees. Our actual results of operations and financial condition could vary materially from those stated in any forward-looking statements. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, in the documents incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or presented elsewhere by our management from time to time. Such factors, among others, could have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations and financial condition. We caution readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which only speak as of the date made. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY. Our transition from a perpetual licenses to a subscription-based business model and from on-premises software to cloud-delivered services is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties.. The focus of our business model is shifting away from sales of perpetual licenses to sales of subscriptions. Additionally, we expect our customers will increasingly rely on our cloud-delivered services instead of on-premises deployments. This transition may give rise to a number of risks, including the following:. • we may not be able to implement effective go-to-market strategies and train or properly incentivize our sales team and channel partners in order to effectively market our subscription offerings;. • we may be unsuccessful in maintaining our target pricing, adoption and renewal rates;. • we may select solution prices that are not optimal and could negatively affect our sales or earnings;. • risks related to the timing of revenue recognition and potential reductions in cash flows in the near term;. • we may incur costs at a higher than forecasted rate as we expand our cloud-delivered services thereby decreasing our gross margins;. • we may not be able to meet customer demand or solution requirements for cloud-delivered services;. • customer concerns regarding changes to pricing, service availability, and security; and. • our cloud-delivered services are primarily operated through third party data centers, which we do not control and which may be vulnerable to damage, interruption and cyber-related risks.. Our subscription-based business model and expansion of our cloud-delivered services may also require a considerable investment in resources, including technical, financial, legal, sales, information technology and operation systems. Market acceptance of such offerings is affected by a variety of factors, including but not limited to: security, reliability, scalability, customization, performance, current license terms, customer preference, customer concerns with entrusting a third party to store and manage their data, public concerns regarding privacy and the enactment of restrictive laws or regulations.. In addition, the metrics we use to gauge the status of our business may evolve over the course of the transition as significant trends emerge. If we are unable to successfully establish our subscription-based business model or expand our cloud-delivered services, and navigate our transition in light of the foregoing risks and uncertainties, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be negatively impacted.. Our business could be adversely impacted by conditions affecting the information technology market.. The markets for our solutions and services are characterized by:. • rapid technological change;. 12. • evolving industry standards;. • fluctuations in customer demand;. • changing customer business models and increasingly sophisticated customer needs; and. • frequent new product and service introductions and enhancements.. The demand for our solutions and services depends substantially upon the general demand for business-related computer appliances and software, which fluctuates based on numerous factors, including capital spending levels, the spending levels and growth of our current and prospective customers, and general economic conditions. Moreover, the purchase of our solutions and services is often discretionary and may involve a significant commitment of capital and other resources. U.S. economic forecasts for the information technology, or IT, sector are uncertain and continue to highlight an industry in transition from legacy platforms to mobile, cloud, data analytics and social solutions. If our current and prospective customers cut costs, they may significantly reduce their information technology expenditures. Additionally, if our current and prospective customers shift their IT spending more rapidly towards newer technologies and solutions as mobile, cloud, data analytics and social platforms evolve, the demand for our solutions and services most aligned with legacy platforms (such as our desktop virtualization solutions) could decrease. Fluctuations in the demand for our solutions and services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We face intense competition, which could result in customer loss, fewer customer orders and reduced revenues and margins.. We sell our solutions and services in intensely competitive markets. Some of our competitors and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, sales and marketing and other resources than we do. We compete based on our ability to offer to our customers the most current and desired product and services features. We expect that competition will continue to be intense, and there is a risk that our competitors' products may be less costly, more heavily discounted or free, provide better performance or include additional features when compared to our solutions. Additionally, there is a risk that our solutions may become outdated or that our market share may erode. Further, the announcement of the release, and the actual release, of new solutions incorporating similar features to our solutions could cause our existing and potential customers to postpone or cancel plans to license certain of our existing and future product and service offerings. Existing or new solutions and services that provide alternatives to our solutions and services could materially impact our ability to compete in these markets. As the markets for our solutions and services, especially those solutions in early stages of development, continue to develop, additional companies, including companies with significant market presence in the computer hardware, software, cloud, networking, mobile, data sharing and related industries, could enter, or increase their footprint in, the markets in which we compete and further intensify competition. In addition, we believe price competition could become a more significant competitive factor in the future. As a result, we may not be able to maintain our historic prices and margins, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We expect to continue to face additional competition as new participants enter our markets and as our current competitors seek to increase market share. Further, we may see new and increased competition in different geographic regions. The generally low barriers to entry in certain of our businesses increase the potential for challenges from new industry competitors, whether small and medium sized businesses or larger, more established companies. Smaller companies new to our market may have more flexibility to develop on more agile platforms and have greater ability to adapt their strategies and cost structures, which may give them a competitive advantage with our current or prospective customers. We may also experience increased competition from new types of solutions as the options for Workspace Services, Networking products and Content Collaboration (formerly Data) offerings increase. Further, as our industry evolves and if our company grows, companies with which we have strategic alliances may become competitors in other product areas, or our current competitors may enter into new strategic relationships with new or existing competitors, all of which may further increase the competitive pressures we face.. A significant portion of our revenues historically has come from our Application Virtualization and VDI solutions and our Networking products, and decreases in sales for these solutions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. A significant portion of our revenues has historically come from our Application Virtualization and VDI solutions and Networking products. We continue to anticipate that sales of these solutions and products and related enhancements and upgrades will constitute a majority of our revenue for the near future. Declines and variability in sales of certain of these solutions and products could occur as a result of:. • new competitive product releases and updates to existing products delivered as on premises solutions, especially cloud-based products;. • industry trend to focus on the secure delivery of applications on mobile devices;. • introduction of new or alternative technologies, products or service offerings by third parties;. • termination or reduction of our product offerings and enhancements;. 13. • potential market saturation;. • failure to enter new markets;. • price and product competition resulting from rapid and frequent technological changes and customer needs;. • general economic conditions;. • complexities and cost in implementation;. • failure to deliver satisfactory technical support;. • dissatisfied customers; or. • lack of commercial success of our technology relationships.. We have experienced increased competition in the Application Virtualization and VDI business from directly competing solutions, alternative products and products on new platforms. For example, Amazon Web Services provides Amazon WorkSpaces and VMware provides Horizon, both of which compete with these offerings among numerous other competitors. Also, there continues to be an increase in the number of alternatives to Windows operating system powered desktops, in particular mobile devices such as smartphones and tablets. Users may increasingly turn to these devices to perform functions that would have been traditionally performed on desktops and laptops, which in turn may reduce the market for our Application Virtualization and VDI solutions. Further, increased use of certain SaaS applications may result in customers relying less on Windows applications. If sales of our Application Virtualization and VDI solutions decline as a result of these or other factors, our revenue would decrease and our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected.. Similarly, we have experienced increased competition for our Networking products, including our core Netscaler ADC solution. For example, there are an increasing number of alternatives to traditional ADC solutions, enabling our customers to build internal solutions, rely on open source technology or leverage cloud-based offerings. In addition, our Networking business generates a substantial portion of its revenues from a limited number of customers. As a result, if our Networking business loses certain customers or one or more such customers significantly decreases its orders, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. Recent changes in our support offerings could adversely impact our business.. We recently redefined our support offerings with the introduction of Citrix Customer Success Services and our customers are migrating to this new service offering. While this offering provides greater benefits to our customers, it results in a price increase. If customers do not adopt Customer Success Services, we may be unable to recoup or realize a reasonable return on our investment in this new service, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. In order to be successful, we must attract, engage, retain and integrate key employees and have adequate succession plans in place, and failure to do so could have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business.. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract, engage, retain, and integrate qualified executives and other key employees throughout all areas of our business. Identifying, developing internally or hiring externally, training and retaining highly-skilled managerial, technical, sales and services, finance and marketing personnel are critical to our future, and competition for experienced employees can be intense. In order to attract and retain executives and other key employees in a competitive marketplace, we must provide a competitive compensation package, including cash- and equity-based compensation. If we do not obtain the stockholder approval needed to continue granting equity compensation in a competitive manner, our ability to attract, retain, and motivate executives and key employees could be weakened. Failure to successfully hire executives and key employees or the loss of any executives and key employees could have a significant impact on our operations. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry is intense because of the limited number of people available with the necessary technical skills and understanding of solutions in our industry. The loss of services of any key personnel, the inability to retain and attract qualified personnel in the future or delays in hiring may harm our business and results of operations.. Effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. We recently experienced significant changes in our senior management team, including the appointment of David J. Henshall as our President and Chief Executive Officer in July 2017 and Mark Ferrer as our Executive Vice President and Chief Revenue Officer in October 2017. Further, we recently announced the appointment of Andrew Del Matto as our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, effective February 19, 2018. Failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. Further, changes in our management team may be disruptive to our business, and any failure to successfully integrate key new hires or promoted employees could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. 14. Industry volatility and consolidation may result in increased competition.. The industry has been volatile and there has been a trend toward industry consolidation in our markets for several years. We expect this trend to continue, especially in light of the increased availability of domestic cash resulting from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. In addition, we expect companies will attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving and volatile industry. For example, some of our competitors have made acquisitions or entered into partnerships or other strategic relationships to offer a more comprehensive solution than they had previously offered. Further, some companies are making plans or may be under pressure by stockholders to divest businesses and such divestitures may result in stronger competition. Additionally, as IT companies attempt to strengthen or maintain their market positions in the evolving workspace services, networking and data sharing markets, these companies continue to seek to deliver comprehensive IT solutions to end users and combine enterprise-level hardware and software solutions that may compete with our Workspace Services and Networking and Content Collaboration solutions. These consolidators or potential consolidators may have significantly greater financial, technical and other resources and brand loyalty than we do, and may be better positioned to acquire and offer complementary solutions and services. The companies resulting from these possible combinations may create more compelling product and service offerings and be able to offer greater pricing flexibility or sales and marketing support for such offerings than we can. These heightened competitive pressures could result in a loss of customers or a reduction in our revenues or revenue growth rates, all of which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our solutions and services or cyberattacks on our networks could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Use of our solutions and services may involve the transmission and/or storage of data, including in certain instances customers' business, financial and personally identifiable information. Thus, maintaining the security of our solutions, computer networks and data storage resources is important as security breaches could result in product or service vulnerabilities and loss of and/or unauthorized access to confidential information. We devote significant resources to addressing security vulnerabilities in our solutions and services through our efforts to engineer more secure solutions and services, enhance security and reliability features in our solutions and services, deploy security updates to address security vulnerabilities and seek to respond to known security incidents in sufficient time to minimize any potential adverse impact. Despite our efforts to build secure solutions, from time to time, we experience attacks and other cyber-threats. These attacks can seek to exploit, among other things, known or unknown vulnerabilities in technology included in our solutions and services. For example, in January 2018, vulnerabilities in certain microprocessors were publicly announced under the names Spectre and Meltdown. These vulnerabilities, despite our mitigation efforts, could render our internal systems, solutions and services susceptible to a cyberattack.. As we discover vulnerabilities in our solutions or underlying technology, our operations and our customers could be exposed to risk until such vulnerabilities are addressed. In addition, to the extent we are diverting our resources to address and mitigate these vulnerabilities, it may hinder our ability to deliver and support our solutions and customers in a timely manner. As a more general matter, unauthorized parties may attempt to misappropriate or compromise our confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions, product or service vulnerabilities or cause shutdowns. These perpetrators of cyberattacks also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, malware and other malicious software programs that directly or indirectly, for example, through a vendor or other third-party, attack our solutions, services or networks, or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our solutions, services and networks. Because techniques used by these perpetrators to sabotage or obtain unauthorized access to our systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until long after being launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. We can make no assurance that we will be able to detect, prevent, timely and adequately address, or mitigate the negative effects of cyberattacks or other security breaches.. A breach of our security measures as a result of third-party action, malware, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise could result in (among other consequences):. • interruption in the delivery of our cloud services;. • negative publicity and harm to our reputation or brand, which could lead some customers to seek to cancel subscriptions, stop using certain of our solutions or services, reduce or delay future purchases of our solutions or services, or use competing solutions or services;. • individual and/or class action lawsuits, which could result in financial judgments against us or the payment of settlement amounts, which would cause us to incur legal fees and costs;. • regulatory enforcement action under the General Data Protection Regulation or other legal authority, which could result in significant fines and/or penalties or other sanctions and which would cause us to incur legal fees and costs; and/or. • in the event that we or one of our customers were the victim of a cyberattack or other security breach, additional costs associated with responding to such breach, such as investigative and remediation costs, and the costs of providing data. 15. owners or others with notice of the breach, legal fees, costs of any additional fraud detection activities required by such customers' credit card issuers, and costs incurred by credit card issuers associated with the compromise and additional monitoring of systems for further fraudulent activity.. Any of these actions could materially adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Regulation of privacy and data security may adversely affect sales of our solutions and result in increased compliance costs.. We believe increased regulation is likely with respect to the solicitation, collection, processing or use of personal, financial and consumer information as regulatory authorities around the world are considering a number of legislative and regulatory proposals concerning data protection, privacy and data security. This includes the Global Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR, a new European Union-wide legal framework to govern data collection, use and sharing and related consumer privacy rights, which is expected to take effect in 2018. The GDPR includes significant penalties for non-compliance. In addition, the interpretation and application of consumer and data protection laws and industry standards in the United States, Europe and elsewhere are often uncertain and in flux. The application of existing laws to cloud-based solutions is particularly uncertain and cloud-based solutions may be subject to further regulation, the impact of which cannot be fully understood at this time. Moreover, it is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data and privacy practices. For example, although the GDPR will apply across the European Union without a need for local implementing legislation, local data protection authorities will still have the ability to interpret the GDPR through so-called opening clauses, which permit region-specific data protection legislation and have the potential to create inconsistencies on a country-by-country basis. In addition to the possibility of fines, application of these laws in a manner inconsistent with our data and privacy practices could result in an order requiring that we change our data and privacy practices, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Complying with these various laws could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. Also, any new regulation, or interpretation of existing regulation, imposing greater fees or taxes or restricting information exchange over the Web, could result in a decline in the use and adversely affect sales of our solutions and our results of operations. Finally, as a technology vendor, our customers will expect that we can demonstrate compliance with current data privacy and security regulation, and our inability to do so may adversely impact sales of our solutions and services to certain customers, particularly customers in highly-regulated industries.. Our solutions could contain errors that could delay the release of new products or that may not be detected until after our products are shipped.. Despite significant testing by us and by current and potential customers, our products, especially new products or releases or acquired products, could contain errors. In some cases, these errors may not be discovered until after commercial shipments have been made. Errors in our products could delay the development or release of new products and could adversely affect market acceptance of our products. Additionally, our products depend on third-party products, which could contain defects and could reduce the performance of our products or render them useless. Because our products are often used in mission-critical applications, errors in our products or the products of third parties upon which our products rely could give rise to warranty or other claims by our customers, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Certain of our offerings have sales cycles which are long and/or unpredictable which could cause significant variability and unpredictability in our revenue and operating results for any particular period.. Generally, a substantial portion of our large and medium-sized customers implement our Workspace Services solutions on a departmental or enterprise-wide basis. We have a long sales cycle for these departmental or enterprise-wide sales because:. • our sales force generally needs to explain and demonstrate the benefits of a large-scale deployment of our product to potential and existing customers prior to sale;. • our service personnel typically spend a significant amount of time assisting potential customers in their testing and evaluation of our solutions and services;. • our customers are typically large and medium size organizations that carefully research their technology needs and the many potential projects prior to making capital expenditures for software infrastructure; and. • before making a purchase, our potential customers usually must get approvals from various levels of decision makers within their organizations, and this process can be lengthy.. Our long sales cycle for these solutions makes it difficult to predict when these sales will occur, and we may not be able to sustain these sales on a predictable basis. In addition, the long sales cycle for these solutions makes it difficult to predict the quarter in which sales will occur. Delays in sales could cause significant variability in our revenue and operating results for any. 16. particular period, and large projects with significant IT components may fail to meet our customers' business requirements or be canceled before delivery, which likewise could adversely affect our revenue and operating results for any particular period.. Overall, the timing of our revenue is difficult to predict. Our quarterly sales have historically reflected an uneven pattern in which a disproportionate percentage of a quarter's total sales occur in the last month, weeks and days of each quarter. In addition, our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations and such fluctuations are generally most significant in our fourth fiscal quarter, which we believe is due to the impact on revenue from the availability (or lack thereof) in our customers' fiscal year budgets and an increase in expenses resulting from amounts paid pursuant to our sales compensation plans as performance milestones are often triggered in the fourth quarter. We believe that these seasonal factors are common within our industry. In addition, our European operations generally generate lower revenues in the summer months because of the generally reduced economic activity in Europe during the summer.. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain and further access large enterprise customers.. We must retain and continue to expand our ability to reach and access large enterprise customers by adding effective value-added distributors, or VADs, system integrators, or SIs, and other partners, as well as expanding our direct sales teams and consulting services. Our inability to attract and retain large enterprise customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Large enterprise customers usually request special pricing and purchase of multiple years of subscription and maintenance up-front and generally have longer sales cycles. By allowing these customers to purchase multiple years of subscription or maintenance up-front and by granting special pricing, such as bundled pricing or discounts, to these large customers, we may have to defer recognition of some or all of the revenue from such sales. This deferral, compounded with the longer sales cycles, could reduce our revenues and operating profits for a given reporting period and make revenues difficult to predict.. Changes to our licensing or subscription renewal programs, or bundling of our solutions, could negatively impact the timing of our recognition of revenue.. We continually re-evaluate our licensing programs and subscription renewal programs, including specific license models, delivery methods, and terms and conditions, to market our current and future solutions and services. We could implement new licensing programs and subscription renewal programs, including promotional trade-up programs or offering specified enhancements to our current and future product and service lines. Such changes could result in deferring revenue recognition until the specified enhancement is delivered or at the end of the contract term as opposed to upon the initial shipment or licensing of our software product. We could implement different licensing models in certain circumstances, for which we would recognize licensing fees over a longer period, including offering additional solutions in a SaaS model. Changes to our licensing programs and subscription renewal programs, including the timing of the release of enhancements, upgrades, maintenance releases, the term of the contract, discounts, promotions, auto-renewals and other factors, could impact the timing of the recognition of revenue for our solutions, related enhancements and services and could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. Further, we may be required to defer the recognition of revenue that we receive from the sale of certain bundled solutions if we have not established vendor specific objective evidence, or VSOE, for the undelivered elements in the arrangement in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, or GAAP. A delay in the recognition of revenue from sales of these bundled solutions may cause fluctuations in our quarterly financial results and may adversely affect our operating margins. Similarly, companies that we acquire may operate with different cost and margin structures, which could further cause fluctuations in our operating results and adversely affect our operating margins. Moreover, if our quarterly financial results or our predictions of future financial results fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, our stock price could be negatively affected.. Sales and renewals of our license updates and maintenance solutions constitute a large portion of our deferred revenue.. We anticipate that sales and renewals of our license updates and maintenance solutions will continue to constitute a substantial portion of our deferred revenue. Our ability to continue to generate both recognized and deferred revenue from our license updates and maintenance solutions will depend on our customers continuing to perceive value in automatic delivery of our software upgrades and enhancements. Further, our customers are migrating to our new maintenance service offering, Citrix Customer Success Services. While this offering provides greater benefits to our customers, it results in a price increase. We may experience a decrease in renewal rate due to the price increase and perceived value of Customer Success Services offerings. Additionally, a decrease in demand for our license updates and maintenance solutions could occur as a result of a decrease in demand for our Workspace Services, Networking and Content Collaboration solutions. If our customers do not continue to purchase our license updates and maintenance solutions, our deferred revenue would decrease significantly and our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected.. 17. We recently implemented a restructuring program, which we cannot guarantee will achieve its intended result.. We recently implemented a restructuring program, which we cannot guarantee will achieve its intended result. In October 2017, we announced the implementation of a restructuring program designed to increase our strategic focus and operational efficiency. It is anticipated that the aggregate total pre-tax restructuring charges for this program, which primarily relate to employee severance arrangements and consolidation of leased facilities, will be in the range of $60.0 million to $100.0 million. We cannot guarantee that we will achieve or sustain the targeted benefits under this restructuring program, or that the benefits, even if achieved, will be adequate to meet our long-term profitability expectations. Risks associated with this restructuring program also include additional unexpected costs, adverse effects on employee morale and the failure to meet operational and growth targets due to the loss of employees or outsourcing of roles, any of which may impair our ability to achieve anticipated results of operations or otherwise harm our business.. Adverse changes in general global economic conditions could adversely affect our operating results.. As a globally operated company, we are subject to the risks arising from adverse changes in global economic and market conditions. Economic uncertainty and volatility in our significant geographic locations may adversely affect sales of our solutions and services and may result in longer sales cycles, slower adoption of technologies and increased price competition. For example, if the U.S. or the European Union countries were to experience an economic downturn, these adverse economic conditions could contribute to a decline in our customers' spending on our solutions and services. Additionally, in response to economic uncertainty, we expect that many governmental organizations that are current or prospective customers for our solutions and services would cutback spending significantly, which would reduce the amount of government spending on IT and demand for our solutions and services from government organizations. Adverse economic conditions also may negatively impact our ability to obtain payment for outstanding debts owed to us by our customers or other parties with whom we do business.. Our international presence subjects us to additional risks that could harm our business.. We conduct significant sales and customer support, development and engineering operations in countries outside of the United States. During the year ended December 31, 2017, we derived 46.3% of our revenues from sales outside the United States. Potential growth and profitability could require us to further expand our international operations. To successfully maintain and expand international sales, we may need to establish additional foreign operations, hire additional personnel and recruit additional international resellers. Our international operations are subject to a variety of risks, which could adversely affect the results of our international operations. These risks include:. • compliance with foreign regulatory and market requirements;. • variability of foreign economic, political, labor conditions and global policy uncertainty (including the impact of the proposed exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union, commonly referred to as \"Brexit\");. • changing restrictions imposed by regulatory requirements, tariffs or other trade barriers or by U.S. export laws;. • regional data privacy laws that apply to the transmission of our customers' data across international borders;. • health or similar issues such as pandemic or epidemic;. • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations;. • longer accounts receivable payment cycles;. • potentially adverse tax consequences;. • difficulties in enforcing and protecting intellectual property rights;. • compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, including potential violations by acts of agents or other intermediaries;. • burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws; and. • as we generate cash flow in non-U.S. jurisdictions, if required, we may experience difficulty transferring such funds to the U.S. in a tax efficient manner.. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate and address these risks. We cannot guarantee that these or other factors will not adversely affect our business or results of operations.. We rely on indirect distribution channels and major distributors that we do not control.. We rely significantly on independent distributors and resellers to market and distribute our solutions and services. Our distributors generally sell through resellers. Our distributor and reseller base is relatively concentrated. We maintain and periodically revise our sales incentive programs for our independent distributors and resellers, and such program revisions may adversely impact our results of operations. Changes to our sales incentive programs can result from a number of factors, including our transition to a subscription-based business model. Our competitors may in some cases be effective in providing. 18. incentives to current or potential distributors and resellers to favor their products or to prevent or reduce sales of our solutions. The loss of or reduction in sales to our distributors or resellers could materially reduce our revenues. Further, we could maintain individually significant accounts receivable balances with certain distributors. The financial condition of our distributors could deteriorate and distributors could significantly delay or default on their payment obligations. Any significant delays, defaults or terminations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We are in the process of diversifying our base of channel relationships by adding and training more channel partners with abilities to reach larger enterprise customers and additional mid-market customers and to sell our newer solutions and services. We are also in the process of building relationships with new types of channel partners, such as systems integrators and service providers. In addition to this diversification of our partner base, we will need to maintain a healthy mix of channel members who service smaller customers. We may need to add and remove distribution partners to maintain customer satisfaction, support a steady adoption rate of our solutions, and align with our transition to a subscription-based business model, which could increase our operating expenses and adversely impact our go-to-market effectiveness. Through our Citrix Partner Network and other programs, we are currently investing, and intend to continue to invest, significant resources to develop these channels, which could adversely impact our results of operations if such channels do not result in increased revenues.. Our Networking business could suffer if there are any interruptions or delays in the supply of hardware or hardware components from our third-party sources.. We rely on a concentrated number of third-party suppliers, who provide hardware or hardware components for our Networking products, and contract manufacturers. If we are required to change suppliers, there could be a delay in the supply of our hardware or hardware components and our ability to meet the demands of our customers could be adversely affected, which could cause the loss of Networking sales and existing or potential customers and delayed revenue recognition and adversely affect our results of operations. While we have not, to date, experienced any material difficulties or delays in the manufacture and assembly of our Networking products, our suppliers may encounter problems during manufacturing due to a variety of reasons, including failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, failure to comply with applicable regulations, or the need to implement costly or time-consuming protocols to comply with applicable regulations (including regulations related to conflict minerals), equipment malfunction, natural disasters and environmental factors, any of which could delay or impede their ability to meet our demand.. We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which could adversely affect our future operating results.. Our results of operations are subject to fluctuations in exchange rates, which could adversely affect our future revenue and overall operating results. In order to minimize volatility in earnings associated with fluctuations in the value of foreign currency relative to the U.S. dollar, we use financial instruments to hedge our exposure to foreign currencies as we deem appropriate for a portion of our expenses, which are denominated in the local currency of our foreign subsidiaries. We generally initiate our hedging of currency exchange risks one year in advance of anticipated foreign currency expenses for those currencies to which we have the greatest exposure. When the dollar is weak, foreign currency denominated expenses will be higher, and these higher expenses will be partially offset by the gains realized from our hedging contracts. If the dollar is strong, foreign currency denominated expenses will be lower. These lower expenses will in turn be partially offset by the losses incurred from our hedging contracts. There is a risk that there will be fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates beyond the one year timeframe for which we hedge our risk and there is no guarantee that we will accurately forecast the expenses we are hedging. Further, a substantial portion of our overseas assets and liabilities are denominated in local currencies. To protect against fluctuations in earnings caused by changes in currency exchange rates when remeasuring our balance sheet, we utilize foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge our exposure to this potential volatility. There is no assurance that our hedging strategies will be effective. In addition, as a result of entering into these contracts with counterparties who are unrelated to us, the risk of a counterparty default exists in fulfilling the hedge contract. Should there be a counterparty default, we could be unable to recover anticipated net gains from the transactions.. RISKS RELATED TO ACQUISITIONS, STRATEGIC RELATIONSHIPS AND DIVESTITURES. Acquisitions and divestitures present many risks, and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals we anticipate.. In recent years, we have addressed the development of new solutions and services and enhancements to existing solutions and services through acquisitions of other companies, product lines and/or technologies. However, acquisitions, including those of high-technology companies, are inherently risky. We cannot provide any assurance that any of our acquisitions or future. 19. acquisitions will be successful in helping us reach our financial and strategic goals. The risks we commonly encounter in undertaking, managing and integrating acquisitions are:. • an uncertain revenue and earnings stream from the acquired company, which could dilute our earnings;. • difficulties and delays integrating the personnel, operations, technologies, solutions and systems of the acquired companies;. • undetected errors or unauthorized use of a third-party's code in solutions of the acquired companies;. • our ongoing business may be disrupted and our management's attention may be diverted by acquisition, transition or integration activities;. • challenges with implementing adequate and appropriate controls, procedures and policies in the acquired business;. • difficulties managing or integrating an acquired company's technologies or lines of business;. • potential difficulties in completing projects associated with purchased in-process research and development;. • entry into markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors have stronger market positions and which are highly competitive;. • the potential loss of key employees of the acquired company;. • potential difficulties integrating the acquired solutions and services into our sales channel;. • assuming pre-existing contractual relationships of an acquired company that we would not have otherwise entered into, the termination or modification of which may be costly or disruptive to our business;. • being subject to unfavorable revenue recognition or other accounting treatment as a result of an acquired company's practices; and. • intellectual property claims or disputes.. Our failure to successfully integrate acquired companies due to these or other factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Any future divestitures we make may also involve risks and uncertainties. Any such divestitures could result in disruption to other parts of our business, potential loss of employees or customers, exposure to unanticipated liabilities or result in ongoing obligations and liabilities to us following any such divestiture. For example, in connection with a divestiture, we may enter into transition services agreements or other strategic relationships, including long-term services arrangements, or agree to provide certain indemnities to the purchaser in any such transaction, which may result in additional expense. Further, if we do not realize the expected benefits or synergies of such transactions, our operating results and financial conditions could be adversely affected.. If we determine that any of our goodwill or intangible assets, including technology purchased in acquisitions, are impaired, we would be required to take a charge to earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. We have a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets, such as product related intangible assets, from our acquisitions. We do not amortize goodwill and intangible assets that are deemed to have indefinite lives. However, we do amortize certain product related technologies, trademarks, patents and other intangibles and we periodically evaluate them for impairment. We review goodwill for impairment annually, or sooner if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount could exceed fair value, at the reporting unit level, which for us also represents our operating segments. Significant judgments are required to estimate the fair value of our goodwill and intangible assets, including estimating future cash flows, determining appropriate discount rates, estimating the applicable tax rates, foreign exchange rates and interest rates, projecting the future industry trends and market conditions, and making other assumptions. Although we believe the assumptions, judgments and estimates we have made have been reasonable and appropriate, different assumptions, judgments and estimates, materially affect our results of operations. Changes in these estimates and assumptions, including changes in our reporting structure, could materially affect our determinations of fair value. In addition, due to uncertain market conditions and potential changes in our strategy and product portfolio, it is possible that the forecasts we use to support our goodwill and other intangible assets could change in the future, which could result in non-cash charges that would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Also, we may make divestitures of businesses in the future. If we determine that any of the intangible assets associated with our acquisitions is impaired or goodwill is impaired, then we would be required to reduce the value of those assets or to write them off completely by taking a charge to current earnings. If we are required to write down or write off all or a portion of those assets, or if financial analysts or investors believe we may need to take such action in the future, our stock price and operating results could be materially and adversely affected.. Our inability to maintain or develop our strategic and technology relationships could adversely affect our business.. We have several strategic and technology relationships with large and complex organizations, such as Microsoft, and other companies with which we work to offer complementary solutions and services. We depend on the companies with which we have strategic relationships to successfully test our solutions, to incorporate our technology into their products and to market and sell those solutions. There can be no assurance we will realize the expected benefits from these strategic. 20. relationships or that they will continue in the future. If successful, these relationships may be mutually beneficial and result in industry growth. However, such relationships carry an element of risk because, in most cases, we must compete in some business areas with a company with which we have a strategic relationship and, at the same time, cooperate with that company in other business areas. Also, if these companies fail to perform or if these relationships fail to materialize as expected, we could suffer delays in product development, reduced sales or other operational difficulties and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. The separation of our GoTo Business and the subsequent merger of GetGo, Inc. could result in substantial tax liability.. In January 2017, we closed the divestiture of the GoTo Business via a \"Reverse Morris Trust\" transaction pursuant to which a wholly-owned subsidiary of LogMeIn, Inc. merged with and into GetGo, Inc., with GetGo surviving the merger and becoming a wholly-owned subsidiary of LogMeIn, Inc. The Reverse Morris Trust transaction was structured to qualify as tax-free to Citrix and its shareholders. We obtained an opinion of outside counsel that, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the separation of the GoTo Business qualified, for both the company and our stockholders, as tax-free, and the subsequent merger of GetGo with a wholly-owned subsidiary of LogMeIn would not render the separation of the GoTo Business taxable to Citrix and its shareholders. The opinion of outside counsel was based, among other things, on various factual assumptions we have authorized and representations we, GetGo and LogMeIn have made to outside counsel. If any of these assumptions or representations are, or become, inaccurate or incomplete, reliance on the opinion may be affected. An opinion of outside counsel represents their legal judgment but is not binding on the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, or any court. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not challenge the conclusions reflected in the opinions or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. If the separation or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation are determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we and/or our stockholders that are subject to U.S. federal income tax could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities.. RISKS RELATED TO INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND BRAND RECOGNITION. Our efforts to protect our intellectual property may not be successful, which could materially and adversely affect our business.. We rely primarily on a combination of copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our source code, innovations and other intellectual property, all of which offer only limited protection. The loss of any material trade secret, trademark, tradename, patent or copyright could have a material adverse effect on our business. Despite our precautions, it could be possible for unauthorized third parties to infringe our intellectual property rights or misappropriate, copy, disclose or reverse engineer our proprietary information, including certain portions of our solutions or to otherwise obtain and use our proprietary source code. We may seek to protect our intellectual property through offensive litigation, which may be costly, trigger counter suits and may be unsuccessful. In addition, our ability to monitor and control such misappropriation or infringement is uncertain, particularly in countries outside of the United States. If we cannot protect our intellectual property from infringement and our proprietary source code against unauthorized copying, disclosure or use, loss of our market share could result, including as a result of unauthorized third parties' development of solutions and technologies similar to or better than ours.. The scope of our patent protection may be affected by changes in legal precedent and patent office interpretation of these precedents. Further, any patents owned by us could be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. Any of our pending or future patent applications, whether or not being currently challenged, may not be issued with the scope of protection we seek, if at all; and if issued, may not provide any meaningful protection or competitive advantage.. Our ability to protect our proprietary rights could be affected by differences in international law and the enforceability of licenses. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as do the laws of the United States and Canada. For example, we derive a significant portion of our sales from licensing our solutions under \"click-to-accept\" license agreements that are not signed by licensees and through electronic enterprise customer licensing arrangements that are delivered electronically, all of which could be unenforceable under the laws of many foreign jurisdictions in which we license our solutions. Moreover, with respect to the various confidentiality, license or other agreements we utilize with third parties related to their use of our solutions and technologies, there is no guarantee that such parties will abide by the terms of such agreements.. 21. Our solutions and services, including solutions obtained through acquisitions, could infringe third-party intellectual property rights, which could result in material litigation costs.. We are routinely subject to patent infringement claims and may in the future be subject to an increased number of claims, including claims alleging the unauthorized use of a third-party's code in our solutions. This may occur for a variety of reasons, including:. • the expansion of our product lines through product development and acquisitions;. • the volume of patent infringement litigation commenced by non-practicing entities;. • an increase in the number of competitors in our industry segments and the resulting increase in the number of related solutions and services and the overlap in the functionality of those solutions and services;. • an increase in the number of our competitors and third parties that use their own intellectual property rights to limit our freedom to operate and exploit our solutions, or to otherwise block us from taking full advantage of our markets;. • our solutions and services may rely on the technology of others and, therefore, require us to obtain intellectual property licenses from third parties in order for us to commercialize our solutions or services and we may not be able to obtain or continue to obtain licenses from these third parties on reasonable terms; and. • the unauthorized or improperly licensed use of third-party code in our solutions.. Further, responding to any infringement claim, regardless of its validity or merit, could result in costly litigation. Further, intellectual property litigation could compel us to do one or more of the following:. • pay damages (including the potential for treble damages), license fees or royalties (including royalties for past periods) to the party claiming infringement;. • cease selling solutions or services that use the challenged intellectual property;. • obtain a license from the owner of the asserted intellectual property to sell or use the relevant technology, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all; or. • redesign the challenged technology, which could be time consuming and costly, or not be accomplished.. If we were compelled to take any of these actions, our business, results of operations or financial condition may be adversely impacted.. Our use of \"open source\" software could negatively impact our ability to sell our solutions and subject us to possible litigation.. The solutions or technologies acquired, licensed or developed by us may incorporate so-called \"open source\" software, and we may incorporate open source software into other solutions in the future. Such open source software is generally licensed by its authors or other third parties under open source licenses, including, for example, the GNU General Public License, the GNU Lesser General Public License, \"Apache-style\" licenses, \"Berkeley Software Distribution,\" \"BSD-style\" licenses, and other open source licenses. Even though we attempt to monitor our use of open source software in an effort to avoid subjecting our solutions to conditions we do not intend, it is possible that not all instances of our open source code usage are properly reviewed. Further, although we believe that we have complied with our obligations under the various applicable licenses for open source software that we use such that we have not triggered any of these conditions, there is little or no legal precedent governing the interpretation or enforcement of many of the terms of these types of licenses. If an author or other third party that distributes open source software were to allege that we had not complied with the conditions of one or more of these licenses, we could be required to incur significant legal expenses defending against such allegations. If our defenses were not successful, we could be subject to significant damages, enjoined from the distribution of our solutions that contained open source software, and required to comply with the terms of the applicable license, which could disrupt the distribution and sale of some of our solutions. In addition, if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in an unintended manner, under some open source licenses we could be required to publicly release the source code of our proprietary software, offer our solutions that use the open source software for no cost, make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon incorporating or using the open source software, and/or license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of the particular open source license.. In addition to risks related to license requirements, usage of open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide technology support, maintenance, warranties or assurance of title or controls on the origin of the software.. If we lose access to third-party licenses, releases of our solutions could be delayed.. We believe that we will continue to rely, in part, on third-party licenses to enhance and differentiate our solutions. Third-party licensing arrangements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including:. 22. • undetected errors or unauthorized use of another person's code in the third party's software;. • disagreement over the scope of the license and other key terms, such as royalties payable and indemnification protection;. • infringement actions brought by third-parties;. • that third parties will create solutions that directly compete with our solutions; and. • termination or expiration of the license.. If we lose or are unable to maintain any of these third-party licenses or are required to modify software obtained under third-party licenses, it could delay the release of our solutions. Any delays could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our business depends on maintaining and protecting the strength of our collection of brands.. The Citrix product and service brands that we have developed have significantly contributed to the success of our business. Maintaining and enhancing the Citrix product and service brands is critical to expanding our base of customers and partners. We may be subject to reputational risks and our brand loyalty may decline if others adopt the same or confusingly similar marks in an effort to misappropriate and profit on our brand name and do not provide the same level of quality as is delivered by our solutions and services. Also, others may rely on false comparative advertising and customers or potential customers could be influenced by false advertising. Additionally, we may be unable to use some of our brands in certain countries or unable to secure trademark rights in certain jurisdictions where we do business. In order to police, maintain, enhance and protect our brands, we may be required to make substantial investments that may not be successful. If we fail to police, maintain, enhance and protect the Citrix brands, if we incur excessive expenses in this effort or if customers or potential customers are confused by others' trademarks, our business, operating results, and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK, OUR DEBT AND EXTERNAL FACTORS. Servicing our debt will require a significant amount of cash, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not have sufficient cash flow from our business to make payments on our debt, settle conversions of our Convertible Notes or repurchase our Convertible Notes or 2027 Notes upon certain events.. We have aggregate indebtedness of approximately $2.13 billion that we have incurred in connection with the issuance of our unsecured senior notes due December 1, 2027, or the 2027 Notes, and our 0.500% Convertible Notes due 2019, or the Convertible Notes, and under our Credit Agreement, and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future. Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, to pay interest on or to refinance our indebtedness, depends on our future performance, which is subject to general economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to service our debt and to make necessary capital expenditures. If we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, reducing capital expenditures, restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity or debt financing on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. We may not be able to sell assets, restructure our indebtedness or obtain additional equity or debt financing on terms that are acceptable to us or at all, which could result in a default on our debt obligations. See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates\" and Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 for information regarding our 2027 Notes, our Convertible Notes and our Credit Facility.. In addition, holders of our Convertible Notes have the right to require us to repurchase their Convertible Notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change at a fundamental change repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Convertible Notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. If a change in control repurchase event occurs with respect to the 2027 Notes, we will be required, subject to certain exceptions, to offer to repurchase the 2027 Notes at a repurchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the 2027 Notes repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. Further, upon conversion of the Convertible Notes, we will be required to make cash payments for each $1,000 in principal amount of Convertible Notes converted of at least the lesser of $1,000 and the sum of the daily conversion values thereunder. In such events, we may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing to repurchase the Convertible Notes or 2027 Notes or make cash payments upon conversion of the Convertible Notes. In addition, our ability to repurchase the Convertible Notes or 2027 Notes or to pay cash upon conversion of the Convertible Notes may be limited by law, by regulatory authority or by agreements governing our other indebtedness.. Further, we are required to comply with the covenants set forth in the indenture governing the Convertible Notes, the indenture governing the 2027 Notes and the Credit Agreement. In particular, the Credit Agreement requires us to maintain certain leverage and interest ratios and contains various affirmative and negative covenants, including covenants that limit or. 23. restrict our ability to grant liens, merge or consolidate, dispose of all or substantially all of our assets, change our business or incur subsidiary indebtedness. The indenture governing our 2027 Notes contains covenants limiting our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to create certain liens, enter into certain sale and leaseback transactions, and consolidate or merge with, or sell, assign, convey, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets, taken as a whole, to, another person. If we fail to comply with these covenants or any other provision of the agreements governing our indebtedness and do not obtain a waiver from the lenders or noteholders, then, subject to applicable cure periods, our outstanding indebtedness may be declared immediately due and payable. Additionally, a default under an indenture or the Credit Agreement could lead to a default under the other agreements governing our current and any future indebtedness. If the repayment of the related indebtedness were to be accelerated, we may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing to repay the indebtedness.. Our indebtedness, combined with our other financial obligations and contractual commitments, could have other important consequences. For example, it could:. • make us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general U.S. and worldwide economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation;. • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry;. • place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors who have less debt; and. • limit our ability to borrow additional amounts to fund acquisitions, for working capital and for other general corporate purposes.. Any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we incur additional indebtedness, the risks related to our business and our ability to service or repay our indebtedness would increase. Also, changes by any rating agency to our credit rating may negatively impact the value and liquidity of both our debt and equity securities, as well as the potential costs associated with any potential refinancing of our indebtedness. Downgrades in our credit rating could also restrict our ability to obtain additional financing in the future and could affect the terms of any such financing.. The conditional conversion feature of our Convertible Notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. In the event the conditional conversion feature of our Convertible Notes is triggered, holders of the Convertible Notes will be entitled to convert the Convertible Notes at any time during specified periods at their option. If one or more holders elect to convert their Convertible Notes, we would be required to settle the principal amount in cash and the remaining amount, if any, in shares of our common stock or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock, at our election. Our payment of cash upon settlement of conversion of the Convertible Notes could adversely affect our liquidity. In addition, even if holders do not elect to convert their Convertible Notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the Convertible Notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which would result in a material reduction in our net working capital.. The accounting method for convertible debt securities that may be settled in cash, such as the Convertible Notes, could have a material effect on our reported financial results.. Under FASB Accounting Standards Codification 470-20, Debt with Conversion and Other Options, or ASC 470-20, an entity must separately account for the liability and equity components of the convertible debt instruments (such as the Convertible Notes) that may be settled entirely or partially in cash upon conversion in a manner that reflects the issuer's economic interest cost. The effect of ASC 470-20 on the accounting for the Convertible Notes is that the equity component is required to be included in the additional paid-in capital section of stockholders' equity on our consolidated balance sheet, and the value of the equity component would be treated as original issue discount for purposes of accounting for the debt component of the Convertible Notes, which will result in non-cash charges to interest expense in our consolidated statement of income. As a result, we will report lower net income in our financial results as reported in accordance with U.S. GAAP because ASC 470-20 will require interest to include both the current period's amortization of the debt discount and the instrument's coupon interest, which could adversely affect our reported or future financial results.. In addition, under certain circumstances, convertible debt instruments (such as the Convertible Notes) that may be settled entirely or partly in cash are currently accounted for utilizing the treasury stock method, the effect of which is that the shares issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Notes are not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share except to the extent that the conversion value of the Convertible Notes exceeds their principal amount. Under the treasury stock method, for diluted earnings per share purposes, the transaction is accounted for as if the number of shares of common stock that would be necessary to settle such excess, if we elected to settle such excess in shares, are issued. We cannot be sure that the accounting standards in the future will continue to permit the use of the treasury stock method. If we are unable to use the treasury stock method in accounting for the shares issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Notes, then our diluted earnings per share. 24. would be adversely affected. Moreover, the warrants that we issued in connection with the pricing of the Convertible Notes would need to be included in the number of diluted shares reported if our stock price increases above the relevant exercise price on an average basis during the applicable period, which would negatively impact our diluted earnings per share.. Our portfolios of liquid securities and strategic investments may lose value or become impaired.. Our investment portfolio consists of agency securities, corporate securities, money market funds, municipal securities, government securities and commercial paper. Although we follow an established investment policy and seek to minimize the credit risk associated with investments by investing primarily in investment grade, highly liquid securities and by limiting exposure to any one issuer depending on credit quality, we cannot give assurances that the assets in our investment portfolio will not lose value, become impaired, or suffer from illiquidity.. Changes in our tax rates or our exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our operating results and financial condition.. Our future effective tax rates could be favorably or unfavorably affected by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, the geographic mix of our revenue, or by changes in tax laws or their interpretation. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by tax authorities, including the IRS. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance, however, that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Additionally, we need to comply with the recently enacted Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, or the 2017 Tax Act, as well as new, evolving or revised tax laws and regulations globally, and any changes in the application or interpretation of these regulations may have an adverse effect on our business or on our results of operations.. The 2017 Tax Act significantly revised the U.S. tax code by, in part but not limited to, reducing the U.S. corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% and imposing a mandatory one-time transition tax on certain un-repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries. The SEC staff acknowledged the challenges companies face incorporating the effects of tax reform by their financial reporting deadlines. In response, on December 22, 2017, the SEC staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118, or SAB 118, to address the application of U.S. GAAP in situations when a registrant does not have the necessary information available, prepared, or analyzed in reasonable detail to complete accounting for certain income tax effects of the 2017 Tax Act. As of December 31, 2017, we recorded a provisional income tax charge of $64.8 million for the re-measurement of our U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities because of the federal corporate maximum tax rate reduction. We also recorded a provisional income tax charge of $364.6 million for the transition tax on deemed repatriation of deferred foreign income. The provisional amounts recorded are based on our current interpretation and understanding of the 2017 Tax Act, are judgmental and may change as we receive additional clarification and implementation guidance. We will continue to gather and evaluate the income tax impact of the 2017 Tax Act. Changes to these provisional amounts or any of our other estimates regarding taxes could result in material charges or credits in future reporting periods.. There can be no assurance that we will continue to repurchase stock or that we will repurchase stock at favorable prices.. From time to time, our Board of Directors authorizes additional share repurchase authority under our ongoing stock repurchase program, including, most recently, a $1.7 billion increase in repurchase authority in November 2017. The amount and timing of stock repurchases are subject to capital availability and our determination that stock repurchases are in the best interest of our stockholders and are in compliance with all respective laws and our agreements applicable to repurchases of stock. Our ability to repurchase stock will depend upon, among other factors, our cash balances and potential future capital requirements for strategic transactions, debt service, capital expenditures, working capital and other general corporate purposes, as well as our results of operations, financial condition and other factors that we may deem relevant. A reduction in, or the completion of, our stock repurchase program could have a negative effect on our stock price. We can provide no assurance that we will repurchase stock at favorable prices, if at all.. Our stock price could be volatile, particularly during times of economic uncertainty and volatility in domestic and international stock markets, and you could lose the value of your investment.. Our stock price has been volatile and has fluctuated significantly in the past. The trading price of our stock is likely to continue to be volatile and subject to fluctuations in the future. Your investment in our stock could lose some or all of its value. Some of the factors that could significantly affect the market price of our stock include:. • actual or anticipated variations in operating and financial results; analyst reports or recommendations;. • rumors, announcements, or press articles regarding our or our competitors' operations, management, organization, financial condition, or financial statements; and. • other events or factors, many of which are beyond our control.. 25. The stock market in general, The Nasdaq Global Select Market, and the market for software companies and technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations have often been unrelated or disproportionate to operating performance. These fluctuations may continue in the future and this could materially and adversely affect the market price of our stock, regardless of operating performance.. Changes or modifications in financial accounting standards may have a material adverse impact on our reported results of operations or financial condition.. A change or modification in accounting policies can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective, including the potential impact of the adoption and implementation of the accounting standard update on revenue recognition issued in May 2014 by the Financial Accounting Standards Board. Under the new standard, we will recognize term license revenues upfront at time of delivery rather than ratably over the related contract period. We expect revenue recognition related to perpetual software, hardware, cloud offerings and professional services to remain substantially unchanged. Additionally, under the new standard, we will capitalize and amortize certain direct costs, such as commissions, over the expected customer life rather than expensing them as incurred. While the adoption of the new standard does not change the cash flows received from our contracts with customers, its adoption could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. Refer to Note 18 in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information on the new standard and its potential impact on us. New pronouncements and varying interpretations of existing pronouncements have occurred with frequency and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules, or changes to the interpretations of existing rules, could lead to changes in our accounting practices, and such changes could materially adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business.. Natural disasters or other unanticipated catastrophes that result in a disruption of our operations could negatively impact our results of operations.. Our worldwide operations are dependent on our network infrastructure, internal technology systems and website. Significant portions of our computer equipment, intellectual property resources and personnel, including critical resources dedicated to research and development and administrative support functions are presently located at our corporate headquarters in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, an area of the country that is particularly prone to hurricanes, and at our various locations in California, an area of the country that is particularly prone to earthquakes. We also have operations in various domestic and international locations that expose us to additional diverse risks. The occurrence of natural disasters, such as hurricanes, floods or earthquakes, or other unanticipated catastrophes, such as telecommunications failures, cyber-attacks, fires or terrorist attacks, at any of the locations in which we or our key partners, suppliers and customers do business, could cause interruptions in our operations. For example, hurricanes have passed through southern Florida causing extensive damage to the region. In addition, even in the absence of direct damage to our operations, large disasters, terrorist attacks or other casualty events could have a significant impact on our partners', suppliers' and customers' businesses, which in turn could result in a negative impact on our results of operations. Extensive or multiple disruptions in our operations, or our partners', suppliers' or customers' businesses, due to natural disasters or other unanticipated catastrophes could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. 26"
