[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. Our business faces a number of risks. The risks described below are items of most concern to us, however these are not all of the risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impact our business operations.. Reductions or changes in Medicaid funding or changes in budgetary priorities by the federal, state and local governments that pay for our services could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profitability.. We currently derive approximately 89% of our revenue from contracts with state and local governments. These governmental payors fund a significant portion of their payments to us through Medicaid, a joint federal and state health insurance program through which state expenditures are matched by federal funds typically ranging from 50% to approximately 75% of total costs, a number based largely on a state's per capita income. Our revenue, therefore, is largely determined by the level of federal, state and local governmental spending for the services we provide.. Recent efforts at the federal level to reduce the federal budget deficit, repeal and/or replace the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and/or restructure the Medicaid program pose risk for significant reductions in federal Medicaid matching funds to state governments. Such efforts could include proposals to provide states with more flexibility to determine Medicaid benefits, eligibility or provider payments through the use of block grants, per capita caps or streamlined waiver approvals, as well as those that would reduce the amount of federal Medicaid matching funding available to states by curtailing the use of provider taxes or by adjusting the Federal Medical Assistance Percentage (FMAP). Furthermore, any new Medicaid-funded benefits and requirements established by Congress, particularly those included in the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, and the rules and regulations thereunder, that mandate certain uses for Medicaid funds could have the effect of diverting those funds from the services we provide.. Budgetary pressures, a decline in tax revenue, as well as other economic, industry, and political factors, could cause state governments to limit spending, which could significantly reduce our revenue, referrals, margins and profitability, and adversely affect our growth strategy. Governmental agencies generally condition their contracts with us upon a sufficient budgetary appropriation. If a government agency does not receive an appropriation sufficient to cover its contractual obligations with us, it may terminate a contract or defer or reduce our reimbursement. There is also risk that previously appropriated funds could be reduced through subsequent legislation. In the past, certain states in which we operate, including Minnesota, California, Florida, Indiana, Arizona, and West Virginia implemented rate reductions, rate freezes and service reductions in response to state budgetary deficits. Delays in payment caused by a decline in tax revenue could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, liquidity and financial condition. In the event that our payors or other counterparties are financially unstable or delay payments to us, our financial condition could be impaired. Similarly, programmatic changes such as conversions to managed care with related contract demands regarding billing and services, unbundling of services, governmental efforts to increase consumer autonomy and reduce provider oversight, coverage and other changes under state Medicaid plans, may cause unanticipated costs and risks to our service delivery. The loss or reduction of or changes to reimbursement under our contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. Our variable cost structure is directly related to our labor costs, which may be adversely affected by labor shortages, a deterioration in labor relations, increased unionization activities or mandated wage increases.. Our variable cost structure and operating profitability are directly related to our labor costs. Labor costs may be adversely affected by a variety of factors, including employee turnover, a limited supply of qualified personnel in any geographic area, local competitive forces, ineffective utilization of our labor force, increases in minimum wages or the need to increase wages to remain competitive, health care costs and other personnel costs, and adverse changes in our service models.. 12. Table of Contents. We typically cannot recover our increased labor costs from payors and must absorb them ourselves. We have incurred higher labor costs in certain markets from time to time because of difficulty in hiring qualified direct support professionals. These higher labor costs have resulted from increased wages and overtime and the costs associated with recruitment and retention, training programs and use of temporary staffing personnel. In part to help with the challenge of recruiting and retaining direct support professionals, we offer these employees a benefits package that includes paid time off, health insurance, dental insurance, vision coverage, life insurance and a 401(k) plan, and these costs can be significant.. Although our employees are generally not unionized, we acquired one business in New Jersey in 2010 that currently has approximately 42 employees who are represented by a labor union. From time to time, we experience attempts to unionize certain of our non-union employees. In 2015, the National Labor Relations Board (\"NLRB\") issued a final rule that significantly reduces the maximum number of days to hold a union election. This reduction in the open election period may limit the Company's ability to adequately inform employees regarding the risks associated with unionization. Future unionization activities could result in an increase of our labor and other costs. If any employees covered by a collective bargaining agreement were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown, we could experience a disruption of our operations and/or higher ongoing labor costs, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We expect increases in payroll expenses as a result of recent state and federal policy initiatives to increase the minimum wage. Although such increases are not expected to be material, we cannot assure you that there will not be material increases in the future.. Our business subjects us to substantial claims, litigation and governmental proceedings.. We are in the health and human services business and, therefore, we have been and continue to be subject to substantial claims alleging that we, our employees or our Mentors failed to provide proper care for an individual we support. We are also subject to claims by the individuals we support, our employees, our Mentors or community members against us for negligence and intentional misconduct, or violation of applicable laws. Included in our recent claims are claims alleging personal injury, assault, abuse, wrongful death, violations of wage and hour laws and other charges. For more information, see \"Item 3, Legal Proceedings\".. We are subject to United States federal, state and local employment laws that expose us to potential liability if we are determined to have violated such employment laws. Failure to comply with federal and state labor laws pertaining to minimum wage, overtime pay, meal and rest breaks, unemployment tax rates, workers' compensation rates, citizenship or residency requirements, and other employment-related matters may have a material adverse effect on our business or operations. In addition, employee claims based on, among other things, discrimination, harassment or wrongful termination may divert financial and management resources and adversely affect operations. We are further subject to the Fair Labor Standards Act (which governs such matters as minimum wages, overtime and other working conditions) as well as state and local wage and hour laws.. There are currently three pending complaints in California state court that allege certain wage and hour violations of California laws and seek to be designated as class-actions. One additional wage and hour class action brought in California has been settled and preliminarily approved by the court. The Company's policy is to accrue for all probable and estimable claims using information available at the time the financial statements are issued. Actual claims could settle in the future at materially different amounts due to the nature of litigation.. A litigation award excluded by, or in excess of, our third-party insurance limits and self-insurance reserves could have a material adverse impact on our operations and cash flow and could adversely impact our ability to continue to purchase appropriate liability insurance. Even if we are successful in our defense, lawsuits or regulatory proceedings could also irreparably damage our reputation.. Regulatory agencies may initiate administrative proceedings alleging that our programs, employees or agents violate statutes and regulations and seek to impose monetary penalties on us or ask for recoupment of amounts paid. We could be required to incur significant costs to respond to regulatory investigations or defend against lawsuits and, if we do not prevail, we could be required to pay substantial amounts of money in damages, settlement amounts or penalties arising from these legal proceedings.. Reductions in reimbursement rates, a failure to obtain increases in reimbursement rates or subsequent negative audit adjustments could adversely affect our revenue, cash flows and profitability.. 13. Table of Contents. Our revenue and operating profitability depend on our ability to maintain our existing reimbursement levels and to obtain periodic increases in reimbursement rates to meet higher costs and demand for more services. Approximately 7.6% of our revenue is derived from contracts based on a retrospective cost reimbursement model, whereby we are required to maintain a certain cost structure in order to realize the specified rate. For such programs, if our costs are less than the required amount, we are required to return a portion of the revenue to the payor. Some of our programs are also subject to prospective rate adjustments based on current spending levels. For such programs, we could experience reduced rates in the future if our current spending is not sufficient. If we are not entitled to, do not receive or cannot negotiate increases in reimbursement rates, or are forced to accept a reduction in our reimbursement rates at approximately the same time as our costs of providing services increase, including labor costs and rent, our margins and profitability could be adversely affected.. Changes in how federal and state government agencies operate reimbursement programs can also affect our operating results and financial condition. Some states have, from time to time, revised their rate-setting methodologies in a manner that has resulted in rate decreases. In some instances, changes in rate-setting methodologies have resulted in third-party payors disallowing, in whole or in part, our requests for reimbursement. Any reduction in or the failure to maintain or increase our reimbursement rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in the manner in which state agencies interpret program policies and procedures or review and audit billings and costs could also adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. As a result of cost reporting, we have from time to time experienced audit adjustments which are based on subjective judgments of reasonableness, necessity or allocation of costs in our services provided to individuals that we support. These adjustments are generally required to be negotiated as part of the overall audit resolution and may result in paybacks to payors and adjustments of our rates. We cannot assure you that our rates will be maintained or that we will be able to keep all payments made to us, until an audit of the relevant period is complete.. Our information systems are critical to our business and a failure of those systems, or a failure to upgrade them when required, could materially harm us.. We depend on our ability to store, retrieve, process and manage a significant amount of information, and to provide our operations with efficient and effective accounting, census, incident reporting and other quality assurance systems. Our information systems require maintenance and upgrading to meet our needs, which could significantly increase our administrative expenses.. Any system failure that causes an interruption in service or availability of our critical systems could adversely affect operations or delay the collection of revenues. Even though we have implemented network security measures, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, hacking and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering. The occurrence of any of these events could result in interruptions, delays, the loss or corruption of data, or cessations in the availability of systems, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations and harm our business reputation. Furthermore, a loss of health care information could result in potential penalties in certain of our businesses if we fail to comply with privacy and security standards in violation of HIPAA, as amended by the HITECH Act.. The performance of our information technology and systems is critical to our business operations. Our information systems are essential to a number of critical areas of our operations, including:. • accounting and financial reporting;. • billing and collecting accounts;. • coding and compliance;. • clinical systems, including census and incident reporting;. • records and document storage; and. • monitoring quality of care and collecting data on quality and compliance measures.. In addition, as we continue to upgrade our systems, we run the risk of ongoing disruptions while we transition from legacy, and often paper-based, systems. Disruptions in our systems could result in delays and difficulties in billing, which could negatively affect our results from operations and cash flows. We may choose systems that ultimately fail to meet our needs, or that cost more to implement and maintain than we had anticipated. Such systems may become obsolete sooner than expected, our payors may require us to invest in other systems, and state and/or federal regulations may impose electronic records. 14. Table of Contents. standards that we cannot easily address from our existing platform. If we fail to upgrade successfully and cost-effectively, or if we are forced to invest in new or incompatible technology, our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations may suffer.. We have high turnover among our direct service professionals, particularly in the first year of employment, substantial competition in attracting and retaining experienced personnel, and we may be unable to maintain or grow our business if we cannot attract and retain qualified employees.. Our success depends to a significant degree on our ability to attract and retain qualified and experienced human service and other professionals, who possess the skills and experience necessary to deliver quality services to the individuals we support and manage our operations. We face significant competition for certain categories of our employees, particularly direct service professionals and managers. Contractual requirements and service needs determine the number, as well as the education and experience levels, of health and human service professionals we hire. We have high turnover among our direct service professionals, particularly in their first year of employment. Also, due to the nature of the services we provide, our working conditions require additional sensitivities and skills relative to traditional medical care environments. Our ability to attract and retain employees with the requisite credentials, experience and skills depends on several factors, including, but not limited to, our ability to offer competitive wages, benefits, working conditions and professional growth opportunities. The inability to attract and retain experienced personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Negative publicity or changes in public perception of our services may adversely affect our ability to obtain new contracts and renew existing ones or obtain third-party referrals.. Our success in obtaining new contracts and renewals of our existing contracts depends upon maintaining our reputation as a quality service provider among governmental authorities, advocacy groups, families of individuals we serve, our individuals we serve and the public. Negative publicity, changes in public perception, quality lapses, legal proceedings and government investigations with respect to our operations could damage our reputation and hinder our ability to retain contracts and obtain new contracts, and could reduce referrals, increase government scrutiny and compliance or litigation costs, or generally discourage individuals from choosing us as a provider. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. Our reputation and prior experience with agency staff, direct support professionals and others in positions to make referrals to us are important for building and maintaining our operations. Any event that harms our reputation or creates negative experiences with such third parties could impact our ability to receive referrals and maintain or grow our base of individuals we serve.. On April 24, 2015, the United States Senate Finance Committee (the \"SFC\") sent a letter to the governor of every state requesting information regarding the state's administration of its foster care system and, in particular, the role of privatized foster care involving both not-for-profit and for-profit agencies. On June 17, 2015, the SFC sent a letter to us requesting extensive information regarding our foster care services. Following the June 17, 2015 letter, we received additional requests for further information regarding our foster care services from the SFC. We cooperated with the SFC's requests for information. In October 2017, the SFC issued a report.  While our organization was a focus of the report, there was no recommendation to take any action against us.  The report could engender further negative publicity and other negative actions that may harm us.. Our financial results could be adversely affected if claims against us are successful, to the extent we must make payments under our self-insured retentions, if claims are not covered by our applicable insurance or if the costs of our insurance coverage increase.. We have been and continue to be subject to substantial claims against our professional and general liability and automobile liability insurance. In addition, we have been and continue to be subject to substantial wage and hour claims. Professional and general liability claims, if successful, could result in substantial damage awards which might require us to make significant payments under our self-insured retentions and increase future insurance costs. Commencing October 1, 2015, we have been self-insured for $3.0 million per claim and $28.0 million in the aggregate. We may be subject to increased self-insurance retention limits in the future which could have a negative impact on our results. An award may exceed the limits of any applicable insurance coverage, and awards for punitive damages may be excluded from our insurance policies either contractually or by operation of state law. In addition, our insurance does not cover all potential liabilities including, for example, those arising from employment practice claims, wage and hour violations, and governmental fines and penalties. As a result, we may become responsible for substantial damage awards that are uninsured.. Insurance against professional and general liability and automobile liability can be expensive and our insurance premiums may increase in the future. Insurance rates vary from state to state, by type and by other factors. It is also possible that our liability and other insurance coverage will not continue to be available at acceptable costs or on favorable terms. Rising. 15. Table of Contents. costs of insurance premiums, and successful claims against us or the unavailability of insurance, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.. If payments for claims exceed actuarially determined estimates, if claims are not covered by insurance, or if our insurers fail to meet their obligations, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected.. The nature of services that we provide could subject us to significant workers' compensation related liability, some of which may not be fully reserved for.. We use a combination of insurance and self-insurance plans to provide for potential liability for workers' compensation claims. Because we have so many employees, and because of the inherent physical risk associated with the interaction of employees with the individuals we support, many of whom have intensive care needs, the potential for incidents giving rise to workers' compensation liability is high.. We estimate liabilities associated with workers' compensation risk and establish reserves each quarter based on internal valuations, third-party actuarial advice, historical loss development factors and other assumptions believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. In prior years, our results of operations have been adversely impacted by higher than anticipated claims, and they may be adversely impacted in the future if actual occurrences and claims exceed our assumptions and historical trends.. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act materially reduced the flexibility we had in maintaining our healthcare costs and may make it harder for us to compete as an employer.. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act imposed new mandates on employers and individuals. Since January 2014, we offer employees health coverage that meets the requirements of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. Uncertainty and speculation regarding the possible repeal of all or a portion of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act has continued since the Presidential election in 2016. Depending upon claims experience or enrollment changes in our new plans, or changes to the existing law, our cost for employee health insurance could materially increase. Moreover, if the coverage we are offering isn't competitive with the health insurance benefits our employees could receive at other employers, we may become less attractive as an employer and it may become more difficult for us to compete for qualified employees.. We have a history of losses, and we might not be profitable in the future.. Due in large part to our high levels of indebtedness, we have had a history of losses. For the year ended September 30, 2014, we generated net loss of $22.8 million. Although we generated net income of $6.3 million, $9.2 million, and $3.1 million for the years ended September 30, 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively, and have decreased our interest obligations by repaying all of our senior notes and refinancing our senior secured credit facilities, we could report losses in the future. Other factors may cause us to report losses in the future, including reductions in funding for our services, reductions in reimbursement rates, increases in our costs, increased competition and other factors described elsewhere under this \"Item 1A, Risk Factors\".. Economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, liquidity and financial condition.. Our government payors rely on tax revenue to pay for our services. In the wake of the last economic recession that began in 2008, most states faced unprecedented declines in tax revenues and, as a result, record budget gaps. Furthermore, even after eight years of economic improvement, state tax revenue is on average only slightly above prerecession levels, after adjusting for inflation, and only 25 states' revenues have surpassed prerecession levels in inflation adjusted terms. If the economy were to contract into a recession again, our government payors or other counterparties that owe us money could be delayed in obtaining, or may not be able to obtain, necessary funding and/or financing to meet their cash flow needs. If the credit rating of the federal government is downgraded, it is possible there will be related downgrades of state credit ratings as well. If this or unrelated state downgrades occur, it could be more expensive for states to finance their cash flow needs and put additional pressure on state budgets. Delays in payment could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, liquidity and financial condition. In the event that our payors or other counterparties are financially unstable or delay payments to us, our financial condition could be impaired.. 16. Table of Contents. State and local government payors with which we have contracts have complicated billing and collection rules and regulations, and if we fail to meet such requirements, our business could be materially impacted.. We derive approximately 89% of our revenue from contracts with state and local government agencies, and a substantial portion of this revenue is state-funded with federal Medicaid matching dollars. In billing for our services to third-party payors, we must follow complex documentation, coding and billing rules and there can be delays before we receive payment. These rules are based on federal and state laws, rules and regulations, various government pronouncements, and on industry practice. If we fail to comply with federal and state documentation, coding and billing rules, we could be subject to criminal and/or civil penalties, loss of licenses and exclusion from the Medicaid programs, which could materially adversely affect us. Specifically, failure to follow these rules could result in potential criminal or civil liability under the False Claims Act and various federal and state criminal healthcare fraud statutes, under which extensive financial penalties and exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs can be imposed.. Federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting or causing to be presented a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making or causing to be made a false statement to get a false claim paid. Penalties for a False Claims Act violation include three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus mandatory civil penalties of between $5,500 and $11,000 for each separate false claim, the potential for exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs and criminal liability. The majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor. See \" - We are subject to extensive governmental regulations, which require significant compliance expenditures, and a failure to comply with these regulations could adversely affect our business.\". We annually submit a large volume of claims for Medicaid and other payments, and there can be no assurance that there have not been errors. The rules are frequently vague and confusing, our systems are often manual, and we cannot assure that governmental investigators, private insurers, private whistleblowers or Medicaid auditors will not challenge our practices. Such a challenge could result in a material adverse effect on our business.. We are routinely subject to governmental reviews, audits and investigations to verify our compliance with applicable laws and regulations. As a result of these reviews, audits and investigations, these governmental payors may be entitled to, at their discretion:. • require us to refund amounts we have previously been paid;. • terminate or modify our existing contracts;. • suspend or prevent us from receiving new contracts or extending existing contracts;. • impose referral holds on us;. • impose fines, penalties or other sanctions on us; and. • reduce the amount we are paid under our existing contracts.. As a result of past reviews and audits of our operations, we have been and are subject to some of these actions from time to time. While we do not currently believe that our existing governmental reviews and audit proceedings will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or significantly harm our reputation, we cannot assure you that such actions or similar actions in the future will not do so. In addition, such proceedings could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations in a future reporting period. Moreover, if we are required to restructure our billing and collection methods, these changes could be disruptive to our operations and costly to implement.. Complicated billing and collection procedures can result in delays in collecting payment for our services, which may adversely affect our liquidity, cash flows and operating results.. The reimbursement process is time consuming and complex, and there can be delays before we receive payment. Government reimbursement, facility credentialing, Medicaid recipient eligibility and service authorization procedures are often complicated and burdensome, and delays can result from, among other things, securing documentation and coordinating necessary eligibility paperwork between agencies. Similar issues arise in seeking payment from some of our private payors. These reimbursement and procedural issues occasionally cause us to have to resubmit claims several times and manage other administrative requests before payment is remitted. Missed filing deadlines can cause rejections of claims. If there is a billing error, the process to resolve the error may be time-consuming and costly. To the extent that complexity associated with billing. 17. Table of Contents. for our services causes delays in our cash collections, we assume the financial risk of increased carrying costs associated with the aging of our accounts receivable as well as increased potential for write-offs. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to collect payment for claims at our current levels in future periods. The risks associated with third-party payors and the inability to monitor and manage accounts receivable successfully could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, cash flows and operating results.. Failure to comply with requirements to design, implement and maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We are required, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, to furnish a report by management on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must report on its evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting. If we are unable to remedy past deficiencies, or if we identify additional deficiencies in the future, we may be unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective or obtain an unqualified opinion from our independent registered public accounting firm.. Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our liquidity and ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, and it could limit our ability to invest in our growth initiatives or react to changes in the economy or our industry.. We have a significant amount of indebtedness and substantial leverage. As of September 30, 2017, we had total indebtedness, excluding capital lease obligations, of $632.5 million and an ability to borrow up to an additional $117.1 million under our revolving credit facility. Borrowings under the senior secured credit facilities bear interest at rates that fluctuate with changes in certain short-term prevailing interest rates. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on any portion of our variable rate indebtedness that we have not hedged would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same. We expect to continue to make new investments in our growth that may reduce liquidity, and we may need to increase our indebtedness in the future.. Our substantial degree of leverage could have important consequences, including the following:. • it may curtail our acquisitions program and may limit our ability to invest in our infrastructure and in growth opportunities;. • it may diminish our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements and general corporate or other purposes;. • the debt service requirements of our indebtedness could make it more difficult for us to satisfy our indebtedness and contractual and commercial commitments;. • a significant portion of our cash flows from operations will be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness and will not be available for other purposes, including our operations, future business opportunities and acquisitions and capital expenditures;. • interest rates on any portion of our variable interest rate borrowings under the senior secured credit facilities that we have not hedged may increase;. • it may limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt and a lower degree of leverage; and. • we may be vulnerable if the country falls into another recession, or if there is a downturn in our business, or we may be unable to carry out activities that are important to our growth.. Subject to restrictions in the senior credit agreement, we may be able to incur more debt in the future, which may intensify the risks described in this risk factor. All of the borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities are secured by substantially all of the assets of the National Mentor Holdings, Inc. (\"NMHI\") and its subsidiaries.. In addition to our significant amount of indebtedness, we have significant rental obligations under our operating leases for our group homes, other service facilities and administrative offices. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017 our aggregate rental expense for these leases was $73.5 million. We expect this number will increase during fiscal 2018 as a result of new leases entered into pursuant to acquisitions and new program starts. Our ongoing rental obligations could exacerbate the risks described above.. 18. Table of Contents. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to fund our debt service, rental payments and other obligations depends on many factors beyond our control. In addition, possible acquisitions or investments in organic growth and other strategic initiatives could require additional debt financing. If our future cash flows do not meet our expectations and we are unable to service our debt, or if we are unable to obtain additional debt financing, we may be forced to take actions such as revising or delaying our strategic plans, reducing or delaying acquisitions, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt, or seeking additional equity capital. We may be unable to effect any of these transactions on satisfactory terms, or at all. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt service obligations, or to obtain additional financing on satisfactory terms, or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. If we fail to establish and maintain relationships with government agencies, we may not be able to successfully procure or retain government-sponsored contracts, which could negatively impact our revenue.. To facilitate our ability to procure or retain government-sponsored contracts, we rely in part on establishing and maintaining relationships with officials of various government agencies, primarily at the state and local level but also including federal agencies. These relationships enable us to maintain and renew existing contracts and obtain new contracts and referrals. The effectiveness of our relationships may be reduced or eliminated with changes in the personnel holding various government offices or staff positions. We also may lose key personnel who have these relationships, and such personnel may not be subject to non-compete or non-solicitation covenants. Any failure to establish, maintain or manage relationships with government and agency personnel may hinder our ability to procure or retain government-sponsored contracts, and could negatively impact our revenue.. A loss of our status as a licensed service provider in any jurisdiction could result in the termination of existing services and our inability to market our services in that jurisdiction.. We operate in numerous jurisdictions and are required to maintain licenses and certifications in order to conduct our operations in each of them. Each state and local government has its own regulations, which can be complicated. Additionally, each of our service lines can be regulated differently within a particular jurisdiction. As a result, maintaining the necessary licenses and certifications to conduct our operations is cumbersome. Our licenses and certifications could be suspended, revoked or terminated for a number of reasons, including the:. • failure by our direct care staff or host-home providers to properly care for individuals;. • failure to submit proper documentation to the applicable government agency, including documentation supporting reimbursements for costs;. • failure by our programs to abide by the applicable laws and regulations relating to the provision of health and human services; and the. • failure of our facilities to comply with the applicable building, health and safety codes and ordinances.. From time to time, some of our licenses or certifications, or those of our employees, are temporarily placed on probationary status or suspended. If we lost our status as a licensed provider of health and human services in any jurisdiction or any other required certification, we would be unable to market our services in that jurisdiction, and the contracts under which we provide services in that jurisdiction would be subject to termination. This includes the possibility of loss or suspension of licenses for an entire state.  For instance, in Minnesota a loss or suspension of our license in a particular county may result in the loss or suspension of any license held by one of our affiliates in the state which could preclude us from providing services throughout the entire state.  In addition, in providing services in certain jurisdictions, we subcontract to another provider. In those situations, the other provider may hold the license or certification. However, if the other provider's license or certification were revoked or suspended, we may no longer be permitted to provide services in that jurisdiction. Loss of a license as a direct provider or subcontractor of another provider of health and human services could constitute a violation of provisions of contracts in other jurisdictions, resulting in other contract, license or certification terminations. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and operations.. We conduct a significant percentage of our operations in Minnesota and, as a result, we are particularly susceptible to any reduction in budget appropriations for our services or any other adverse developments in that state.. For each of the fiscal years ended September 30, 2017,  2016, and 2015, approximately 15% of our net revenue was derived from contracts with government agencies in the State of Minnesota. Additionally, during fiscal 2017 we acquired Habilitative Services, Inc. which is located in Minnesota and is expected to increase the amount of revenue we derive from contracts wtih government agencies in the state of Minnesota.  Accordingly, any reduction in Minnesota's budgetary appropriations for our services, whether as a result of fiscal constraints due to recession, changes in policy or otherwise, could. 19. Table of Contents. result in a reduction in our revenues and possibly the loss of contracts.  We cannot assure you that there will be no rate reductions this year or in the future in Minnesota. The concentration of our operations in Minnesota also makes us particularly susceptible to many of the other risks described above occurring in this state, including:. • the failure to maintain and renew our licenses;. • the failure to maintain important relationships with officials of government agencies; and. • any negative publicity regarding our operations.. Any of these adverse developments occurring in Minnesota could result in a reduction in revenue or a loss of contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. We have increased and will continue to make substantial expenditures to expand existing services, win new business and grow revenue, but we may not realize the anticipated benefits of such increased expenditures.. In order to grow our business, we must capitalize on opportunities to expand existing services and win new business, some of which require spending in advance of revenue.  For example, states such as Ohio, California and New Jersey are in the process of transitioning individuals with intellectual and developmental disabilities from state-run institutions and other large institutional settings into community-based settings such as ours. Responding to opportunities such as these typically requires significant investment of our resources in advance of revenue.. We spend a significant amount on growth initiatives, especially new starts. These investments have had a negative effect on our operating margin, and we may not realize the anticipated benefits of the spending as soon as we expect to or at any point in the future. If we target the wrong areas, or fail to identify the evolving needs of our payors by responding with service offerings that meet their fiscal and programmatic requirements, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of our investments and the results of our operations may suffer.. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of any future acquisitions, and we may experience difficulties in integrating these acquisitions.. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to make acquisitions. Growing our business through acquisitions involves risks because with any acquisition there is the possibility that:. • the business we acquire may not continue to generate income at the same historical levels on which we based our acquisition decision;. • we may be unable to maintain and renew the contracts of the acquired business;. • unforeseen difficulties may arise in integrating the acquired operations, including employment practices, information systems and accounting controls;. • we may not achieve operating efficiencies, synergies, economies of scale and cost reductions as expected;. • we may be required to pay higher purchase prices for acquisitions than we have paid historically;. • the goodwill and intangible assets we acquire may not be recoverable, resulting in an impairment charge that would negatively affect our financial results;. • management may be distracted from overseeing existing operations by the need to integrate the acquired business;. • we may acquire or assume unexpected liabilities or there may be other unanticipated costs;. • we may encounter unanticipated regulatory risk;. • we may experience problems entering new markets or service lines in which we have limited or no experience;. • we may fail to retain and assimilate key employees of the acquired business;. • we may finance the acquisition by incurring additional debt and further increase our leverage ratios; and. • the culture of the acquired business may not match well with our culture.. As a result of these risks, there can be no assurance that any future acquisition will be successful or that it will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. 20. Table of Contents. We rely on information technology in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our business.. We rely on information technology networks and systems to process, transmit and store electronic information in order to manage or support a variety of our business processes, including consumer records, financial transactions and maintenance of records. These processes may include sensitive financial information, personally identifiable information of individuals we serve and employees, and personal health information protected by HIPPA. Our business and operations may be harmed if we do not securely maintain our business processes and information systems or maintain the integrity of our confidential information. Although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to protect information against security breaches, it is impossible to prevent all security breaches. Failure to protect such information or mitigate any such breaches may adversely affect our operating results. Security breaches, including physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses, attacks by hackers and similar breaches, can create system disruptions, shutdowns and unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. Any failure to maintain proper function, security and availability of our information systems could interrupt our operations, damage our reputation, subject us to liability claims or regulatory penalties, increase administrative expenses or lead to other adverse consequences.. We are subject to extensive governmental regulations, which require significant compliance expenditures, and a failure to comply with these regulations could adversely affect our business.. We are required to comply with comprehensive government regulation of our business, including statutes, regulations and policies governing the licensing of our facilities, the maintenance and management of our work place for our employees, the quality of our service, the revenue we receive for our services and reimbursement for the cost of our services. Compliance with these laws, regulations and policies is expensive, and if we fail to comply with these laws, regulations and policies, we could lose contracts and the related revenue, thereby harming our financial results. State and federal regulatory agencies have broad discretionary powers over the administration and enforcement of laws and regulations that govern our operations. A material violation of a law or regulation could subject us to fines and penalties and in some circumstances could disqualify some or all of the facilities and programs under our control from future participation in Medicaid or other government programs.. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (\"HIPAA\"), as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (\"HITECH Act\") and other federal and state data privacy and security laws govern the collection, dissemination, security, use and confidentiality of patient-identifiable health information. HIPAA and the HITECH Act require us to comply with standards for the use and disclosure of health information within our company and with third parties, including, among other things, the adoption of administrative, physical and technical safeguards to protect such information. Additionally, certain states have adopted comparable privacy and security laws and regulations, some of which may be more stringent than HIPAA. While we have taken steps to comply with applicable health information privacy and security requirements to which we are aware that we are subject to, if we do not comply with existing or new federal or state laws and regulations related to patient health information, we could be subject to criminal or civil sanctions and any resulting liability could adversely affect our operations. The costs of complying with privacy and security related legal and regulatory requirements are burdensome and could have a material adverse effect on our operations.. Expenses incurred under governmental agency contracts for any of our services, as well as management contracts with providers of record for such agencies, are subject to review by agencies administering the contracts and services. Representatives of those agencies visit our group homes to verify compliance with state and local regulations governing our home operations. A negative outcome from any of these examinations could increase government scrutiny, increase compliance costs or hinder our ability to obtain or retain contracts. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. The federal Anti-Kickback Law and similar state statutes, prohibit the provision of kickbacks, rebates and any other form of remuneration in return for referrals. Any remuneration, direct or indirect, offered, paid, solicited or received, in return for referrals of patients or business for which payment may be made in whole or in part under Medicaid could be considered a violation of law. The Anti-Kickback Law also prohibits payments made to anyone to induce them to recommend purchasing, leasing or ordering any goods, facility, service or item for which payment may be made in whole or in part by Medicaid. Criminal penalties under the Anti-Kickback Law include fines up to $25,000, imprisonment for up to five years, or both. In addition, acts constituting a violation of the Anti-Kickback Law may also lead to civil penalties, such as fines, assessments, exclusion from participation in the Medicaid programs and liability under the False Claims Act.. We are subject to many different and varied audit mechanisms for post-payment review of claims submitted under the Medicaid program. These include Recovery Audit Contractor (\"RAC\") auditors, State Medicaid auditors, surveillance integrity. 21. Table of Contents. review audits and Payment Error Rate Measurement (\"PERM\") audits, among others. Any one of these audit activities may identify claims that the auditors deem problematic and, following such determination, auditors may require recoupment of claims by Medicaid to us.. On March 17, 2014, a federal regulation governing home- and community-based services became effective. The rule establishes eligibility requirements for Medicaid home and community-based services provided under the \"waiver\" program. The waiver program allows the states to furnish an array of home- and community-based services and avoid institutional care. Under the new rule, home- and community-based settings must be integrated in and support full access to the greater community, be selected by the individual from different setting options, ensure individual rights of privacy, and optimize autonomy and independence in making life choices. The rule includes additional requirements for provider-owned or controlled home and community-based residential settings, including that the individual has a lease or other legally enforceable agreement, and standards related to the individual's privacy, control over schedule and visitors, and physical accessibility of the setting. The rule requires that each state submit a transition plan to the federal government that describes how each state will implement the new regulation.  At this juncture six states and the District of Columbia have received final approval of their Statewide Transition Plans and it remains unclear how other states will implement this regulation. The rule presents some implementation challenges, as some of the broad requirements may conflict with the needs and/or precautions that we must take for some of the individuals that we serve. It is unclear how each state will seek to address this potential conflict, and the impact and costs of implementation and compliance with this regulation are currently unknown. States have the option to request a variation or delay of compliance with the federal standards for as long as five years from the effective date. Moreover, each state Medicaid agency may interpret and submit different requests and extension timelines.. Any change in interpretations or enforcement of existing or new laws and regulations could subject our current business practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality, or could require us to make changes in our homes, equipment, personnel, services, pricing or capital expenditure programs, which could increase our operating expenses and have a material adverse effect on our operations or reduce the demand for or profitability of our services.. Should we be found out of compliance with these statutes, regulations and policies, depending on the nature of the findings, our business, our financial position and our results of operations could be materially adversely impacted.. Our financial results may suffer if we have to write off goodwill or other intangible assets.. A large portion of our total assets consists of goodwill and other intangible assets. Goodwill and other intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, accounted for 55.9% and 53.9% of the total assets on our consolidated balance sheets as of September 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively.. We evaluate on a regular basis whether events and circumstances have occurred that indicate that all or a portion of the carrying amount of goodwill or other intangible assets may no longer be recoverable, and is therefore impaired. Under current accounting rules, any determination that impairment has occurred would require us to write-off the impaired portion of our goodwill or the unamortized portion of our intangible assets, resulting in a charge to our earnings. We may not realize the value of our goodwill or other intangible assets and we expect to engage in additional transactions that will result in our recognition of additional goodwill or other intangible assets. During the years ended September 30, 2017 and 2016, we recorded goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges of $31.0 million and $10.3 million, respectively associated with our ADH businesses.  (Refer to Note 7, \"Goodwill and Intangible Assets\"). The high level of competition in our industry could adversely affect our contract and revenue base.. We compete in a highly fragmented industry with a wide variety of competitors, ranging from small, local agencies to a few large, national organizations. Competitive factors may favor other providers and reduce our ability to obtain contracts, which would hinder our growth. Not-for-profit organizations are active in all states and range from small agencies, serving a limited area with specific programs to multi-state organizations. Smaller local organizations may have a better understanding of the local conditions and may be better able to gain political and public acceptance. Not-for-profit providers may be affiliated with advocacy groups, health organizations or religious organizations that have substantial influence with legislators and government agencies. Increased competition may result in pricing pressures, loss of or failure to gain market share or loss of individuals we serve or payors, any of which could harm our business.. Home and community-based human services may become less popular among our targeted populations and/or state and local governments, which would adversely affect our results of operations.. 22. Table of Contents. Our growth depends on the continuation of trends in our industry toward providing services to individuals in smaller, community-based settings and increasing the percentage of individuals served by non-governmental providers. For example, during the course of much of the last decade, state governments increasingly adopted policies that emphasized greater family preservation and family reunification for at-risk youth, which reduced the demand for foster care services, caused us to adapt our service offerings and contributed to our decision to divest ARY operations in six states.  Shifts in public policy and, therefore, our future success, are subject to a variety of political, economic, social and legal pressures, all of which are beyond our control. A reversal in the downsizing and privatization trends could reduce the demand for our services, which could adversely affect our revenue and profitability.. Covenants in our senior credit agreement impose several restrictions on our business.. The senior credit agreement contains various covenants that limit our ability to, among other things:. • incur additional debt or issue certain preferred shares;. • pay dividends on or make distributions in respect of capital stock or make other restricted payments;. • make certain investments;. • sell certain assets;. • create liens on certain assets to secure debt;. • enter into agreements that restrict dividends from subsidiaries;. • consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and. • enter into certain transactions with our affiliates.. The senior credit agreement governing the senior secured credit facilities also requires us to maintain a specified financial ratio in the event that we draw greater than 30% of the revolving commitment under our senior revolver. Our ability to meet this financial ratio could be affected by events beyond our control. The breach of any of these covenants or financial ratio could result in a default under the senior secured credit facilities and our lenders could elect to declare all amounts borrowed thereunder, together with accrued interest, to be due and payable and could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness.. If we are not successful in expanding into adjacent markets, our growth strategy could suffer.. Our growth strategy depends on pursuing opportunities in adjacent markets, and we may not be successful in adapting our service models to markets or service lines in which we have little or no prior experience. We recently expanded into the ADH services market. In the ADH services market, competition for elders to serve can sometimes be intense and employees may leave and compete. In the future, we may explore other adjacent markets, such as services to youth with autism and individuals with mental health issues, which would expose us to additional operational, regulatory and legal risks. Serving other populations may require compliance with additional federal and state laws and regulations which may differ from the laws and regulations that apply to the populations we currently serve. Compliance with new laws and regulations may result in unanticipated expenses or liabilities. Programs we open in adjacent markets may also take longer to reach expected revenue and profit levels on a consistent basis and may have higher occupancy or operating costs than programs in our existing markets, which may affect our overall profitability. Adjacent markets may have different payors, referral sources, staffing requirements, individual preferences and competitive conditions. We may find it more difficult to hire, motivate and keep qualified direct care workers and other employees in these adjacent markets. We may need to augment our staffing to meet regulatory requirements, and the overall cost of labor may be higher. As a result, we may not be successful in diversifying the populations we serve, and we may fail to capture market share in adjacent markets. If any steps taken to expand our existing business into adjacent markets are unsuccessful, we may not be able to achieve our growth strategy and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected.. 23. Table of Contents. Our success depends on our ability to manage and integrate key administrative functions.. Our operations and administrative functions are largely decentralized and subject to disparate accounting and billing requirements established and often modified by our local payors and referral sources. Although in recent years we have undertaken an effort to consolidate accounting, billing, cash collections and other financial and administrative functions which may have mitigated this risk to some degree, there remains a substantial portion of the business that has not yet been centralized and some risk in the centralization process itself. In fiscal 2016, the Company began a comprehensive review of its operations in an effort to identify and eliminate cost inefficiencies in the business. If we encounter difficulties in integrating our operations further or implementing our cost saving measures or fail to effectively manage these functions to ensure compliance with disparate and evolving requirements imposed by our payors and referral sources, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. We may be more susceptible to the effects of a natural disaster or public health catastrophe, compared with other businesses due to the vulnerable nature of our population.. Our primary population served includes individuals with developmental disabilities, brain injuries, or emotionally, behaviorally and/or medically complex challenges, many of whom would be more vulnerable than the general public in a natural disaster or public health catastrophe. In a natural disaster, we could be forced to relocate some of our individuals we serve on short notice under dangerous conditions and our new program starts and acquisitions could experience delays. Accordingly, natural disasters and certain public health catastrophes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We are classified as a \"controlled company\" and, as a result, we qualify for, and rely upon, certain exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. You will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to such requirements.. We are a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange corporate governance standards. Under the rules of the New York Stock Exchange, a company of which more than 50% of the outstanding voting power is held by an individual, group or another company is a \"controlled company\" and may elect not to comply with certain stock. exchange corporate governance requirements, including the requirements that:. • a majority of the Board of Directors consist of independent directors;. • nominating and corporate governance matters be decided solely by independent directors; and. • employee and officer compensation matters be decided solely by independent directors.. Although as of September 30, 2017, a majority of the Board of Directors is independent, we do rely upon the other two exemptions listed above. Accordingly, you may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the stock exchange corporate governance requirements.. Our stock price may be volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance, and you may not be able to resell your shares at or above your purchase price.. The market price for our common stock has been and may be volatile. You may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price you paid, due to fluctuations in the market price of our common stock, which may be caused by a number of factors, many of which we cannot control including the following:. • changes in financial estimates by any securities analysts who follow our common stock, our failure to meet these estimates or failure of those analysts to initiate or maintain coverage of our common stock;. • downgrades by any securities analysts who follow our common stock;. • future sales of our common stock by our officers, directors and significant stockholders;. • market conditions or trends in our industry or the economy as a whole and, in particular, in the healthcare environment;. • investors' perceptions of our prospects;. • announcements by us of significant contracts, acquisitions, joint ventures or capital commitments; and. 24. Table of Contents. • changes in key personnel.. In addition, the stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies, including companies in the healthcare industry. In the past, stockholders have instituted securities class action litigation following periods of market volatility. If we were involved in securities litigation, we could incur substantial costs, and our resources and the attention of management could be diverted from our business.. Our equity sponsor has the ability to control significant corporate activities and our majority stockholder's interests may not coincide with yours.. Vestar owns approximately 52% of our common stock. As a result, Vestar has the ability to control the outcome of matters submitted to a vote of stockholders. In addition, under the director nominating agreement that we entered into in connection with our IPO (the \"Nominating Agreement\"), affiliates of Vestar will have the right to nominate directors for election to our Board of Directors, and we will agree to support those nominees. Under certain circumstances, those nominees could constitute a majority of our Board of Directors even though affiliates of Vestar at the time owns less than a majority of our common stock, giving Vestar decision-making control over us. Matters over which Vestar may, directly or indirectly, exercise control include:. • the election of our Board of Directors and the appointment and removal of our officers;. • mergers and other business combination transactions, including proposed transactions that would result in our stockholders receiving a premium price for their shares;. • other material acquisitions or dispositions of businesses or assets;. • incurrence of indebtedness and the issuance of equity securities;. • repurchase of stock and payment of dividends; and. • the issuance of shares to management under our equity incentive plans.. Even if Vestar's ownership of our shares falls below a majority, Vestar may continue to be able to influence or effectively control our decisions. Under our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, Vestar and its affiliates will not have any obligation to present to us, and Vestar may separately pursue, corporate opportunities of which they become aware, even if those opportunities are ones that we would have pursued if granted the opportunity.. Future sales of our common stock, or the perception in the public markets that these sales may occur, may depress our stock price.. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could adversely affect the price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional shares. As of September 30, 2017, we had 37,441,257 shares of common stock outstanding and 350,000,000 shares of common stock authorized under our amended and restated certificate of incorporation.. On October 1, 2015, NMH Investment distributed all of the shares of our common stock held by it to its existing members in accordance with their respective membership interests (the \"Distribution\"). These former members of NMH Investment, which include Vestar and certain of our officers and directors, may sell the shares they received in the Distribution that they continue to hold under Rule 144 under the Securities Act, subject to the volume limits and other requirements of Rule 144 applicable to affiliates, or in future public offerings.. As of September 30, 2017, holders of an aggregate of approximately 20.4 million shares of our common stock (including Vestar and certain of our directors and executive officers) had the right, subject to certain conditions, to require us to register shares of our common stock pursuant to the terms of a registration rights agreement between us and the holders of those shares. We have also registered the shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of stock options and RSUs granted under our 2014 omnibus incentive plan on a registration statement on Form S-8.. Members of our management have in the past and may in the future enter into Rule 10b5-1 trading plans pursuant to which they may sell shares of our common stock into the open market.. 25. Table of Contents. In the future, we may also issue our securities in connection with acquisitions or investments. The amount of shares of our common stock issued in connection with an acquisition or investment could constitute a material portion of our then-outstanding shares of our common stock.  We cannot predict the size of future sales or issuances of our common stock or the effect, if any, that future sales or issuances of our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our common stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of us or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our common stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline.. Because we do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future, you may not receive any return on investment unless you are able to sell your common stock for a price greater than your purchase price.. The continued operation and expansion of our business will require substantial funding. Accordingly, we. do not anticipate that we will pay any cash dividends on shares of our common stock for the foreseeable future. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon results of operations, financial condition, contractual restrictions, including those under our senior secured credit facilities, any potential indebtedness we may incur, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors our Board of Directors deems relevant. Accordingly, if you purchase shares, realization of a gain on your investment will depend on the appreciation of the price of our common stock, which may never occur. Investors seeking cash dividends in the foreseeable future should not purchase our common stock.. We are a holding company and rely on dividends, distributions and other payments, advances and transfers of funds from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations.. We are a holding company that does not conduct any business operations of our own. As a result, we are largely dependent upon cash dividends and distributions and other transfers from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations. The deterioration of income from, or other available assets of, our subsidiaries for any reason could limit or impair their ability to pay dividends or other distributions to us.. 26. Table of Contents"
