[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. Risks Related to Our Business. Our results have been in the past, and could be in the future, adversely affected by economic uncertainty or deteriorations in economic conditions. We derive revenues from the sale of advertising.  Expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical, reflecting economic conditions and budgeting and buying patterns.  Periods of a slowing economy or recession, or periods of economic uncertainty, may be accompanied by a decrease in advertising. For example, the global economic downturn that began in 2008 resulted in a decline in advertising and marketing by our customers, which resulted in a decline in advertising revenues across our businesses. This reduction in advertising revenues had an adverse effect on our revenue, profit margins, cash flow and liquidity. Global economic conditions have been slow to recover and remain uncertain.  If economic conditions do not continue to improve, economic uncertainty increases or economic conditions deteriorate again, global economic conditions may once again adversely impact our revenue, profit margins, cash flow and liquidity.  Furthermore, because a significant portion of our revenue is derived from local advertisers, our ability to generate revenues in specific markets is directly affected by local and regional conditions, and unfavorable regional economic conditions also may adversely impact our results.  In addition, even in the absence of a downturn in general economic conditions, an individual business sector or market may experience a downturn, causing it to reduce its advertising expenditures, which also may adversely impact our results.. To service our debt obligations and to fund our operations and our capital expenditures, we require a significant amount of cash to meet our needs, which depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to service our debt obligations and to fund our operations and our capital expenditures for display construction, renovation or maintenance requires a significant amount of cash.  Our primary sources of liquidity are cash on hand, cash flow from operations, the intercompany arrangements provided for in the cash management order approved in the iHeart Chapter 11 Cases and our senior revolving credit facility.  Based on our current and anticipated levels of operations and conditions in our markets, we believe that cash on hand, cash flow from operations, cash provided under the intercompany arrangements and borrowing capacity under our senior revolving credit facility will enable us to meet our working capital, capital expenditure, debt service and other funding requirements for at least the next twelve months.  However, our ability to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, debt service and other obligations depends on our future operating performance and cash from operations, which are in turn subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. If our future operating performance does not meet our expectations or our plans materially change in an adverse manner or prove to be materially inaccurate, we may need additional financing.  In addition, the purchase price of possible acquisitions, capital expenditures for deployment of digital billboards and/or other strategic initiatives could require additional indebtedness or equity financing on our part.  Adverse securities and credit market conditions could significantly affect the availability of equity or debt financing.. 11. Consequently, there can be no assurance that such financing, if permitted under the terms of our financing agreements, will be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. The inability to obtain additional financing in such circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and on our ability to meet our obligations or pursue strategic initiatives. Additional indebtedness could increase our leverage and make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and may limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures.. We face intense competition in the outdoor advertising business. We operate in a highly competitive industry, and we may not be able to maintain or increase our current advertising revenues.  We compete for advertising revenue with other outdoor advertising businesses, as well as with other media, such as radio, newspapers, magazines, television, direct mail, mobile devices, satellite radio and Internet-based services, within their respective markets.  Market shares are subject to change for various reasons including through consolidation of our competitors through processes such as mergers and acquisitions, which could have the effect of reducing our revenue in a specific market.  Our competitors may develop technology, services or advertising media that are equal or superior to those we provide or that achieve greater market acceptance and brand recognition than we achieve.  It also is possible that new competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share in any of our business segments.  An increased level of competition for advertising dollars may lead to lower advertising rates as we attempt to retain customers or may cause us to lose customers to our competitors who offer lower rates that we are unable or unwilling to match.. Our business is dependent on our management team and other key individuals. Our business is dependent upon the performance of our management team and other key individuals.  Although we have entered into agreements with some members of our management team and certain other key individuals, we can give no assurance that all or any of our management team and other key individuals will remain with us, or that we won't continue to make changes to the composition of, and the roles and responsibilities of, our management team. Competition for these individuals is intense and many of our key employees are at-will employees who are under no obligation to remain with us, and may decide to leave for a variety of personal or other reasons beyond our control. If members of our management or key individuals decide to leave us in the future, if we decide to make further changes to the composition of, or the roles and responsibilities of, these individuals, or if we are not successful in attracting, motivating and retaining other key employees, our business could be adversely affected.  Five of our executive officers serve as executive officers of iHeartMedia and iHeartCommunications, including our CEO who also serves as the CEO of iHeartMedia and iHeartCommunications. These executive officers provide services to us pursuant to the Corporate Services Agreement. If the Corporate Services Agreement is rejected or otherwise terminated during or upon completion of the iHeart Chapter 11 Cases, and these officers cease to provide services to us, we will need to identify replacements or transition their responsibilities to others. In addition, the iHeart RSA contemplates a separation of the Company from iHeartCommunications. Accordingly, alternative arrangements for executive management will likely need to be implemented as a result of the separation.. The success of our street furniture and transit products businesses is dependent on our obtaining key municipal concessions, which we may not be able to obtain on favorable terms. Our street furniture and transit products businesses require us to obtain and renew contracts with municipalities and transit authorities. Many of these contracts, which require us to participate in competitive bidding processes at each renewal, typically have terms ranging up to 15 years and have revenue share, capital expenditure requirements and/or fixed payment components. Competitive bidding processes are complex and sometimes lengthy and substantial costs may be incurred in connection with preparing bids.. Our competitors, individually or through relationships with third parties, may be able to provide different or greater capabilities or prices or benefits than we can provide. In the past we have not been, and most likely in the future will not be, awarded all of the contracts on which we bid. The success of our business also depends generally on our ability to obtain and renew contracts with private landlords. There can be no assurance that we will win any particular bid, be able to renew existing contracts or be able to replace any revenue lost upon expiration or completion of a contract. Our inability to renew existing contracts may also result in significant expenses from the removal of our displays. Furthermore, if and when we do obtain a contract, we are generally required to incur significant start-up expenses. The costs of bidding on contracts and the start-up costs associated with new contracts we may obtain may significantly reduce our cash flow and liquidity.. This competitive bidding process presents a number of risks, including the following:. <U+25AA> we expend substantial cost and managerial time and effort to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that we may not win;. <U+25AA> we may be unable to estimate accurately the revenue derived from and the resources and cost structure that will be required to service any contract we win; and. 12. <U+25AA> we may encounter expenses and delays if our competitors challenge awards of contracts to us in competitive bidding, and any such challenge could result in the resubmission of bids on modified specifications, or in the termination, reduction or modification of the awarded contract.. Our inability to successfully negotiate, renew or complete these contracts due to third-party or governmental demands and delay and the highly competitive bidding processes for these contracts could affect our ability to offer these products to our clients, or to offer them to our clients at rates that are competitive to other forms of advertising, without adversely affecting our financial results.. Our financial performance may be adversely affected by many factors beyond our control. Certain factors that could adversely affect our financial performance by, among other things, decreasing overall revenues, the numbers of advertising customers, advertising fees or profit margins include:. <U+25AA> unfavorable fluctuations in operating costs, which we may be unwilling or unable to pass through to our customers;. <U+25AA> our inability to successfully adopt or our being late in adopting technological changes and innovations that offer more attractive advertising alternatives than what we offer, which could result in a loss of advertising customers or lower advertising rates, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial performance;. <U+25AA> unfavorable shifts in population and other demographics, which may cause us to lose advertising customers as people migrate to markets where we have a smaller presence or which may cause advertisers to be willing to pay less in advertising fees if the general population shifts into a less desirable age or geographical demographic from an advertising perspective;. <U+25AA> adverse political effects and acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts; and. <U+25AA> unfavorable changes in labor conditions, which may impair our ability to operate or require us to spend more to retain and attract key employees.. In addition, on June 23, 2016, the United Kingdom (the \"U.K.\") held a referendum in which voters approved an exit of the U.K. from the European Union (the \"E.U.\"), commonly referred to as \"Brexit\".  International outdoor is currently headquartered in the U.K. and transacts business in many key European markets.  As a result of the referendum, the British government has begun negotiating the terms of the U.K.'s withdrawal from the E.U.  It is unclear how these negotiations, or the U.K.'s ultimate exit from the E.U., will impact the economies of the U.K., the E.U. and other countries.  This uncertainty may cause our customers to closely monitor their costs and reduce the amount they spend on advertising.  Any of these or similar effects of Brexit could adversely impact our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition.. Future dispositions, acquisitions and other strategic transactions could pose risks. We frequently evaluate strategic opportunities both within and outside our existing lines of business. We expect from time to time to pursue strategic dispositions of certain businesses, as well as acquisitions. These dispositions or acquisitions could be material. Dispositions and acquisitions involve numerous risks, including:. <U+25AA> our dispositions may negatively impact revenues from our national, regional and other sales networks;. <U+25AA> our dispositions may make it difficult to generate cash flows from operations sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements, including our debt service requirements;. <U+25AA> our acquisitions may prove unprofitable and fail to generate anticipated cash flows;. <U+25AA> to successfully manage our large portfolio of outdoor advertising and other businesses, we may need to:. • recruit additional senior management as we cannot be assured that senior management of acquired businesses will continue to work for us and we cannot be certain that our recruiting efforts will succeed, and. • expand corporate infrastructure to facilitate the integration of our operations with those of acquired businesses, because failure to do so may cause us to lose the benefits of any expansion that we decide to undertake by leading to disruptions in our ongoing businesses or by distracting our management;. <U+25AA> we may enter into markets and geographic areas where we have limited or no experience;. <U+25AA> we may encounter difficulties in the integration of operations and systems; and. <U+25AA> our management's attention may be diverted from other business concerns.. Dispositions and acquisitions of outdoor advertising businesses may require antitrust review by U.S. federal antitrust agencies and may require review by foreign antitrust agencies under the antitrust laws of foreign jurisdictions. We can give no assurances that the DOJ, the FTC or foreign antitrust agencies will not seek to bar us from disposing of or acquiring outdoor advertising businesses or impose stringent undertaking on our business as a condition to the completion of an acquisition in any market where we already have a significant position.. Government regulation of outdoor advertising may restrict our outdoor advertising operations. 13. U.S. federal, state and local regulations have a significant impact on the outdoor advertising industry and our business. One of the seminal laws is the HBA, which regulates outdoor advertising on controlled roads in the United States. The HBA regulates the size and location of billboards, mandates a state compliance program, requires the development of state standards, promotes the expeditious removal of illegal signs and requires just compensation for takings. Construction, repair, maintenance, lighting, upgrading, height, size, spacing, the location and permitting of billboards and the use of new technologies for changing displays, such as digital displays, are regulated by federal, state and local governments. From time to time, states and municipalities have prohibited or significantly limited the construction of new outdoor advertising structures.  Changes in laws and regulations affecting outdoor advertising, or changes in the interpretation of those laws and regulations, at any level of government, including the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate, could have a significant financial impact on us by requiring us to make significant expenditures or otherwise limiting or restricting some of our operations. Due to such regulations, it has become increasingly difficult to develop new outdoor advertising locations.. From time to time, certain state and local governments and third parties have attempted to force the removal of our displays under various state and local laws, including zoning ordinances, permit enforcement and condemnation. Similar risks also arise in certain of our international jurisdictions.  Certain zoning ordinances provide for amortization which is the required removal of legal non-conforming billboards (billboards which conformed with applicable laws and regulations when built, but which do not conform to current laws and regulations) or the commercial advertising placed on such billboards after a period of years. Pursuant to this concept, the governmental body asserts that just compensation is earned by continued operation of the billboard over that period of time. Although amortization is prohibited along all controlled roads, amortization has been upheld along non-controlled roads in limited instances where permitted by state and local law. Other regulations limit our ability to rebuild, replace, repair, maintain and upgrade non-conforming displays. In addition, from time to time third parties or local governments assert that we own or operate displays that either are not properly permitted or otherwise are not in strict compliance with applicable law. If we are increasingly unable to resolve such allegations or obtain acceptable arrangements in circumstances in which our displays are subject to removal, modification or amortization, or if there occurs an increase in such regulations or their enforcement, our operating results could suffer.. A number of state and local governments have implemented or initiated taxes, fees and registration requirements in an effort to decrease or restrict the number of outdoor signs and/or to raise revenue.  From time to time, legislation also has been introduced in international jurisdictions attempting to impose taxes on revenue from outdoor advertising or for the right to use outdoor advertising assets.  In addition, a number of jurisdictions have implemented legislation or interpreted existing legislation to restrict or prohibit the installation of digital billboards, and we expect these efforts to continue. The increased imposition of these measures, and our inability to overcome any such measures, could reduce our operating income if those outcomes require removal or restrictions on the use of preexisting displays or limit growth of digital displays.  In addition, if we are unable to pass on the cost of these items to our clients, our operating income could be adversely affected.. International regulation of the outdoor advertising industry can vary by municipality, region and country, but generally limits the size, placement, nature and density of out-of-home displays. Other regulations limit the subject matter, animation and language of out-of-home displays. Our failure to comply with these or any future international regulations could have an adverse impact on the effectiveness of our displays or their attractiveness to clients as an advertising medium and may require us to make significant expenditures to ensure compliance and avoid certain penalties or contractual breaches. As a result, we may experience a significant impact on our operations, revenue, international client base and overall financial condition.. Regulations and consumer concerns regarding privacy and data protection, or any failure to comply with these regulations, could hinder our operations. We collect and utilize demographic and other information, including personally identifiable information, from and about our consumers, business partners and advertisers.  We are subject to numerous federal, state and foreign laws and regulations relating to consumer protection, information security, data protection and privacy, among other things.  Many of these laws are still evolving, new laws may be enacted and any of these laws could be amended or interpreted in ways that could harm our business.  In addition, changes in consumer expectations and demands regarding privacy and data protection could restrict our ability to collect, use, disclose and derive economic value from demographic and other information related to our consumers, business partners and advertisers, or to transfer employee data within the corporate group.  Such restrictions could limit our ability to offer targeted advertising opportunities to our business partners and advertisers.  Although we have implemented and are implementing policies and procedures designed to comply with these laws and regulations, any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with our policies or applicable regulatory requirements related to consumer protection, information security, data protection and privacy could result in a loss of confidence in us, damage to our brands, the loss of consumers, business partners and advertisers, as well as proceedings against us by governmental authorities or others, which could hinder our operations and adversely affect our business.. 14. If our security measures are breached, we could lose valuable information, suffer disruptions to our business, and incur expenses and liabilities including damages to our relationships with business partners and advertisers. Although we have implemented physical and electronic security measures that are designed to protect against the loss, misuse and alteration of our websites, digital assets and proprietary business information as well as, consumer, business partner and advertiser personally identifiable information, no security measures are perfect and impenetrable and we may be unable to anticipate or prevent unauthorized access.  A security breach could occur due to the actions of outside parties, employee error, malfeasance or a combination of these or other actions.  If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, we could lose competitively sensitive business information or suffer disruptions to our business operations, information processes or internal controls.  In addition, the public perception of the effectiveness of our security measures or services could be harmed; we could lose consumers, business partners and advertisers.  In the event of a security breach, we could suffer financial exposure in connection with penalties, remediation efforts, investigations and legal proceedings and changes in our security and system protection measures. Currently, not all of our systems are fully compliant with PCI-DSS and GDPR standards and, as a result, we may face additional liability in the event of a security breach involving payment card information.. Restrictions on outdoor advertising of certain products may restrict the categories of clients that can advertise using our products. Out-of-court settlements between the major U.S. tobacco companies and all 50 states, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and other U.S. territories include a ban on the outdoor advertising of tobacco products.  Other products and services may be targeted in the U.S. in the future, including alcohol products.  Most European Union countries, among other nations, also have banned outdoor advertisements for tobacco products and regulate alcohol advertising.  Regulations vary across the countries in which we conduct business.  Any significant reduction in advertising of products due to content-related restrictions could cause a reduction in our direct revenues from such advertisements and an increase in the available space on the existing inventory of billboards in the outdoor advertising industry.. Environmental, health, safety and land use laws and regulations may limit or restrict some of our operations. As the owner or operator of various real properties and facilities, we must comply with various foreign, federal, state and local environmental, health, safety and land use laws and regulations. We and our properties are subject to such laws and regulations relating to the use, storage, disposal, emission and release of hazardous and non-hazardous substances and employee health and safety as well as zoning restrictions. Historically, we have not incurred significant expenditures to comply with these laws. However, additional laws which may be passed in the future, or a finding of a violation of or liability under existing laws, could require us to make significant expenditures and otherwise limit or restrict some of our operations.. We are exposed to foreign currency exchange risks because a portion of our revenue is received in foreign currencies and translated to U.S. dollars for reporting purposes. We generate a portion of our revenues in currencies other than U.S. dollars. Changes in economic or political conditions, including Brexit, in any of the foreign countries in which we operate could result in exchange rate movement, new currency or exchange controls or other currency restrictions being imposed. Because we receive a portion of our revenues in currencies from the countries in which we operate, exchange rate fluctuations in any such currency could have an adverse effect on our profitability. A portion of our cash flows are generated in foreign currencies and translated to U.S. dollars for reporting purposes, and certain of the indebtedness held by our international subsidiaries is denominated in U.S. dollars, and, therefore, significant changes in the value of such foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our ability to meet interest and principal payments on our indebtedness.. Given the volatility of exchange rates, we cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively manage our currency transaction and/or translation risks. It is possible that volatility in currency exchange rates will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We expect to experience economic losses and gains and negative and positive impacts on our operating income as a result of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.. Doing business in foreign countries exposes us to certain risks not expected to occur when doing business in the United States. Doing business in foreign countries carries with it certain risks that are not found when doing business in the United States.  These risks could result in losses against which we are not insured.  Examples of these risks include:. <U+25AA> potential adverse changes in the diplomatic relations of foreign countries with the United States;. <U+25AA> hostility from local populations;. <U+25AA> the adverse effect of foreign exchange controls. <U+25AA> government policies against businesses owned by foreigners;. <U+25AA> investment restrictions or requirements;. <U+25AA> expropriations of property without adequate compensation;. 15. <U+25AA> the potential instability of foreign governments;. <U+25AA> the risk of insurrections;. <U+25AA> risks of renegotiation or modification of existing agreements with governmental authorities;. <U+25AA> difficulties collecting receivables and otherwise enforcing contracts with governmental agencies and others in some foreign legal systems;. <U+25AA> withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries;. <U+25AA> changes in tax structure and level; and. <U+25AA> changes in laws or regulations or the interpretation or application of laws or regulations.. Our International operations involve contracts with, and regulation by, foreign governments.  We operate in many parts of the world that experience corruption to some degree.  Although we have policies and procedures in place that are designed to promote legal and regulatory compliance (including with respect to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act), our employees, subcontractors and agents could take actions that violate applicable anti-corruption laws or regulations.  Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.. We identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017, and the occurrence of this or any other material weakness could have a material adverse effect on our ability to report accurate financial information in a timely manner.. Our management recently concluded that, as described under the heading \"Item 9A. Controls and Procedures,\" we had a material weakness as of December 31, 2017 and therefore did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting or effective disclosure controls and procedures, both of which are requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as of that date. The material weakness related to our failure to detect the misappropriation of funds by an employee of Clear Media Limited, an indirect, non-wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company whose ordinary shares are listed on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange.  The Company understands that several employees of Clear Media Limited are subject to an ongoing police investigation for misappropriation of funds. Although we concluded that the amount misappropriated was not material to our financial statements, it is possible that the internal controls in place on that date would not have detected a larger misappropriation that would have been material to our financial statements.. The misappropriation and the special investigation that we conducted as a result of the misappropriation kept us from filing this Annual Report on Form 10-K on or before its due date. We have implemented additional controls, and are taking additional steps, to remediate the material weakness. However, the remedial measures we have taken may not be adequate to prevent future misappropriation or avoid other control deficiencies or material weaknesses. There can be no assurance that any system of internal control over financial reporting will be successful in preventing all errors or fraud or in making all material information known in a timely manner to the appropriate levels of management. As a result, it is possible that our financial statements will not comply with generally accepted accounting principles, will contain a material misstatement or will not be available on a timely basis, any of which could cause investors to lose confidence in us and lead to, among other things, unanticipated legal, accounting and other expenses, delays in filing required financial disclosures, enforcement actions by government authorities, fines, penalties, the delisting of our common stock and liabilities arising from stockholder litigation.. Risks Related to Our Relationship with iHeartCommunications. Because iHeartCommunications controls substantially all of the total voting power of our common stock, investors will not be able to affect the outcome of any stockholder vote. As of December 31, 2017, iHeartCommunications indirectly owned (1) all of our outstanding shares of Class B common stock and (2) 10,726,917 shares of our Class A common stock, collectively representing approximately 89.5% of the outstanding shares of our common stock.  Each share of our Class B common stock entitles its holder to 20 votes and each share of our Class A common stock entitles its holder to one vote on all matters on which stockholders are entitled to vote.  As a result, as of December 31, 2017, iHeartCommunications controlled approximately 99% of the total voting power of our common stock.. As long as iHeartCommunications continues to own shares of our common stock representing more than 50% of the total voting power of our common stock, it will have the ability to direct the election of all members of our board of directors and, therefore, to exercise a controlling influence over our business and affairs, including any determinations with respect to mergers or other business combinations, our acquisition or disposition of assets, our incurrence of indebtedness, our issuance of any additional common stock or other equity securities, our repurchase or redemption of common stock or preferred stock, if applicable, and our payment of dividends in certain situations.  Similarly, iHeartCommunications will have the power to determine the outcome of matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including the power to prevent an acquisition or any other change in control.  Because iHeartCommunications' interests as our controlling stockholder may differ from other stockholders' interests, actions taken by iHeartCommunications with respect to us may not be favorable to all stockholders.. 16. iHeartCommunications has filed a voluntary petition for relief under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code, which  could cause significant uncertainties and risks for our operations and our liquidity. Pursuant to the Corporate Services Agreement, we are obligated to use various corporate services provided by iHeartCommunications and its affiliates, including treasury, payroll and other financial services, certain executive officer services, human resources and employee benefit services, legal services, information systems and network services and procurement and sourcing support. The iHeart Chapter 11 Cases could cause significant uncertainties and disrupt our operations and/or adversely affect our rights under the Corporate Services Agreement and the other intercompany agreements.. Also pursuant to the Corporate Services Agreement, substantially all of the cash generated from our domestic Americas operations is transferred daily into accounts of iHeartCommunications (after satisfying our controlled disbursement accounts and the funding requirements of the trustee accounts under the senior notes and the senior subordinated notes issued by Clear Channel Worldwide Holdings, Inc., an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of ours), where funds of ours and of iHeartCommunications are commingled, and recorded as \"Due from iHeartCommunications\" on the consolidated balance sheet. Prior to March 14, 2018, net amounts owed between us and iHeartCommunications were evidenced by revolving promissory notes. Pursuant to a final order entered by the Bankruptcy Court (the \"cash management order\"), following March 14, 2018, intercompany allocations that would have been reflected in adjustments to the balance of the Due from iHeartCommunications Note are instead reflected in an intercompany balance that accrues interest at a rate equal to the interest under the Due from iHeart Communications Note. We do not have any material committed external sources of capital independent from iHeartCommunications, and iHeartCommunications is not required to provide us with funds to finance our working capital or other cash requirements. In addition, we have no access to the cash transferred from us to iHeartCommunications other than pursuant to the cash management arrangements under the Corporate Services agreement and the cash management order of the Bankruptcy Court with respect to cash management.. We are an unsecured creditor of iHeartCommunications with respect to amounts owed under the Due from iHeartCommunications Note. On March 16, 2018, iHeartMedia and the other Debtors entered into a Restructuring Support Agreement (the \"iHeart RSA\") with certain creditors and equityholders. The iHeart RSA contemplates that our business will be separated from iHeartCommunications at the conclusion of the iHeartMedia Chapter 11 Cases and that the Due from iHeartCommunications Note will receive treatment in a form and substance acceptable to the Debtors, to the Company and to certain consenting senior creditors of iHeartCommunications, which treatment will be set forth in a plan of reorganization and approved by the Bankruptcy Court. It is still early in the iHeart Chapter 11 Cases, and we cannot predict at this time the outcome of iHeartCommunications' efforts to restructure its indebtedness. As an unsecured creditor of iHeartCommunications, we do not expect that we will be able to recover all of the amounts owed to us under the Due from iHeartCommunications Note upon the implementation of any plan of reorganization that is ultimately accepted by the requisite creditors and approved by the Bankruptcy Court. If we do not recognize the expected recovery under the Due from iHeartCommunications Note, or if we cannot generate sufficient liquidity from our operations or other sources on a timely basis, we could experience a liquidity shortfall. In addition, any repayments that we received on the Due from iHeartCommunications Notes during the one-year preference period prior to the filing of the iHeart Chapter 11 Cases may potentially be avoidable as a preference and subject to recovery by the iHeartCommunications bankruptcy estate, which could further exacerbate any liquidity shortfall. At December 31, 2017, the principal amount outstanding under the Due from iHeartCommunications Note was $1,067.6 million, and, as a result of the loss we recognized during the fourth quarter of 2017, the asset recorded in \"Due from iHeartCommunications\" on the consolidated balance sheet was $212.0 million, which reflects management's best estimate of the cash settlement amount of the note.. Our agreements with iHeartCommunications impose obligations on, and iHeartCommunications' financing agreements effectively impose restrictions on, our ability to finance operations and capital needs, make acquisitions and engage in other business activities. We have entered into a Master Agreement, a Corporate Services Agreement, an Employee Matters Agreement, a Tax Matters Agreement, a Trademark License Agreement and a number of other agreements with iHeartCommunications setting forth various matters governing our relationship with iHeartCommunications while it remains a significant stockholder in us (the \"Intercompany Agreements\"). These agreements allow iHeartCommunications to retain control over many aspects of our operations, in addition to iHeartCommunications' ability to control us through its controlling ownership of our common stock. We are not able to terminate these agreements or amend them in a manner we deem more favorable so long as iHeartCommunications continues to own shares of our common stock representing more than 50% of the total voting power of our common stock. iHeartCommunications' financing agreements also impose a number of restrictions on us.. In addition, the Master Agreement and, in some cases, iHeartCommunications' financing agreements, include restrictive covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to:. • issue any shares of capital stock or securities convertible into capital stock;. • incur additional indebtedness;. 17. • make certain acquisitions and investments;. • repurchase our stock;. • dispose of certain assets; and. • merge or consolidate.. The rights of iHeartCommunications under these agreements, in addition to iHeartCommunications' ability to control us through its controlling ownership of our common stock, may allow iHeartCommunications to delay or prevent an acquisition of us that our other stockholders may consider favorable. In addition, the restrictions contained in these agreements limit our ability to finance operations and capital needs, make acquisitions or engage in other business activities, including our ability to grow and increase our revenue or respond to competitive changes.. Although we expect iHeartCommunications will continue to provide services to us under the Corporate Services Agreement during the iHeart Chapter 11 Cases, we currently expect that if our business is separated from iHeartCommunications at the ultimate conclusion of the iHeart Chapter 11 Cases as contemplated by the iHeart RSA (as defined above), the Corporate Services Agreement may terminate, be modified or be replaced with an agreement that gives effect to such separation, which could cause significant uncertainty for us. See \"iHeartCommunications has filed a voluntary petition for relief under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code, which could cause significant uncertainties and risks for our operations and our liquidity.\". We may be unable to replace the services iHeartCommunications provides us in a timely manner or on comparable terms. We negotiated our arrangements with iHeartCommunications in the context of a parent-subsidiary relationship prior to the initial public offering of our Class A common stock.  We cannot assure you that iHeartCommunications will continue to provide us with services during the iHeart Chapter 11 Cases, or that we will be able to replace these services in a timely manner or on comparable terms.  In addition, we currently expect that our business is separated from iHeartCommunications at the conclusion of the iHeart Chapter 11 Cases as contemplated by the iHeart RSA (as defined above), the Corporate Services Agreement may terminate, be modified or be replaced with an agreement that gives effect to such separation. We cannot provide assurance that the amount we pay iHeartCommunications for the services will be as favorable to us as that which may be available for comparable services provided by unrelated third parties.  Other Intercompany Agreements with iHeartCommunications also govern our relationship with iHeartCommunications and provide for the allocation of employee benefit, tax and other liabilities and obligations attributable to our operations.  The agreements also contain terms and provisions that may be more favorable than terms and provisions we might have obtained in arm's length negotiations with unaffiliated third parties.  While we cannot predict at this time the outcome of iHeartCommunications' efforts to restructure its indebtedness, we currently expect that a plan of reorganization will provide for the termination, modification or replacement of some or all of these Intercompany Agreements.  If iHeartCommunications ceases to provide services to us pursuant to those Intercompany Agreements, our costs of procuring those services from third parties may increase.. The iHeart Chapter 11 Cases may give rise to unfavorable tax consequences for us.. Although the Company and its direct and indirect subsidiaries did not file Chapter 11 cases as part of the iHeart Chapter 11 Cases, the consummation of the iHeart Chapter 11 Cases may have an adverse impact on the Company and its subsidiaries.  The iHeart RSA contemplates the separation of our business from iHeartCommunications, with certain senior creditors of iHeartCommunications receiving the approximately 89.5% of our outstanding shares of common stock that are currently owned indirectly by iHeartCommunications.  It has not yet been determined whether such separation will be structured as a taxable transaction or as a tax-free reorganization.  In either case, there is a risk that such separation will give rise to a U.S. federal income tax liability.  If such liability were to arise, we would be jointly liable for such tax liability under federal law and, while we would not anticipate that any such tax liability would be asserted against us in the first instance, we may ultimately be liable for such liability if iHeartCommunications and its subsidiaries other than us fail to satisfy such liability.  Similar principles may apply for foreign, state and local income tax purposes where we file combined, consolidated or unitary returns with iHeartCommunications or its subsidiaries for federal, foreign, state and local income tax purposes.  In addition, we may be required to reduce certain of our tax attributes, including net operating loss carryforwards, as a result of any cancellation of indebtedness income realized by the Debtors in connection with the iHeart Chapter 11 Cases.. Transfers of our equity, issuances of equity in connection with the iHeart Chapter 11 Cases, and cancellation of indebtedness income realized by the Debtors in the iHeart Chapter 11 Cases may impair our ability to utilize our federal income tax net operating loss carryforwards in future years.. Under federal income tax law, a corporation is generally permitted to deduct from taxable income net operating losses carried forward from prior years. We are attributed a portion of the U.S. federal net operating loss carryforward of the iHeartMedia consolidated group. Our ability to utilize these net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income and to reduce federal income tax liability is subject to certain requirements and restrictions. If we experience an \"ownership change,\" as defined. 18. in section 382 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code, then our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards may be substantially limited, which could have a negative impact on our financial position and results of operations. Generally, there is an \"ownership change\" if one or more shareholders owning 5% or more of a corporation's common stock have aggregate increases in their ownership of such stock of more than 50 percentage points over the prior three-year period. Following the implementation of a plan of reorganization in the iHeart Chapter 11 Cases, it is expected that we will experience an \"ownership change.\"  Under section 382 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code, absent an application exception, if a corporation undergoes an \"ownership change,\" the amount of its net operating losses that may be utilized to offset future taxable income generally is subject to an annual limitation on the amount of federal income tax net operating loss carry-forwards existing prior to the change that it could utilize to offset its taxable income in any future taxable year to an amount generally equal to the value of its stock immediately prior to the ownership change multiplied by the long-term tax-exempt rate, subject to adjustments to reflect the differences between the fair market value of the corporation's assets and the tax basis in such assets. Because the value of our stock can fluctuate materially, it is possible an ownership change would materially limit our ability to utilize our substantial federal income tax net operating loss carry-forwards in the future.  In addition, our net operating losses may be subject to reduction as a result of any cancellation of indebtedness income realized by the Debtors in connection with the iHeart Chapter 11 Cases. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to utilize our federal income tax net operating loss carry-forwards to offset future taxable income.. Conflicts of interest may arise between iHeartCommunications and us in the Chapter 11 Cases that could be resolved in a manner unfavorable to us. Questions relating to conflicts of interest may arise between iHeartCommunications and us in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships, including in connection with the Chapter 11 Cases.  iHeartCommunications is owned indirectly by iHeartMedia. Two of our directors serve as directors of iHeartMedia. Three of our other directors are affiliated with iHeartMedia and its stockholders.  In addition, five of our executive officers serve as executive officers of iHeartMedia, including our CEO who also serves as the CEO of iHeartCommunications.. Areas in which conflicts of interest between iHeartCommunications and us could arise include, but are not limited to, the following:. <U+25AA> Cross officerships, directorships and stock ownership.  The ownership interests of our directors or executive officers in the common stock of iHeartMedia or service as a director or officer of both iHeartMedia and us could create, or appear to create, conflicts of interest when directors and executive officers are faced with decisions that could have different implications for the two companies.  For example, these decisions could relate to: (1) the nature, quality and cost of services rendered to us by iHeartCommunications; (2) disagreement over the desirability of a potential acquisition opportunity; (3) employee retention or recruiting; or (4) our capital structure, including our level of indebtedness and our dividend policy.. <U+25AA> Intercompany transactions.  From time to time, iHeartCommunications or its affiliates may enter into transactions with us or our subsidiaries or other affiliates.  Although the terms of any such transactions will be established based upon negotiations between employees of iHeartCommunications and us and, when appropriate, subject to the approval of the independent directors on our board or a committee of disinterested directors, there can be no assurance the terms of any such transactions will be as favorable to us or our subsidiaries or affiliates as may otherwise be obtained in arm's length negotiations.. <U+25AA> Intercompany agreements.  We have entered into certain agreements with iHeartCommunications pursuant to which it provides us certain management, administrative, accounting, tax, legal and other services, for which we reimburse iHeartCommunications on a cost basis.  In addition, we entered into a number of intercompany agreements covering matters such as tax sharing and our responsibility for certain liabilities previously undertaken by iHeartCommunications for certain of our businesses.  Pursuant to the Corporate Services Agreement between iHeartCommunications and us, we are contractually obligated to utilize the services of certain executive officers of iHeartCommunications as our executive officers until iHeartCommunications owns shares of our common stock representing less than 50% of the total voting power of our common stock, or we provide iHeartCommunications with six months prior written notice of termination.  The terms of these agreements were established while we were a wholly owned subsidiary of iHeartCommunications and were not the result of arm's length negotiations.  In addition, conflicts could arise in the interpretation or any extension or renegotiation of these existing agreements.. <U+25AA> Intercompany financing. iHeartCommunications may request and may exert pressure on us to engage in transactions or to agree to arrangements in connection with the iHeart Chapter 11 Cases for the purpose of supporting its liquidity needs, which may negatively affect our business operations, cash flows or capital structure.. 19. If iHeartCommunications engages in the same type of business we conduct or takes advantage of business opportunities that might be attractive to us, our ability to successfully operate and expand our business may be hampered. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that, subject to any contractual provision to the contrary, iHeartCommunications will have no obligation to refrain from:. <U+25AA> engaging in the same or similar business activities or lines of business as us; or. <U+25AA> doing business with any of our clients, customers or vendors.. In addition, the corporate opportunity policy set forth in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation addresses potential conflicts of interest between our company, on the one hand, and iHeartCommunications or iHeartMedia and its officers and directors who are officers or directors of our company, on the other hand.  The policy provides that if iHeartCommunications or iHeartMedia acquires knowledge of a potential transaction or matter which may be a corporate opportunity for both iHeartCommunications and us, we will have renounced our interest in the corporate opportunity.  It also provides that if one of our directors or officers who is also a director or officer of iHeartCommunications or iHeartMedia learns of a potential transaction or matter that may be a corporate opportunity for both iHeartCommunications and us, (1) we will have renounced our interest in the corporate opportunity, unless that opportunity is expressly offered to that person in writing solely in his or her capacity as our director or officer, and (2) the director or officer will have no duty to communicate or present that corporate opportunity to us and will not be liable to us or our stockholders for breach of fiduciary duty by reason of iHeartCommunications' actions with respect to that corporate opportunity.. This policy could result in iHeartCommunications having rights to corporate opportunities in which both we and iHeartCommunications have an interest.. We are a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange (\"NYSE\") rules and, as a result, qualify for, and intend to rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements that may not provide as many protections as those afforded to stockholders of other companies. iHeartCommunications owns shares of our common stock representing more than 50% of the total voting power of our common stock and, as a result, we have elected to be treated as a \"controlled company\" under the NYSE corporate governance standards.  As a controlled company, we are exempt from the provisions of the NYSE's corporate governance standards requiring that: (1) a majority of our board consists of independent directors; (2) we have a nominating and governance committee composed entirely of independent directors and governed by a written charter addressing the nominating and governance committee's purpose and responsibilities; and (3) we have a compensation committee composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the compensation committee's purpose and responsibilities.  Although we currently have a compensation committee composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the compensation committee's purpose and responsibilities, we currently do not have a nominating and governance committee and a majority of our board of directors currently does not consist of independent directors.  We intend to continue using certain of these exemptions and, as a result: (1) we may not create or maintain a nominating and governance committee; (2) the nominating and governance committee (if one is created) and the compensation committee may not consist entirely of independent directors; and (3) our board of directors may not consist of a majority of independent directors.  Accordingly, you may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements.. We do not have control over our tax decisions and could be liable for income taxes owed by iHeartCommunications. As long as iHeartCommunications continues to own shares of our common stock representing at least 80% of the total voting power and value of our common stock, we and certain of our subsidiaries will be included in iHeartCommunications' consolidated group for U.S. federal income tax purposes for all pre-merger periods and iHeartMedia's consolidated group for post-merger periods.  In addition, we or one or more of our subsidiaries may be included in the combined, consolidated or unitary tax returns of iHeartCommunications for pre-merger periods and iHeartMedia for post-merger periods or one or more of its subsidiaries for foreign, state and local income tax purposes.  Under the Tax Matters Agreement, we pay to iHeartCommunications the amount of federal, foreign, state and local income taxes that we would be required to pay to the relevant taxing authorities if we and our subsidiaries filed combined, consolidated or unitary tax returns and were not included in the combined, consolidated or unitary tax returns of iHeartCommunications or its subsidiaries.  In addition, by virtue of its controlling ownership and the Tax Matters Agreement, iHeartCommunications effectively controls all of our tax decisions.  The Tax Matters Agreement provides that iHeartCommunications has the sole authority to respond to and conduct all tax proceedings (including tax audits) relating to us, to file all income tax returns on our behalf and to determine the amount of our liability to (or entitlement to payment from) iHeartCommunications under the Tax Matters Agreement.  This arrangement may result in conflicts of interest between iHeartCommunications and us.  For example, under the Tax Matters Agreement, iHeartCommunications is able to choose to contest, compromise, or settle any adjustment or deficiency proposed by the relevant taxing authority in a manner that may be beneficial to iHeartCommunications and detrimental to us.. 20. Moreover, notwithstanding the Tax Matters Agreement, federal law provides that each member of a consolidated group is liable for the group's entire tax obligation.  Thus, to the extent iHeartCommunications or other members of the group fail to make any United States federal income tax payments required by law, we would be liable for the shortfall.  Similar principles may apply for foreign, state and local income tax purposes where we file combined, consolidated or unitary returns with iHeartCommunications or its subsidiaries for federal, foreign, state and local income tax purposes.. If iHeartCommunications spins off our Class B common stock to the iHeartMedia stockholders, we have agreed in the Tax Matters Agreement to indemnify iHeartCommunications for its tax-related liabilities in certain circumstances. If iHeartCommunications spins off our Class B common stock to the iHeartMedia's stockholders in a distribution intended to be tax-free under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, which we refer to herein as the Code, we have agreed in the Tax Matters Agreement to indemnify iHeartCommunications and its affiliates against any and all tax-related liabilities if such a spin-off fails to qualify as a tax-free distribution (including as a result of Section 355(e) of the Code) due to actions, events or transactions relating to our stock, assets or business, or a breach of the relevant representations or covenants made by us in the Tax Matters Agreement.  If neither we nor iHeartCommunications is responsible under the Tax Matters Agreement for any such spin-off not being tax-free under Section 355 of the Code, we and iHeartCommunications have agreed to each be responsible for 50% of the tax-related liabilities arising from the failure of such a spin-off to so qualify.. Uncertainties in the interpretation and application of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 could materially affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate.. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. enacted comprehensive tax legislation, commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax Act). The Tax Act requires complex computations not previously required by U.S. tax law. As such, the application of accounting guidance for such items is currently uncertain. Further, compliance with the Tax Act and the accounting for such provisions require preparation and analysis of information not previously required or regularly produced. In addition, the U.S. Department of Treasury has broad authority to issue regulations and interpretative guidance that may significantly impact how we will apply the Tax Act and impact our results of operations in future periods. Accordingly, while we have provided a provisional estimate on the effect of the Tax Act in our accompanying audited financial statements, further regulatory or GAAP accounting guidance for the law, our further analysis on the application of the law, and refinement of our initial estimates and calculations could materially change our current provisional estimates, which could, in turn, materially affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate. There may also be significant future effects that these tax reforms will have on our financial results and our business strategies. In addition, there is a risk that states or foreign jurisdictions may amend their tax laws in response to these tax reforms, which could have a material impact on our future results.. Risks Related to Our Class A Common Stock. Our stock ownership by iHeartCommunications, provisions in our agreements with iHeartCommunications and our corporate governance documents, Delaware law and the Chapter 11 Cases may delay or prevent an acquisition of us that our other stockholders may consider favorable, which could decrease the value of your shares of Class A common stock. As long as iHeartCommunications continues to own shares of our common stock representing more than 50% of the total voting power of our common stock, it will have the ability to control decisions regarding an acquisition of us by a third party.  As a controlled company, we are exempt from some of the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE, including the requirement that our board of directors consist of a majority of independent directors.  In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors.  These provisions include restrictions on the ability of our stockholders to remove directors, supermajority voting requirements for stockholders to amend our organizational documents, restrictions on a classified board of directors and limitations on action by our stockholders by written consent.  Some of these provisions, such as the limitation on stockholder action by written consent, only become effective once iHeartCommunications no longer controls us.  In addition, our board of directors has the right to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer.  Delaware law also imposes certain restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock.  These restrictions under Delaware law do not apply to iHeartCommunications while it retains at least 15% or more of our Class B common stock.  Although we believe these provisions protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics and thereby provide for an opportunity to receive a higher bid by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. As a result of the filing of the iHeart Chapter 11 Cases, iHeartCommunications is operating as a \"debtor-in-possession\" under the jurisdiction of the Bankruptcy Court, and any acquisition of us by a third party would also require the approval of the Bankruptcy Court.. 21. The concentration of our stock ownership by iHeartCommunications could depress the market price for shares of our Class A common stock. As a result of the significant concentration of our stock ownership, we have a relatively small public float compared to the number of our shares outstanding, which may adversely affect the trading price for our Class A common stock because investors may perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies with controlling stockholders. As of December 31, 2017, iHeartCommunications, through its subsidiaries, held approximately 89.5% of our outstanding shares of common stock. In addition, the uncertainties caused by the iHeart Chapter 11 Cases may cause investors to perceive disadvantages in owning our Class A common stock.. Future sales or distributions of our shares could depress the market price for shares of our Class A common stock. iHeartCommunications is not subject to any contractual obligation that would prohibit it from selling, spinning off, splitting off or otherwise disposing of any shares of our common stock. iHeartCommunications may sell all or part of the shares of our common stock it owns or distribute those shares in connection with the iHeart Chapter 11 Cases.  The iHeart RSA contemplates that our business will be separated from iHeartCommunications and the shares of our common stock held by iHeartCommunications will be distributed to certain of iHeartCommunications' creditors at the conclusion of the iHeartMedia Chapter 11 Cases. Accordingly, we do not expect iHeartCommunications to maintain its ownership of our common stock. Sales or distributions by iHeartCommunications or by subsequent holders of our common stock of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our Class A common stock.. We currently do not pay regularly-scheduled dividends on our Class A common stock. We paid a special dividend on March 15, 2012, a special dividend on November 8, 2013 in connection with the settlement of litigation, a special dividend on August 11, 2014, a special dividend on January 7, 2016, a special dividend on February 4, 2016, a special dividend on February 23, 2017, a special dividend on October 5, 2017, a special dividend on October 31, 2017 and a special dividend on January 24, 2018.  We do not pay regularly-scheduled dividends and are subject to restrictions on our ability to pay dividends should we seek to do so in the future.  We are a holding company with no independent operations and no significant assets other than the stock of our subsidiaries.  We, therefore, are dependent upon the receipt of dividends or other distributions from our subsidiaries to pay dividends.  In addition, Clear Channel Worldwide Holdings, Inc.'s (\"CCWH\") senior notes and CCWH's senior subordinated notes contain restrictions on our ability to pay dividends.  If we elect not to pay dividends in the future or are prevented from doing so, the price of our Class A common stock must appreciate in order to realize a gain on your investment.  This appreciation may not occur.. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness.  At December 31, 2017, we had $5.3 billion of total indebtedness outstanding, including: (1) $2.7 billion aggregate principal amount of CCWH's senior notes, net of unamortized discounts of $4.2 million, which mature in November 2022; (2) $2.2 billion aggregate principal amount of CCWH's senior subordinated notes, which mature in March 2020; (3) $379.0 million aggregate principal amount outstanding of international subsidiary senior notes, net of unamortized premiums of $4.0 million, which mature in December 2020; and (4) $2.4 million of other debt. This large amount of indebtedness could have negative consequences for us, including, without limitation:. <U+25AA> requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to the payment of principal and interest on indebtedness, thereby reducing cash available for other purposes, including to fund operations and capital expenditures, invest in new technology and pursue other business opportunities;. <U+25AA> limiting our liquidity and operational flexibility and limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes;. <U+25AA> limiting our ability to adjust to changing economic, business and competitive conditions;. <U+25AA> requiring us to defer planned capital expenditures, reduce discretionary spending, sell assets, restructure existing indebtedness or defer acquisitions or other strategic opportunities;. <U+25AA> limiting our ability to refinance any of the indebtedness or increasing the cost of any such financing;. <U+25AA> making us more vulnerable to an increase in interest rates, a downturn in our operating performance, a decline in general economic or industry conditions or a disruption in the credit markets; and. <U+25AA> making us more susceptible to negative changes in credit ratings, which could impact our ability to obtain financing in the future and increase the cost of such financing.. If compliance with the debt obligations materially hinders our ability to operate our business and adapt to changing industry conditions, we may lose market share, our revenue may decline and our operating results may suffer.. 22. Our ability to make scheduled payments on our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness.. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets or operations, seek additional capital or refinance our indebtedness.  We may not be able to take any of these actions, and these actions may not be successful or permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations.  Furthermore, these actions may not be permitted under the terms of our existing or future debt agreements.. Our ability to refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and increase our debt service obligations and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. The terms of existing or future debt instruments may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations.  Our operations and our ability to successfully refinance or extend our debt may also be negatively affected by the iHeart Chapter 11 Cases.  If we cannot make scheduled payments on our indebtedness we will be in default under one or more of our debt agreements and, as a result we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.. Because we derive all of our operating income from our subsidiaries, our ability to repay our debt depends upon the performance of our subsidiaries and their ability to dividend or distribute funds to us. We derive all of our operating income from our subsidiaries. As a result, our cash flow and the ability to service our indebtedness depend on the performance of our subsidiaries and the ability of those entities to distribute funds to us. We cannot assure you that our subsidiaries will be able to, or be permitted to, pay to us the amounts necessary to service our debt.. The documents governing our indebtedness contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business. Our material financing agreements contain various covenants restricting, among other things, our ability to:. <U+25AA> make acquisitions or investments;. <U+25AA> make loans or otherwise extend credit to others;. <U+25AA> incur indebtedness or issue shares or guarantees;. <U+25AA> redeem, repurchase or retire our subordinated debt;. <U+25AA> create liens;. <U+25AA> enter into transactions with affiliates;. <U+25AA> sell, lease, transfer or dispose of assets;. <U+25AA> merge or consolidate with other companies; and. <U+25AA> make a substantial change to the general nature of our business.. These restrictions could affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to react to market conditions or take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise.  For example, such restrictions could adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, make strategic acquisitions, investments or alliances, restructure our organization or finance our capital needs.  Additionally, our ability to comply with these covenants and restrictions may be affected by events beyond our control.  These include prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions.  If we breach any of these covenants or restrictions, we could be in default under the agreements governing our indebtedness and, as a result, we would be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.. Downgrades in our credit ratings may adversely affect our borrowing costs, limit our financing options, reduce our flexibility under future financings and adversely affect our liquidity, and also may adversely impact our business operations. Our corporate credit ratings are speculative-grade. Our corporate credit ratings and ratings outlook are subject to review by rating agencies from time to time and, on various occasions, have been downgraded. In the future, our corporate credit rating and rating outlook could be further downgraded. Any further reductions in our credit ratings could increase our borrowing costs, reduce the availability of financing to us or increase the cost of doing business or otherwise negatively impact our business operations.. Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf.  This report contains various forward-looking statements which represent our expectations or beliefs concerning future events, including, without limitation, our future operating and financial performance, our ability to comply with the covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness and the availability of capital and the terms thereof.  Statements expressing. 23. expectations and projections with respect to future matters are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  We caution that these forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties and are subject to many variables which could impact our future performance.  These statements are made on the basis of management's views and assumptions, as of the time the statements are made, regarding future events and performance.  There can be no assurance, however, that management's expectations will necessarily come to pass.  Actual future events and performance may differ materially from the expectations reflected in our forward-looking statements.  We do not intend, nor do we undertake any duty, to update any forward-looking statements.. A wide range of factors could materially affect future developments and performance, including but not limited to:. <U+25AA> risks associated with weak or uncertain global economic conditions and their impact on the level of expenditures on advertising, including the effects of Brexit;. <U+25AA> our ability to service our debt obligations and to fund our operations and capital expenditures;. <U+25AA> industry conditions, including competition;. <U+25AA> our dependence on our management team and other key individuals;. <U+25AA> our ability to obtain key municipal concessions for our street furniture and transit products;. <U+25AA> fluctuations in operating costs;. <U+25AA> technological changes and innovations;. <U+25AA> shifts in population and other demographics;. <U+25AA> other general economic and political conditions in the United States and in other countries in which we currently do business, including those resulting from recessions, political events and acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts;. <U+25AA> changes in labor conditions and management;. <U+25AA> the impact of future dispositions, acquisitions and other strategic transactions;. <U+25AA> legislative or regulatory requirements;. <U+25AA> regulations and consumer concerns regarding privacy and data protection, and breaches of information security measures;. <U+25AA> restrictions on outdoor advertising of certain products;. <U+25AA> capital expenditure requirements;. <U+25AA> fluctuations in exchange rates and currency values;. <U+25AA> risks of doing business in foreign countries;. <U+25AA> the identification of a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting;. <U+25AA> our relationship with iHeartCommunications, including its ability to elect all of the members of our board of directors and its ability as our controlling stockholder to determine the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders and certain additional matters governed by intercompany agreements between us;. <U+25AA> the risks and uncertainties associated with the iHeart Chapter 11 Cases on us and iHeartCommunications, our primary direct or indirect external source of capital, which is operating as a \"debtor-in-possession\" under the jurisdiction of the Bankruptcy Court;. <U+25AA> the obligations and restrictions imposed on us by our agreements with iHeartCommunucations;. <U+25AA> the risk that we may be unable to replace the services iHeartCommunications provides us in a timely manner or on comparable terms;. <U+25AA> the risk that the iHeart Chapter 11 Cases may result in unfavorable tax consequences for us and impair our ability to utilize our federal income tax net operating loss carryforwards in future years;. <U+25AA> the impact of our substantial indebtedness, including the effect of our leverage on our financial position and earnings;. <U+25AA> the ability of our subsidiaries to dividend or distribute funds to us in order for us to repay our debts;. <U+25AA> the restrictions contained in the agreements governing our indebtedness limiting our flexibility in operating our business;. <U+25AA> the effect of credit ratings downgrades; and. <U+25AA> certain other factors set forth in our other filings with the SEC.. This list of factors that may affect future performance and the accuracy of forward-looking statements is illustrative and is not intended to be exhaustive.  Accordingly, all forward-looking statements should be evaluated with the understanding of their inherent uncertainty."
