[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. An investment in our securities involves certain risks, including those described below. You should consider carefully these risk factors together with all of the information included in this report before investing in our securities.. Risks Affecting All of Our Businesses. Our businesses are subject to operational and safety risks.. Provision of environmental, energy and industrial services to our customers by all four of our business segments involves risks such as equipment defects, malfunctions and failures, and natural disasters, which could potentially result in releases of hazardous materials, injury or death of our employees, or a need to shut down or reduce operation of our facilities while remedial actions are undertaken. Our employees often work under potentially hazardous conditions. These risks expose us to potential liability for pollution and other environmental damages, personal injury, loss of life, business interruption, and property damage or destruction. We must also maintain a solid safety record in order to remain a preferred supplier to our major customers.. While we seek to minimize our exposure to such risks through comprehensive training programs, vehicle and equipment maintenance programs, and insurance, such programs and insurance may not be adequate to cover all of our potential liabilities and such insurance may not in the future be available at commercially reasonable rates. If we were to incur substantial liabilities in excess of policy limits or at a time when we were not able to obtain adequate liability insurance on commercially reasonable terms, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected to a material extent. Furthermore, should our safety record deteriorate, we could be subject to a potential reduction of revenues from our major customers.. Our businesses are subject to numerous statutory and regulatory requirements, which may increase in the future.. Our businesses are subject to numerous statutory and regulatory requirements, and our ability to continue to hold licenses and permits required for our businesses is subject to maintaining satisfactory compliance with such requirements. These requirements may increase in the future as a result of statutory and regulatory changes. Although we are very committed to compliance and safety, we may not, either now or in the future, be in full compliance at all times with such statutory and regulatory requirements. Consequently, we could be required to incur significant costs to maintain or improve our compliance with such requirements.. 14. Table Of Contents. Failure to effectively manage acquisitions and divestitures could adversely impact our future results.. We continuously evaluate potential acquisition candidates and from time to time acquire companies that we believe will strategically fit into our business and growth objectives. In particular, we acquired in 2016 seven businesses for approximately $204.8 million and in 2017 four businesses for approximately $51.9 million, all subject to customary post-closing adjustments, and in February 2018 we acquired an industrial services business for a purchase price of approximately $120.0 million, subject to customary post-closing adjustments.  If we are unable to successfully integrate and develop acquired businesses, we could fail to achieve anticipated synergies and cost savings, including any expected increases in revenues and operating results, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.  We also continually review our portfolio of assets to determine the extent to which they are contributing to our objectives and growth strategy. In particular, we divested, in September 2016 our Catalyst Services business for approximately $50.6 million ($49.2 million net of cash divested) and in June 2017 our Transformer Services business for approximately $45.5 million, both subject to customary post-closing adjustments.. Our acquisitions may expose us to unknown liabilities.. Because we have acquired, and expect generally to acquire, all the outstanding shares of most of our acquired companies, our investment in those companies are or will be subject to all of their liabilities other than their respective debts which we paid  or will pay at the time of the acquisitions. If there are unknown liabilities or other obligations, our business could be materially affected. We may also experience issues relating to internal controls over financial reporting that could affect our ability to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or that could affect our ability to comply with other applicable laws.. A cyber security incident could negatively impact our business and our relationships with customers.. We use computers in substantially all aspects of our business operations and also mobile devices and other online activities to connect with our employees and customers. Such uses give rise to cyber security risks, including security breach, espionage, system disruption, theft and inadvertent release of information. Our business involves the storage and transmission of numerous classes of sensitive and/or confidential information and intellectual property including, but not limited to, private information about employees, and financial and strategic information about our Company and our business partners. Furthermore, as we pursue our strategy to grow through acquisitions and new initiatives that improve our operations and cost structure, we are also expanding and improving our information technologies, resulting in a larger technological presence and corresponding exposure to cyber security risk. If we fail to assess and identify cyber security risks associated with acquisitions and new initiatives, we may become increasingly vulnerable to such risks. Additionally, while we have implemented measures to prevent security breaches and cyber incidents, our preventative measures and incident response efforts may not be entirely effective. The theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation, or release of sensitive and/or confidential information or intellectual property, or interference with our information technology systems or the technology systems of third parties on which we rely, could result in business disruption, negative publicity, brand damage, violation of privacy laws, loss of customers, potential liability and competitive disadvantage.. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange could affect our financial results.. We earn revenues, pay expenses, own assets and incur liabilities in countries using currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In fiscal 2017, we recorded approximately 19% of our revenues outside of the United States, primarily in Canada. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate revenues, income and expenses as well as assets and liabilities into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. Therefore, increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar against other currencies in countries where we operate will affect our results of operations and the value of balance sheet items denominated in foreign currencies.. Certain adverse conditions have required, and future conditions might require, us to make substantial write-downs in our assets, which have adversely affected or would adversely affect our balance sheet and results of operations.. We review our long-lived tangible and intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. We also test our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment at least annually on December 31, or when events or changes in the business environment indicate that the carrying value of a reporting unit may exceed its fair value. Based on those results, during the third quarter of 2016, we determined that the then carrying amount of our  Lodging Services reporting unit exceeded the estimated fair value of that unit and we therefore then recognized a goodwill impairment charge of $34.0 million with respect to that unit. During and as of the end of each of 2017 and 2016, we determined that no additional asset write-downs were required. However, if conditions in any of the businesses in which we compete were to deteriorate, we could determine that certain of our assets were impaired and we would then be required to write-off all or a portion of our costs for such assets. Any significant write-offs would adversely affect our balance sheet and results of operations.. 15. Table Of Contents. Natural disasters or other catastrophic events could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Natural disasters such as hurricanes, typhoons or earthquakes could negatively affect our operations and financial performance. Such events could result in physical damage to one or more of our facilities or equipment, the temporary lack of an adequate work force in a market, and the temporary disruption in rail or truck transportation services which we rely on to deliver waste to our facilities. These events could prevent or delay shipments and reduce both volumes and revenue. Weather conditions and other event driven special projects also cause interim variations in our results. We may be required to suspend operations in some or all of our locations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation.. Additional Risks of Our Technical Services Business. The hazardous waste management business which our Technical Services segment conducts is subject to significant environmental liabilities.. We have accrued environmental liabilities valued as of December 31, 2017, at $185.5 million, substantially all of which we assumed in connection with certain acquisitions.  We calculate our environmental liabilities on a present value basis in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, which take into consideration both the amount of such liabilities and the timing when we project that we will be required to pay such liabilities. We anticipate our environmental liabilities will be payable over many years and that cash flows generated from our operations will generally be sufficient to fund the payment of such liabilities when required. However, events not now anticipated (such as future changes in environmental laws and regulations or their enforcement) could require that such payments be made earlier or in greater amounts than we now estimate, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We may also assume additional environmental liabilities as part of future acquisitions. Although we will endeavor to accurately estimate and limit environmental liabilities presented by the businesses or facilities to be acquired, some liabilities, including ones that may exist only because of the past operations of an acquired business or facility, may prove to be more difficult or costly to address than we then estimate. It is also possible that government officials responsible for enforcing environmental laws may believe an environmental liability is more significant than we then estimate, or that we will fail to identify or fully appreciate an existing liability before we become legally responsible to address it.. If we become unable to obtain at reasonable cost the insurance, surety bonds, letters of credit and other forms of financial assurance required for our facilities and operations, our business and results of operations would be adversely affected.. We are required to provide substantial amounts of financial assurance to governmental agencies for closure and post-closure care of our licensed hazardous waste treatment facilities should those facilities cease operation, and we are also occasionally required to post surety, bid and performance bonds in connection with certain projects. As of December 31, 2017, our total estimated closure and post-closure costs requiring financial assurance by regulators were $455.4 million for our U.S. facilities and $39.4 million for our Canadian facilities. We have obtained all of the required financial assurance for our facilities through a combination of surety bonds, funded trusts, letters of credit and insurance from a qualified insurance company. The financial assurance related to closure and post-closure obligations of our U.S. facilities will renew in 2017. Our Canadian facilities utilize surety bonds, which renew at various dates throughout 2017, as well as letters of credit.. Our ability to continue operating our facilities and conducting our other operations would be adversely affected if we became unable to obtain sufficient insurance, surety bonds, letters of credit and other forms of financial assurance at reasonable cost to meet our regulatory and other business requirements. The availability of insurance, surety bonds, letters of credit and other forms of financial assurance is affected by our insurers', sureties' and lenders' assessment of our risk and by other factors outside of our control such as general conditions in the insurance and credit markets.. The hazardous waste management industry in which we participate is subject to significant economic and business risks.. The future operating results of our Technical Services segment may be affected by such factors as our ability to utilize our facilities and workforce profitably in the face of intense price competition, maintain or increase market share in an industry which has in the past experienced significant downsizing and consolidation, realize benefits from cost reduction programs, invest in new technologies for treatment of hazardous waste, generate incremental volumes of waste to be handled through our facilities from existing and acquired sales offices and service centers, obtain sufficient volumes of waste at prices which produce revenue sufficient to offset the operating costs of our facilities, minimize downtime and disruptions of operations, and develop our field services business. In particular, economic downturns or recessionary conditions in North America, and increased outsourcing by North American manufacturers to plants located in countries with lower wage costs and less stringent. 16. Table Of Contents. environmental regulations, have adversely affected and may in the future adversely affect the demand for our services. Our Technical Services business is also cyclical to the extent that it is dependent upon a stream of waste from cyclical industries such as chemical and petrochemical. If those cyclical industries slow significantly, the business that we receive from them would likely decrease.. The extensive environmental regulations to which we are subject may increase our costs and potential liabilities and limit our ability to expand our facilities.. Our operations and those of others in the environmental services industry are subject to extensive federal, state, provincial and local environmental requirements in both the United States and Canada, including those relating to emissions to air, discharged wastewater, storage, treatment, transport and disposal of regulated materials, and cleanup of soil and groundwater contamination. In particular, if we fail to comply with governmental regulations governing the transport of hazardous materials, such failure could negatively impact our ability to collect, process and ultimately dispose of hazardous wastes generated by our customers. While increasing environmental regulation often presents new business opportunities for us, it often also results in increased operating and compliance costs. Efforts to conduct our operations in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, including environmental rules and regulations, require programs to promote compliance, such as training employees and customers, purchasing health and safety equipment, and in some cases hiring outside consultants and lawyers. Even with these programs, we and other companies in the environmental services industry are routinely faced with governmental enforcement proceedings, which can result in fines or other sanctions and require expenditures for remedial work on waste management facilities and contaminated sites. Certain of these laws impose strict and, under certain circumstances, joint and several liability on current and former owners and operators of facilities that release regulated materials or that generate those materials and arrange for their disposal or treatment at contaminated sites. Such liabilities can relate to required cleanup of releases of regulated materials and related natural resource damages.. From time to time, we have paid fines or penalties in governmental environmental enforcement proceedings, usually involving our waste treatment, storage and disposal facilities. Although none of these fines or penalties that we have paid in the past has had a material adverse effect upon us, we might in the future be required to make substantial expenditures as a result of governmental proceedings which would have a negative impact on our earnings. Furthermore, regulators have the power to suspend or revoke permits or licenses needed for operation of our plants, equipment, and vehicles based on, among other factors, our compliance record, and customers may decide not to use a particular disposal facility or do business with us because of concerns about our compliance record. Suspension or revocation of permits or licenses would impact our operations and could have a material impact on our financial results. Although we have never had any of our facilities' operating permits revoked, suspended or non-renewed involuntarily, it is possible that such an event could occur in the future.. Some environmental laws and regulations impose liability and responsibility on present and former owners, operators or users of facilities and sites for contamination at such facilities and sites without regard to causation or knowledge of contamination. In the past, practices have resulted in releases of regulated materials at and from certain of our facilities, or the disposal of regulated materials at third-party sites, which may require investigation and remediation, and potentially result in claims of personal injury, property damage and damages to natural resources. In addition, we occasionally evaluate various alternatives with respect to our facilities, including possible dispositions or closures. Investigations undertaken in connection with these activities may lead to discoveries of contamination that must be remediated, and closures of facilities might trigger compliance requirements that are not applicable to operating facilities. We are currently conducting remedial activities at certain of our facilities and paying a portion of the remediation costs at certain sites owned by third parties. While, based on available information, we believe these remedial activities will not result in a material effect upon our operations or financial condition, these activities or the discovery of previously unknown conditions could result in material costs.. In addition to the costs of complying with environmental laws and regulations, we incur costs defending against environmental litigation brought by governmental agencies and private parties. We are now, and may in the future be, a defendant in lawsuits brought by parties alleging environmental damage, personal injury, and/or property damage, which may result in our payment of significant amounts.. Environmental and land use laws also impact our ability to expand our facilities. In addition, we are required to obtain governmental permits to operate our facilities, including all of our landfills. Even if we comply with all applicable environmental laws, we might not be able to obtain requisite permits from applicable governmental authorities to extend or modify such permits to fit our business needs.. If our assumptions relating to expansion of our landfills should prove inaccurate, our results of operations and cash flow could be adversely affected.. When we include expansion airspace in our calculation of available airspace, we adjust our landfill liabilities to the present value of projected costs for cell closure and landfill closure and post-closure. It is possible that our estimates or. 17. Table Of Contents. assumptions could ultimately turn out to be significantly different from actual results. In some cases we may be unsuccessful in obtaining an expansion permit or we may determine that an expansion permit that we previously thought was probable has become unlikely. To the extent that such estimates, or the assumptions used to make those estimates, prove to be significantly different than actual results, or our belief that we will receive an expansion permit changes adversely in a significant manner, our landfill assets, including the assets incurred in the pursuit of the expansion, may be subject to impairment testing. Furthermore, lower prospective profitability may result due to increased interest accretion and depreciation or asset impairments related to the removal of previously included expansion airspace. In addition, if our assumptions concerning expansion airspace should prove inaccurate, certain of our cash expenditures for closure of landfills could be accelerated and adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow.. Additional Risks of Our Industrial and Field Services Business. A significant portion of our Industrial and Field Services business depends upon the demand for cleanup of major spills and other remedial projects and regulatory developments over which we have no control.. Our operations can be affected by the commencement and completion of cleanup of major spills and other events, customers' decisions to undertake remedial projects, seasonal fluctuations due to weather and budgetary cycles influencing the timing of customers' spending for remedial activities, the timing of regulatory decisions relating to hazardous waste management projects, changes in regulations governing the management of hazardous waste, secular changes in the waste processing industry towards waste minimization and the propensity for delays in the demand for remedial services, and changes in the myriad of governmental regulations governing our diverse operations. We do not control such factors and, as a result, our revenue and income can vary from quarter to quarter, and past financial performance for certain quarters may not be a reliable indicator of future performance for comparable quarters in subsequent years.. Additional Risks of Our Safety-Kleen Business. Fluctuations in oil prices may negatively affect our Safety-Kleen business.. A significant portion of our Safety-Kleen business involves collecting used oil from certain of our customers, re-refining a portion of such used oil into base and blended lubricating oils, and then selling both such re-refined oil and the recycled oil, or ''RFO,'' to other customers. Changes in the reported spot market prices of oil affect the prices at which we can sell our re-refined oil and RFO. If applicable rates increase or decrease, we typically will charge a higher or lower corresponding price for our re-refined oil and RFO. The price at which we sell our re-refined oil and RFO is also affected by changes in certain indices measuring changes in the price of heavy fuel oil, with increases and decreases in the indices typically translating into a higher or lower price for our RFO. The cost to collect used oil, including the amounts we pay to obtain a portion of our used oil and therefore ability to collect necessary volumes and the fuel costs of our oil collection fleet, typically also increases or decreases when the relevant indices increase or decrease. However, even though the prices we can charge for our re-refined oil and RFO and the costs to collect and re-refine used oil and process RFO typically increase and decrease together, there is no assurance that when our costs to collect and re-refine used oil and process RFO increase we will be able to increase the prices we charge for our re-refined oil and RFO to cover such increased costs, or that our costs to collect and re-refine used oil and process RFO will decline when the prices we can charge for re-refined oil and RFO decline. These risks are exacerbated when there are rapid fluctuations in these oil indices.. Environmental laws and regulations have adversely affected and may adversely affect Safety-Kleen's parts cleaning and other solvent related services.. In connection with its parts cleaning and other solvent related services, Safety-Kleen has been subject to fines and certain orders requiring it to take environmental remedial action. Safety-Kleen may also be subject to monetary fines, civil or criminal penalties, remediation, cleanup or stop orders, injunctions, orders to cease or suspend certain practices or denial of permits required for the operation of its facilities. The outcome of any proceeding and associated costs and expenses could have a material adverse impact on Safety-Kleen's financial condition and results of operations.. Recent and potential changes in environmental laws and regulations may also adversely affect future Safety-Kleen parts cleaning and other solvent related services. Interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations, or the adoption of new laws and regulations, may require Safety-Kleen to modify or curtail its operations or replace or upgrade its facilities or equipment at substantial cost, which we may not be able to pass on to our customers, and we may choose to indemnify our customers from any fines or penalties they may incur as a result of these new laws and regulations. On the other hand, in some cases if new laws and regulations are less stringent, Safety-Kleen's customers or competitors may be able to manage waste more effectively themselves, which could decrease the need for Safety-Kleen's services or increase competition, which could adversely affect Safety-Kleen's results of operations.. 18. Table Of Contents. Safety-Kleen is subject to existing and potential product liability lawsuits.. Safety-Kleen has been named from time to time as a defendant in product liability lawsuits in various courts and jurisdictions throughout the United States. As of December 31, 2017, Safety-Kleen was involved in approximately 52 such proceedings (including cases which have been settled but not formally dismissed) wherein persons claim personal injury resulting from the use of its parts cleaning equipment or cleaning products. These proceedings typically involve allegations that the solvents used in Safety-Kleen's parts cleaning equipment contain contaminants or that Safety-Kleen's recycling process does not effectively remove the contaminants that become entrained in the solvents during their use. In addition, certain claimants assert that Safety-Kleen failed to adequately warn the product user of potential risks, including a historic failure to warn that such solvents contain trace amounts of toxic or hazardous substances such as benzene. Although Safety-Kleen maintains insurance that we believe will provide coverage for these claims (over amounts accrued for self-insured retentions and deductibles in certain limited cases), this insurance may not provide coverage for potential awards of punitive damages against Safety-Kleen. Although Safety-Kleen has vigorously defended and will continue to vigorously defend itself and the safety of its products against all of these claims, these lawsuits are subject to many uncertainties and outcomes cannot be predicted with assurance. Safety-Kleen may also be named in similar additional lawsuits in the future, including claims for which insurance coverage may not be available. If any one or more of these lawsuits were decided unfavorably against Safety-Kleen and the plaintiffs were awarded punitive damages, or if insurance coverage were not available for any such claim, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, if any one or more of these lawsuits were decided unfavorably against Safety-Kleen, such outcome may encourage more lawsuits against us.. Safety-Kleen is dependent on third parties for manufacturing the majority of its equipment.. Safety-Kleen does not manufacture the majority of the equipment, including parts washers, that Safety-Kleen places at customer sites. Accordingly, Safety-Kleen relies on a limited number of third-party suppliers for manufacturing this equipment. The supply of third-party equipment could be interrupted or halted by a termination of Safety-Kleen's relationships, a failure of quality control or other operational problems at such suppliers or a significant decline in their financial condition. If Safety-Kleen were not able to retain these providers or obtain its requests from them, Safety-Kleen may not be able to obtain alternate providers in a timely manner or on economically attractive terms and, as a result, Safety-Kleen may not be able to compete successfully for new business, complete existing engagements profitably or retain its existing customers. Additionally, if Safety-Kleen's third-party suppliers provide defective equipment, Safety-Kleen may be subject to reputational damage or product liability claims which may negatively impact its reputation, financial condition and results of operations. Further, Safety-Kleen generally does not have long-term contracts with its third-party suppliers, and as a result those suppliers may increase the price of the equipment they provide, which may hurt Safety-Kleen's results of operations.. Additional Risks of Our Oil, Gas and Lodging Services Businesses. A large portion of our Oil and Gas Field Services and Lodging Services businesses are dependent on the oil and gas industry in Western Canada, and declines in oil and gas investment and exploration in that region have adversely affected and could in the future adversely affect our business.. Our Oil and Gas Field Services and Lodging Services businesses generate a significant portion of their total revenues from customers in the oil and gas industry operating in Western Canada, although a majority of the services we provide to such customers relate to oil and gas refining which is less volatile than oil and gas exploration. Accordingly, declines in the general level of oil and gas investment and exploration in Western Canada have had and could potentially have significant adverse effects on the revenues and profitability of these businesses. Such declines have occurred and could potentially occur in the future if reductions in the commodity prices of oil and gas result in reduced oil and gas investment and exploration and refining. Such declines could also be triggered by technological and regulatory changes, such as those affecting the availability and cost of alternative energy sources and other changes in industry and worldwide economic and political conditions.. Many of our major customers conduct a significant portion of their operations in the Alberta oil sands. The Alberta oil sands contain large oil deposits, but extraction may involve significantly greater cost and environmental concerns than conventional drilling. While we believe our major involvement in the oil sands region will provide future growth opportunities, such involvement also increases the risk that our business will be adversely affected if future economic activity in the Alberta oil sands were to further decline. Major factors that could cause such a decline might include a prolonged reduction in the commodity price of oil and future changes in environmental restrictions and regulations. The downturn in worldwide economic conditions and in the commodity price of oil and gas which has occurred in recent years and continues to occur has caused certain of our customers to delay a number of large projects in the planning and early development phases within the oil sands region. In addition, customers are revisiting their operating budgets and challenging their suppliers to reduce costs and achieve better efficiencies in their work programs.. 19. Table Of Contents. All of our major Canadian lodges are located on land subject to leases; if we were unable to renew a lease, we could be materially and adversely affected.. All of our major Canadian lodges are located on land subject to leases. Accordingly, while we own the accommodations assets and can move them to other locations, if necessary, we only own a leasehold in those properties. If we were found to be in breach of a lease, we could lose the right to use the property. In addition, unless we can extend the terms of these leases before their expiration, we would lose our right to operate our facilities located on these properties upon expiration of the leases. In that event, we would be required to remove our accommodations assets and remediate the sites. We may not be able to renew our leases upon expiration on similar terms, or at all, and if we were unable to renew leases on similar terms, it may have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, if we were to lose the right to use a lodge due to non-renewal of a lease, we would be unable to derive income from such lodge, which could materially and adversely affect us.. Risks Relating to Our Levels of Debt and Letters of Credit. Our substantial levels of outstanding debt and letters of credit could adversely affect our financial condition and ability to fulfill our obligations.. As of December 31, 2017, we had outstanding $1.2 billion of senior unsecured notes, $398.0 million of senior secured term loan, and $134.1 million of letters of credit. Our substantial levels of outstanding debt and letters of credit may:. • adversely impact our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes or to repurchase our senior unsecured notes from holders upon any change of control;. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to payment of interest on our debt and fees on our letters of credit, which reduces the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes;. • subject us to the risk of increased sensitivity to interest rate increases based upon variable interest rates, including our senior secured term loan and borrowings (if any) under our revolving credit facility;. • increase the possibility of an event of default under the financial and operating covenants contained in our debt instruments; and. • limit our ability to adjust to rapidly changing market conditions, reduce our ability to withstand competitive pressures and make us more vulnerable to a downturn in general economic conditions of our business than our competitors with less debt.. Our ability to make scheduled payments of principal or interest with respect to our debt, including our outstanding senior unsecured notes, our secured term loan, any revolving loans and our capital leases, and to pay fee obligations with respect to our letters of credit, will depend on our ability to generate cash and our future financial results. If we were unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt and letter of credit fee obligations, we might be required to refinance all or a portion of our existing debt and letter of credit facilities or to obtain new or additional such facilities. However, we might not be able to obtain any such new or additional facilities on favorable terms or at all.. Despite our substantial levels of outstanding debt and letters of credit, we could incur substantially more debt and letter of credit obligations in the future.. Although our revolving credit agreement and the indentures and loan agreement governing our other outstanding debt contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional debt (including, for this purpose, reimbursement obligations under outstanding letters of credit), these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions and the additional debt which we might incur in the future in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. In particular, we had available at December 31, 2017, up to an additional approximately $217.8 million for additional borrowings and letters of credit under our revolving credit facility. Our revolving credit agreement and the indentures and loan agreement governing our other outstanding debt also allow us to borrow significant amounts of money from other sources. These restrictions also do not prevent us from incurring obligations (such as operating leases) that do not constitute \"debt\" or \"indebtedness\" as defined in the relevant agreements. To the extent we incur in the future additional debt and letter of credit or other obligations, the related risks would increase.. The covenants in our debt agreements restrict our ability to operate our business and might lead to a default under our debt agreements.. Our revolving credit agreement and the indentures and loan agreement governing our other outstanding debt limit, among. 20. Table Of Contents. other things, our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to:. • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness (including, for this purpose, reimbursement obligations under letters of credit) or issue preferred stock;. • pay dividends or make other distributions to our stockholders;. • purchase or redeem capital stock or subordinated indebtedness;. • make investments;. • create liens;. • incur restrictions on the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments to us;. • sell assets, including capital stock of our subsidiaries;. • consolidate or merge with or into other companies or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; and. • engage in transactions with affiliates.. As a result of these covenants, we may not be able to respond to changes in business and economic conditions and to obtain additional financing, if needed, and we may be prevented from engaging in transactions that might otherwise be beneficial to us. Our revolving credit facility requires, and our future credit facilities may require, us to maintain certain financial ratios and satisfy certain other financial condition tests. Our ability to meet these financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not be able to meet those tests. The breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our outstanding or future debt. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under such debts, including accrued interest or other obligations, to be immediately due and payable. If amounts outstanding under such debt were accelerated, our assets might not be sufficient to repay in full that debt and our other debt.. Our revolving credit agreement and the indentures and loan agreement governing our other outstanding debt also contain cross-default and cross-acceleration provisions. Under these provisions, a default or acceleration under one instrument governing our debt may constitute a default under our other debt instruments that contain cross-default and cross-acceleration provisions, which could result in the related debt and the debt under such other instruments becoming immediately due and payable. In such event, we would need to raise funds from alternative sources, which funds might not be available to us on favorable terms, on a timely basis or at all. Alternatively, such a default could require us to sell assets and otherwise curtail operations to pay our creditors. The proceeds of such a sale of assets, or curtailment of operations, might not enable us to pay all of our liabilities.. Other Risks Relating to Our Common Stock. The Massachusetts Business Corporation Act and our By-Laws contain certain anti-takeover provisions.. Sections 8.06 and 7.02 of the Massachusetts Business Corporation Act provide that Massachusetts corporations which are publicly-held must have a staggered board of directors and that written demand by holders of at least 40% of the outstanding shares of each relevant voting group of stockholders is required for stockholders to call a special meeting unless such corporations take certain actions to affirmatively \"opt-out\" of such requirements. In accordance with these provisions, our By-Laws provide for a staggered board of directors which consists of three classes of directors of which one class is elected each year for a three-year term, and require that written application by holders of at least 25% (which is less than the 40% which would otherwise be applicable without such a specific provision in our By-Laws) of our outstanding shares of common stock is required for stockholders to call a special meeting. In addition, our By-Laws prohibit the removal by the stockholders of a director except for cause. These provisions could inhibit a takeover of our Company by restricting stockholders' action to replace the existing directors or approve other actions which a party seeking to acquire us might propose. A takeover transaction would frequently afford stockholders an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over then market prices."
