[1] "ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS. To compete effectively, we must continually improve existing products and introduce new products that achieve market acceptance.. The telecommunications equipment industry is characterized by rapid technological changes, evolving industry standards, changing market conditions and frequent new product and service introductions and enhancements. The introduction of products using new technologies or the adoption of new industry standards can make our existing products, or products under development, obsolete or unmarketable. In order to remain competitive and increase sales, we will need to anticipate and adapt to these rapidly changing technologies, enhance our existing products and introduce new products to address the changing demands of our customers.. 6. Many of our competitors have greater engineering and product development resources than we have. Although we expect to continue to invest resources in product development activities, our efforts to achieve and maintain profitability will require us to be selective and focused with our research and development expenditures. In addition, sales to certain broadband service providers may require third-party independent laboratory testing in order to obtain industry certifications in order to be able to sell to those customers. Further, our existing and development-stage products may become obsolete if our competitors introduce newer or more appealing technologies. If these technologies are patented or proprietary to our competitors, we may not be able to access these technologies.. If we fail to anticipate or respond in a cost-effective and timely manner to technological developments, changes in industry standards or customer requirements, or if we experience any significant delays in product development or introduction, our business, operating results and financial condition could be affected adversely.. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter, which may make budgeting for expenses difficult and may negatively affect the market price of our common stock.. Because many purchases by customers of our products relate to a specific customer project and are procured by the customer from time to time through purchase orders, the short-term demand for our products can fluctuate significantly. This fluctuation can be further affected by the long sales cycles necessary to obtain contracts to supply equipment for these projects, the availability of capital to fund our customers' projects, changes, or delays in customer deployment schedules and the impact of the government regulation to encourage service to unserved or underserved communities, rural areas or other high cost areas on customer buying patterns. These long sales cycles may result in significant effort expended with no resulting sales or sales that are not made in the anticipated quarter or fiscal year. Certain customers and prospective customers, typically larger broadband service providers, are conducive to these long sales cycles which may be multi-year efforts. Demand for our products will also depend upon the extent to which our customers and prospective customers initiate these projects and the extent to which we are selected to provide our equipment in these projects, neither of which can be assured. In addition, a sharp increase in demand could result in actual lead times longer than quoted, and a sharp decrease in demand could result in excess stock. These factors generally result in fluctuations, sometimes significant, in our operating results. Other factors that may affect our quarterly operating results include:. ·the volume and timing of orders from and shipments to our customers, particularly significant customers such as Customer A that accounted for 20%, 21% and 25% of sales in the years ended September 30, 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively, and Customer B that accounted for 15% and 16% in the years ended September 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively;. ·mergers and acquisitions activity among our customers;. ·work stoppages and other developments affecting the operations of our customers;. ·the timing of and our ability to obtain new customer contracts and the timing of revenue recognition;. ·the timing of new product and service announcements;. ·the availability of products and services;. ·market acceptance of new and enhanced versions of our products and services;. ·variations in the mix of products and services we sell;. ·the utilization of our production capacity and employees;. ·the availability and cost of key components of our products;. 7. ·changes in the valuation allowance relating to our deferred tax assets and the resulting income tax benefits or expenses; and. ·excess tax benefits for stock-based compensation.. Further, we budget our expenses based in part on expectations of future sales. If sales levels in a particular quarter are lower than expected, our operating results will be affected adversely.. Because of these factors, our quarterly operating results are difficult to predict and are likely to vary in the future. If our operating results are below financial analysts' or investors' expectations, the market price of our common stock may fall abruptly and significantly.. Our success depends upon adequate protection of our patent and intellectual property rights.. Our future success depends in part upon our proprietary technology. We attempt to protect our proprietary technology through patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets. However, these legal means afford us only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or remedies to gain or keep any advantages we may have over our competitors. Accordingly, we cannot predict whether these protections will be adequate, or whether our competitors will develop similar technology independently, without violating our proprietary rights.. Our competitors, many of which have significant resources, may make substantial investments in competing products and technologies, or may apply for and obtain patents that will prevent, limit, or interfere with our ability to manufacture or market our products. We may litigate to enforce patents issued to us and to defend against claimed infringement of the rights of others or to determine the ownership, scope, or validity of our proprietary rights and the rights of others.. On January 31, 2017, CommScope Technologies LLC filed a complaint against us asserting infringement of CommScope patents by certain Clearfield products. See Item 3, \"Legal Proceedings.\" This litigation may negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition due to the likely substantial cost of defense and potential diversion of the attention of company management away from operational activities. In addition, an adverse determination in this litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Additional litigation may be necessary in the future to defend or enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our patents and trade secrets, and to determine the validity and scope of our proprietary rights. Any additional litigation also may involve substantial costs and potential diversion of the attention of company management away from operational activities. Any claim of infringement against us could involve significant liabilities to third parties, could require us to seek licenses from third parties, and could prevent us from manufacturing, selling or using our products. The occurrence of this litigation or the effect of an adverse determination in the current litigation or similar future litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Intense competition in our industry may result in price reductions, lower gross profits and loss of market share.. Competition in the telecommunications equipment and services industry is intense. Our competitors may have or could develop or acquire marketing, financial, development and personnel resources that exceed ours. Our ability to compete successfully will depend on whether we can continue to advance the technology of our products and develop new products, the acceptance of our products among our customers and prospective customers and our ability to anticipate customer needs in product development, as well as the price, quality and reliability of our products, our delivery and service capabilities and our control of operating expenses.. 8. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against our current or future competitors. Increased competition from manufacturers of telecommunications equipment such as ours may result in price reductions, lower gross profit margins, and increased discounts to customers and loss of market share and could require increased spending by us on research and development, sales and marketing and customer support.. We rely on single-source suppliers, which could cause delays, increases in costs or prevent us from completing customer orders, all of which could materially harm our business.. We assemble our products using materials and components supplied by various subcontractors and suppliers. We purchase critical components for our products, including injected molded parts, various cabling, optical components, and connectors from third parties, some of whom are single- or limited-source suppliers. If any of our suppliers are unable to ship critical components, we may be unable to manufacture and ship products to our distributors or customers. If the price of these components increases for any reason, or if these suppliers are unable or unwilling to deliver, we may have to find another source, which could result in interruptions, increased costs, delays, loss of sales and quality control problems.. Further, the costs to obtain certain raw materials and supplies, such as fiber and copper cabling, are subject to price fluctuations, which may be substantial, because of global market demands. Many companies utilize the same raw materials and supplies in the production of their products as we use in our products. Companies with more resources than us may have a competitive advantage in obtaining raw materials and supplies due to greater purchasing power. Some raw materials or supplies may be subject to regulatory actions, which may affect available supplies. Furthermore, due to general economic conditions in the United States and globally, our suppliers may experience financial difficulties, which could result in increased delays, additional costs, or loss of a supplier.. The termination or interruption of any of these relationships, or the failure of these manufacturers or suppliers to supply components or raw materials to us on a timely basis or in sufficient quantities, likely would cause us to be unable to meet orders for our products and harm our reputation and our business. Identifying and qualifying alternative suppliers would take time, involve significant additional costs and may delay the production of our products. If we fail to forecast our manufacturing requirements accurately or fail to properly manage our inventory with our contract manufacturers, we could incur additional costs, experience manufacturing delays and lose sales. Further, if we obtain a new supplier or assemble our product using an alternative source of supply, we may need to conduct additional testing of our products to ensure the product meets our quality and performance standards. Any delays in delivery of our product to distributors or customers could be extended, and our costs associated with the change in product manufacturing could increase.. The failure of our third-party manufacturers to manufacture the products for us, and the failure of our suppliers of components and raw materials to supply us consistent with our requirements as to quality, quantity and timeliness could materially harm our business by causing delays, loss of sales, increases in costs and lower gross profit margins.. A significant percentage of our sales in the last three fiscal years have been made to a small number of customers, and the loss of these major customers would adversely affect us.. In fiscal year 2017, Customers A and B comprised approximately 20% and 15% of net sales, respectively In fiscal year 2016, Customers A and B comprised approximately 21% and 16% of net sales, respectively. Additionally, in fiscal year 2015, Customer A comprised approximately 25% of net sales. These customers purchase our products from time to time through purchase orders, and we do not have any agreements that obligate these major customers to purchase products in the future from us. The loss of any one or more of these customers, the substantial reduction, delay or cancellation in orders from any such customer or our inability to collect the accounts receivable from these customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.. 9. Further consolidation among our customers may result in the loss of some customers and may reduce sales during the pendency of business combinations and related integration activities.. We believe consolidation among our customers in the future will continue in order for them to increase market share and achieve greater economies of scale. Consolidation has impacted our business as our customers focus on completing business combinations and integrating their operations. In connection with this merger and acquisition activity, our customers may postpone or cancel orders for our product based on revised plans for technology or network expansion pending consolidation activity. Customers integrating large-scale acquisitions may also reduce their purchases of equipment during the integration period, or postpone or cancel orders.. The impact of significant mergers among our customers on our business is likely to be unclear until sometime after such transactions are completed. After a consolidation occurs, a customer may choose to reduce the number of vendors from which it purchases equipment and may choose one of our competitors as its preferred vendor. There can be no assurance that we will continue to supply equipment to the surviving communications service provider after a business combination is completed.. Our planned implementation of an enterprise resource planning (\"ERP\") software solution and other information technology systems could result in significant disruptions to our operations.. We plan to evaluate and potentially implement ERP software solutions and other complementary information technology systems over the next several years. Implementation of these solutions and systems is highly dependent on coordination of numerous software and system providers and internal business teams. The interdependence of these solutions and systems is a significant risk to the successful completion of the initiatives and the failure of any one system could have a material adverse effect on the implementation of our overall information technology infrastructure. We may experience difficulties as we transition to these new or upgraded systems and processes, including loss or corruption of data, delayed shipments, decreases in productivity as our personnel implement and become familiar with new systems, increased costs and lost revenues. In addition, transitioning to these new systems requires significant capital investments and personnel resources. Difficulties in implementing new or upgraded information systems or significant system failures could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our capital resources, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, we could incur material unanticipated expenses, including additional costs of implementation or costs of conducting business. These risks could result in significant business disruptions or divert management's attention from key strategic initiatives and have a material adverse effect on our capital resources, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Product defects or the failure of our products to meet specifications could cause us to lose customers and sales or to incur unexpected expenses.. If our products do not meet our customers' performance requirements, our customer relationships may suffer. Also, our products may contain defects or fail to meet product specifications. Any failure or poor performance of our products could result in:. ·lack of or delayed market acceptance of our products;. ·delayed product shipments;. ·unexpected expenses and diversion of resources to replace defective products or identify and correct the source of errors;. ·damage to our reputation and our customer relationships;. ·delayed recognition of sales or reduced sales; and. ·product liability claims or other claims for damages that may be caused by any product defects or performance failures.. 10. Our products are often critical to the performance of telecommunications systems. We offer customers limited warranty provisions. If the limitations on the product warranties are unenforceable in a particular jurisdiction or if we are exposed to product liability claims that are not covered by insurance, a claim could harm our business.. We are dependent on key personnel.. Our failure to attract and retain skilled personnel could hinder the management of our business, our research and development, our sales and marketing efforts and our manufacturing capabilities. Our future success depends to a significant degree upon the continued services of key senior management personnel, including Cheryl Beranek, our Chief Executive Officer and John Hill, our Chief Operating Officer. We have employment agreements with Ms. Beranek and Mr. Hill that provide that if we terminate the employment of either executive without cause or if the executive terminates her or his employment for good reason, we would be required to make specified payments to them as described in their employment agreements. We have key person life insurance on Ms. Beranek and Mr. Hill. Further, our future success also depends on our continuing ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified managerial, technical and sales personnel. Our inability to retain or attract qualified personnel could have a significant negative effect and thereby materially harm our business and financial condition.. We face risks associated with expanding our sales outside of the United States.. We believe that our future growth depends in part upon our ability to increase sales in international markets. These sales are subject to a variety of risks, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates, tariffs, import restrictions and other trade barriers, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, longer accounts receivable payment cycles, potentially adverse tax consequences, and export license requirements. In addition, we are subject to the risks inherent in conducting business internationally, including political and economic instability and unexpected changes in diplomatic and trade relationships. Currency fluctuations may also increase the relative price of our product in international markets and thereby could also cause our products to become less affordable or less price competitive than those of international manufacturers. These risks associated with international operations may have a material adverse effect on our revenue from or costs associated with international sales.. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by economic conditions and the effects of these conditions on our customers' businesses.. Adverse changes in economic conditions, including the recent recession in the United States, have resulted and may continue to result in lower spending among our customers and contribute to decreased sales to our distributors and customers. Further, our business may be adversely affected by factors such as downturns in economic activity in specific geographic areas or in the telecommunications industry; social, political or labor conditions; or adverse changes in the availability and cost of capital, interest rates, tax rates, or regulations. These factors are beyond our control, but may result in decreases in spending among customers and softening demand for our products. Declines in demand for our products will adversely affect our sales. Further, challenging economic conditions also may impair the ability of our customers to pay for products and services they have purchased. As a result, our cash flow may be negatively impacted and our allowance for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase.. Our stock price has been volatile historically and may continue to be volatile. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly.. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. Our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as quarterly variations in operating results, announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors, changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts, the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us, and new reports relating to trends in our markets or general economic conditions.. 11. In addition, the stock market is subject to price and volume fluctuations that affect the market prices for companies in general, and small-capitalization, high-technology companies like us in particular. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Further, any failure by us to meet or exceed the expectations of financial analysts or investors is likely to cause a decline in our common stock price. Further, recent economic conditions have resulted in significant fluctuations in stock prices for many companies, including Clearfield. We cannot predict when the stock markets and the market for our common stock may stabilize. In addition, although our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Stock Market, our common stock has at times experienced low trading volume in our past.  Limited trading volume subjects our common stock to greater price volatility and may make it difficult for our shareholders to sell shares at an attractive price.. National Broadband Plan's transitioning from the USF to the CAF program may cause our customers and prospective customers to delay or reduce purchases.. In October of 2011, the Federal Communications Commission approved the National Broadband Plan which called for the restructuring of the long-standing USF (Universal Service Fund). A key element of this program is the transition out of the USF program, which awards an operating subsidy to telecommunications companies providing service to high-cost serving areas, to the Connect America Fund (CAF) which would provide a capital expenditure subsidy for the build-out of the country's broadband network. In addition, other universal service and inter-carrier compensation reforms scheduled to begin in the coming years will eliminate subsidies that carriers have traditionally relied upon to support service in high-cost, rural areas.  Our customers or prospective customers may delay purchases until the financial impact to them from the transition to the CAF becomes clear. To the extent our customers or prospective customers receive reduced subsidies under the CAF, they may reduce the spending associated with their projects, delay projects, or not pursue projects. Any of these actions may result in reduced demand for our products with these customers or prospective customers.. Future sales of shares of our common stock in the public market may negatively affect our stock price.. Future sales of our common stock, or the perception that these sales could occur, could have a significant negative effect on the market price of our common stock. This increase, in turn, could dilute future earnings per share, if any, and could depress the market value of our common stock. Dilution and potential dilution, the availability of a large amount of shares for sale, and the possibility of additional issuances and sales of our common stock may negatively affect both the trading price of our common stock and the liquidity of our common stock.. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents, Minnesota law and other agreements could prevent or delay a change in control of our company.. Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws, Minnesota law and other agreements may make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire, or discourage a third-party from attempting to acquire, control of our company, including:. ·the provisions of our bylaws setting forth the advance notice and information requirements for shareholder proposals, including nominees for directors, to be considered properly brought before shareholders;. ·the right of our board of directors to establish more than one class or series of shares and to fix the relative rights and preferences of any such different classes or series;. ·the provisions of Minnesota law relating to business combinations and control share acquisitions; and. 12. ·the provisions of our stock option plans allowing for the acceleration of vesting or payments of awards granted under the plans in the event of specified events that result in a \"change in control\" and provisions of agreements with certain of our executive officers requiring payments if their employment is terminated and there is a \"change in control.\". These measures could discourage or prevent a takeover of us or changes in our management, even if an acquisition or such changes would be beneficial to our shareholders. This may have a negative effect on the price of our common stock.. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses.. Keeping abreast of, and in compliance with, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public company disclosure requirements, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and in particular Section 404 of that Act relating to management certification of internal controls, new disclosures relating to \"conflict minerals\", the regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the rules of the NASDAQ Stock Market have required an increased amount of management attention and external resources. We intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving corporate governance and public disclosure standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities."
