[1] "Item 1A.   Risk Factors. An investment in our Company involves a high degree of risk of loss. You should carefully consider the risk factors discussed below and all of the other information included in this report before you make any investment decision regarding our securities. We believe the risks and uncertainties described below are the most significant we face. The occurrence of any of these risks could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects and reputation and could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. Additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or that we deem immaterial may also impair our business.. Risks Related to Our Business. We have a history of losses and may incur additional losses in the future.. In 2015, 2016 and 2017, we incurred pre-tax losses of $133.8 million, $12.4 million and $83.3 million, respectively. We may continue to incur losses, the amount of our losses may increase, and we may never achieve or sustain profitability, any of which would adversely affect our business, prospects and financial condition and may cause the price of our common stock to fall. In addition, to try to achieve or sustain profitability, we may take actions that result in material costs or material asset or goodwill impairments. For instance, in 2017, we recorded significant charges in connection with CEC's natural gas fueling compressor business, our closure of certain fueling stations, our determination of an impairment of assets as a result of the foregoing, and certain other actions. Any similar actions in the future could have material adverse consequences, including material negative effects on our financial condition, our results of operations and the trading price of our common stock.. Our success is dependent on the willingness of fleets and other consumers to adopt natural gas as a vehicle fuel, which may not occur in a timely manner, at expected levels or at all.. Our success is highly dependent on the adoption by fleets and other consumers of natural gas as a vehicle fuel. To date, adoption and deployment of natural gas vehicles have been slower and more limited than we anticipated. If the market for natural gas as a vehicle fuel does not develop at improved rates or levels, or if a market develops but we are not able to capture a significant share of the market or the market subsequently declines, our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results would be harmed.. The market for natural gas as a vehicle fuel is a relatively new and developing market characterized by competition, evolving government regulation and industry standards and changing consumer demands and behaviors.. Factors that may influence the adoption of natural gas as a vehicle fuel include, among others:. • Increases, decreases or volatility in the supply, demand, use and prices of crude oil, gasoline, diesel, natural gas and other vehicle fuels, such as electricity, hydrogen, renewable diesel, biodiesel and ethanol;. • Perceptions about the need for alternative vehicle fuels generally;. • Perceptions about the benefits of conventional and renewable natural gas relative to gasoline and diesel and other alternative vehicle fuels, including with respect to factors such as supply, cost savings, environmental benefits and safety;. • Natural gas vehicle cost, fuel usage, availability, quality, safety, convenience (to fuel and service), design and performance, generally and in our key customer markets and relative to comparable vehicles powered by other fuels;. • Increasing competition in the market for vehicle fuels generally, and the nature and impact of competitive developments in this market, including advances or improvements in non-natural gas vehicle fuels or engines powered by these fuels;. • The availability and effect of environmental, tax or other government regulations, programs or incentives that promote natural gas or other alternatives as a vehicle fuel, such as, for instance, the AFTC tax credit and the programs under which we generate credits by selling conventional natural gas and RNG as a vehicle fuel, including RINs and LCFS Credits;. • Adoption of government policies or programs that favor vehicles or vehicle fuels other than natural gas, including long-standing support for gasoline and diesel-powered vehicles and growing support for electric and hydrogen-powered vehicles;. 11. • The impact of, or potential for changes to, emissions requirements applicable to vehicles powered by gasoline, diesel, natural gas or other vehicle fuels, as well as emissions and other environmental regulations and pressures on crude oil and natural gas drilling, production, importing and transportation methods and fueling stations for these fuels; and. • The other risks discussed in these risk factors.. If there are advances or improvements in non-natural gas vehicle fuels or engines powered by these fuels, demand for natural gas vehicles may decline.. Use of electric heavy-duty trucks, buses and refuse trucks, which are key customer markets for our business, or the perception that electric vehicles providing satisfactory performance at an acceptable cost may soon be widely available for these or other applications, could reduce demand for natural gas vehicles generally and in these key markets. In addition, hydrogen, renewable diesel and other alternative fuels in development may prove to be, or may be perceived to be, cleaner, more cost-effective, more readily available or otherwise more beneficial alternatives to gasoline and diesel than conventional or renewable natural gas. Further, technological advances in the production, delivery and use of gasoline, diesel or other alternative vehicle fuels, or the failure of natural gas vehicle fuel technology to advance at an equal pace, could slow or limit adoption of natural gas vehicles. For example, advances in gasoline and diesel engine technology, including efficiency improvements and further development of hybrid engines, may offer a more cost-effective way for operators to use a cleaner vehicle fuel, which could reduce the likelihood that fleet customers convert their vehicles to natural gas. Additionally, technological advances related to ethanol or biodiesel, which are used as an additive to or substitute for gasoline and diesel fuel, may influence the market's perception of the need to diversify fuels at all and, as a result, negatively affect the growth of the natural gas vehicle fuel market.. Increases, decreases and general volatility in oil, gasoline, diesel and natural gas prices could adversely affect our business.. Prices for crude oil, the commodity used to make gasoline and diesel, today's most prevalent vehicle fuels, have been low in recent years, due in part to over-production and increased supply without a corresponding increase in demand. Market adoption of natural gas as a vehicle fuel could be slowed or limited if the over-supply and resulting low prices of crude oil, gasoline and diesel continue, or if the price of natural gas increases without corresponding increases in the prices of crude oil, gasoline and diesel. Any of these circumstances could decrease the market's perception of a need for alternative vehicle fuels generally, which could cause the success or perceived success of our industry and our business to materially suffer. In addition, if prices of gasoline and diesel decrease or prices of natural gas increase, we may not be able to offer our customers an attractive price advantage for CNG and LNG and maintain an acceptable margin on our sales. Any such failure could result in an inability to attract new customers or a loss of demand from existing customers, or could directly and negatively impact our results of operations if we are forced to reduce the prices at which we sell natural gas to try to avoid such an effect on our customer base.. Pricing conditions may also exacerbate the cost differential between natural gas vehicles and gasoline or diesel- powered vehicles, which may lead operators to delay or refrain from purchasing or converting to natural gas vehicles. Generally, natural gas vehicles cost more initially than gasoline or diesel-powered vehicles, because the components needed for a vehicle to use natural gas add to the vehicle's base cost. Operators then seek to recover such additional cost over time, through the lower costs of fueling natural gas vehicles. Operators may, however, perceive an inability to timely recover these additional initial costs if CNG and LNG fuel are not available at prices sufficiently lower than gasoline and diesel. Such an outcome could decrease our potential customer base and harm our business prospects.. Additionally, the price of natural gas, as well as the prices of crude oil, gasoline and diesel, has been volatile in recent years, and this volatility may continue. Fluctuations in natural gas prices affect the cost to us of the natural gas commodity. High natural gas prices adversely impact our operating margins when we cannot pass the increased costs through to our customers. Conversely, lower natural gas prices reduce our revenue when the commodity cost is passed through to our customers. As a result, these fluctuations in natural gas prices can have a significant and adverse impact on our operating results.. Factors that may cause fluctuations in gasoline, diesel and natural gas prices include, among others, changes in supply and availability of crude oil and natural gas, government regulations, inventory levels, consumer demand, price and availability of alternatives, weather conditions, negative publicity about crude oil or natural gas drilling, production or importing techniques and methods, economic and political conditions and the price of foreign imports.. With respect to natural gas supply, there have been efforts in recent years to ban or impose new regulatory requirements on the U.S. production of natural gas by hydraulic fracturing of shale gas reservoirs and other means, as well as on transporting, dispensing and using natural gas. Hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling techniques have resulted in a substantial increase in the proven natural gas reserves in the United States. Any changes in regulations that make it more expensive or unprofitable or. 12. otherwise impose additional burdens to produce natural gas through these techniques or others, or any changes to the regulations relating to transporting, dispensing or using natural gas, could lead to further volatility in, and generally increased, natural gas prices. If all or some combination of these factors cause continued or further volatility in natural gas, gasoline and diesel prices, our business and our industry could be materially harmed.. Vehicle and engine manufacturers produce very few natural gas vehicles and engines in our key customer and geographic markets, which limits our customer base and our sales of CNG, LNG and RNG.. Original equipment manufacturers produce a relatively small number of natural gas engines and vehicles in the U.S. and Canadian markets. Further, these manufacturers, over which we have no control, may not decide to expand, or they may decide to discontinue or curtail, their natural gas engine or vehicle product lines. The limited production of natural gas engines and vehicles increases the cost to purchase these vehicles and limits their availability, which restricts their large-scale introduction and adoption. As a result of these and other factors, the limited supply of natural gas vehicles could reduce the potential size of our customer base and the amount of our natural gas fuel sales, which could harm our results of operations, business and prospects.. Our business is influenced by environmental, tax and other government regulations, programs and incentives that promote natural gas or other alternatives as a vehicle fuel, and their adoption, modification or repeal could negatively impact our business.. Our business is influenced by federal, state and local government tax credits, rebates, grants and similar programs and incentives that promote the use of CNG, LNG and RNG as a vehicle fuel, including AFTC, which is not available for vehicle fuel sales made after December 31, 2017, and various government programs that make grant funds available for the purchase and construction of natural gas vehicles and fueling stations. Additionally, our business is influenced by laws, rules and regulations that require reductions in carbon emissions and/or the use of renewable fuels, such as the federal RFS Phase 2 and the California and Oregon Low Carbon Fuel Standards, under which we generate RINs and LCFS Credits by selling CNG, LNG and RNG as a vehicle fuel.. These programs and regulations, which have the effect of encouraging the use of CNG, LNG or RNG as a vehicle fuel, could expire or be repealed or amended for a variety of reasons. For example, parties with an interest in gasoline and diesel or alternative vehicle fuels other than natural gas, including lawmakers, regulators, policymakers, environmental organizations or other powerful groups, many of which have substantially greater resources and influence than we have, invest significant time and money in efforts to delay, repeal or otherwise negatively influence regulations and programs that promote natural gas or other alternative vehicle fuels. Further, changes in federal, state or local political, social or economic conditions could result in the modification or repeal of these programs or regulations. Any failure to adopt, delay in implementing, expiration, repeal or modification of these programs and regulations, or the adoption of any such programs and regulations that encourage the use of other alternative fuels or alternative vehicles over natural gas, could harm our operating results and financial condition.. We face increasing competition from a variety of businesses, many of which have far greater resources, experience, customer bases and brand awareness than we have, and we may not be able to compete effectively with these businesses.. The market for vehicle fuels is highly competitive. We believe the biggest competition for CNG and LNG use as a vehicle fuel is gasoline and diesel, as the vast majority of vehicles in our markets are powered by these fuels. We also compete with suppliers of other alternative vehicle fuels, including renewable diesel, biodiesel and ethanol, as well as producers and fuelers of alternative vehicles, including hybrid, electric and hydrogen-powered vehicles. Additionally, our stations compete directly with other natural gas fueling stations and indirectly with electric vehicle charging stations and fueling stations for other alternative vehicle fuels. We also face high levels of competition with respect to our other business activities, including our procurement and sale of RNG and our transport and sale of CNG through NG Advantage's virtual natural gas pipelines and interconnects.. A significant number of established businesses, including alternative vehicle and alternative fuel companies, refuse collectors, utilities and their affiliates, industrial gas companies, truck stop and fuel station owners, fuel providers and other organizations have entered or may enter the market for natural gas and other alternatives for use as vehicle fuel.  Many of these competitors have longer operating histories, more experience, larger customer bases, more expansive brand recognition, deeper market penetration and substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. As a result, they may be able to respond more quickly to changes in customer preferences, legal requirements or other industry or regulatory trends, devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products, adopt more aggressive pricing policies, dedicate more effort to infrastructure and systems development in support of their business or product development activities or exert more influence on the regulatory landscape that impacts the vehicle fuels market. Additionally, utilities and their affiliates typically have additional and unique competitive advantages, including a lower cost of capital, substantial and predictable cash flows, long-standing customer relationships, greater brand awareness and large and well-trained sales and marketing organizations. We may not be able to compete effectively against any of these organizations.. 13. We expect competition to increase in the vehicle fuels market generally and, if the demand for natural gas vehicle fuel increases, in the market for natural gas vehicle fuel. Any such increased competition may reduce our customer base and revenue and may lead to pricing pressure, reduced operating margins and fewer expansion opportunities.. Servicing our debt requires a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow from our business to pay our debt.. As of December 31, 2017, our total indebtedness was approximately $260.9 million in principal amount, and approximately $140.2 million, $54.5 million, $54.6 million, $4.2 million, $3.8 million and $3.6 million of this principal amount matures in 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021, 2022 and thereafter, respectively ($25.0 million matures in July 2018 and $110.5 million matures in October 2018). We expect our total interest payment obligations relating to our indebtedness to be approximately $15.6 million in 2018.. We generally intend to make payments under our various debt instruments when due and pursue opportunities for earlier repayment and/or refinancing if and when opportunities arise.. Our ability to make payments of the principal and interest on our indebtedness, whether at or before the applicable due date, depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors, including those described in these risk factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our business may not generate cash from operations that is sufficient to service our debt.. We may be required to pursue one or more alternatives to meet our debt obligations. For instance, we are permitted to issue up to 14.0 million shares of common stock to repay a portion of the principal amount of our outstanding 7.5% convertible notes. Any repayment of our debt with equity would increase the number of our outstanding shares and may significantly dilute the ownership interests of our existing stockholders. Additionally, any shortfall of cash from operations to service our debt may lead us to seek capital from other sources, such as selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt or obtaining additional equity capital or debt financing. Our ability to engage in any of these activities, should we decide to do so, would depend on the capital markets and the state of our industry, business and financial condition at the time, and we may not be successful in obtaining additional capital on desirable terms, at a desirable time or at all. Any failure to make payments on our debt when due, either in cash or stock, could result in a default on our debt obligations.. Certain of the agreements governing our indebtedness contain restrictive covenants, and any failure by us to comply with these covenants could also cause us to be in default under the agreements governing the indebtedness. In the event of any default on our debt obligations, whether due to a failure to pay amounts when due or a failure to comply with these restrictive covenants, the holders of the indebtedness could, among other things, elect to declare all amounts owed immediately due and payable. Any such declaration could require that we use all or a large portion of our available cash flow to pay such amounts, and thereby reduce the amount of cash available to pursue our business plans or force us into bankruptcy or liquidation.. The substantial amount of our indebtedness, combined with our other financial obligations and contractual commitments, could have other important consequences. For example, it could make us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general U.S. and worldwide economic, regulatory and competitive conditions, limit our flexibility to plan for or react to changes in our business or industry, place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or limit our ability to borrow or otherwise raise additional capital as needed.. We may need to raise additional capital to continue to fund our business or repay our debt, which may not be available when needed, on acceptable terms or at all.. As of December 31, 2017 we had total liquidity of $177.5 million consisting of cash and cash equivalents of $36.1 million and short-term investments of $141.4 million. Our business plan calls for approximately $15.0 million in capital expenditures for 2018 and as much as $45.0 million by NG Advantage, the majority of which will be financed by third parties, as well as additional capital expenditures thereafter. We will also require capital to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, pay our other operating expenses, and for any mergers, acquisitions or strategic investments, transactions or relationships we may pursue. If we cannot fund any of these activities with cash provided by our operations, we may seek to obtain additional capital from other sources, such as by selling assets or pursuing debt or equity financing.. Asset sales and equity or debt financing may not be available when needed, on terms favorable to us or at all. Any sale of our assets may limit our operational capacity and could limit or eliminate any revenue streams or business plans that are dependent on the sold assets. Additional issuances of our common stock or securities convertible into our common stock would increase the number of our outstanding shares and dilute the ownership interest of our existing stockholders. We may also pursue debt financing, as the agreements governing much of our existing indebtedness do not restrict our ability to incur additional secured or unsecured. 14. debt or require us to maintain financial ratios or specified levels of net worth or liquidity. Debt financing options that we may pursue include, among others, equipment financing, sales of convertible notes, high-yield debt, asset-based loans, term loans, municipal bond financing, loans secured by receivables or inventory or commercial bank financing. Any debt financing we obtain may require us to make significant interest payments and to pledge some or all of our assets as security. In addition, higher levels of indebtedness could increase our risk of non-repayment, adversely affect our creditworthiness and amplify the other risks associated with our existing debt, which are discussed elsewhere in these risk factors and include a limited ability to obtain further financing as needed and restricted flexibility in responding to any changes in business, industry or economic conditions. Further, we may incur substantial costs in pursuing any capital-raising transactions, including investment banking, legal and accounting fees. On the other hand, if we are unable to obtain capital in amounts sufficient to fund our contractual obligations, business plans, capital expenditures, other expenses and any mergers, acquisitions or strategic investments, transactions or relationships, we could be forced to suspend, delay or curtail these plans, expenditures or other activities. Any such outcome could negatively affect our business, performance, liquidity and prospects.. If America's Natural Gas Highway (\"ANGH\") fails or we are not able to fuel a greater number of natural gas heavy-duty trucks, our financial results and business would be materially adversely affected.. We are seeking to fuel a greater number of natural gas heavy-duty trucks, and in connection with this effort, we have built ANGH, a nationwide network of natural gas truck-friendly fueling stations. Our ability to successfully execute in the heavy -duty truck market is subject to substantial risks, including, among others:. •The adoption of natural gas engines that are well-suited for heavy-duty trucks is essential to our success in this market.  We have no influence over the development, production, cost, availability or sales and marketing of these engines. Cummins Westport is the only natural gas engine manufacturer for the heavy -duty truck market in the United States, and we have no control over whether and the extent to which Cummins Westport will remain in the natural gas engine business or whether other manufacturers will enter this business.. •Our success in the heavy -duty truck market depends on the expansion of the U.S. natural gas heavy-duty truck market.  Operators may not adopt heavy-duty natural gas trucks due to cost, availability, actual or perceived performance issues or other factors, many of which are beyond our control. To date, adoption and deployment of natural gas trucks have been slower and more limited than we anticipated.. •Truck and other vehicle operators may not fuel at our stations due to lack of access or convenience, fuel prices or other factors.. •Our ANGH stations may experience mechanical or operational difficulties, which could require significant costs to repair and could reduce customer confidence in our stations.. •We may fail to accurately predict demand in any of the locations in which we build and open ANGH stations. As a result, we have built stations that we may not open for fueling operations and we may open stations that fail to generate the volume or profitability levels we anticipate, either or both of which could occur due to a lack of sufficient customer demand at the stations or for other reasons. For any stations that are completed but unopened, we would continue to have substantial investments in assets that do not produce revenue. For any stations that are open and underperforming, we may decide to close the stations, as we did in 2017 with 42 fueling stations. These station closures, and any future station closures we implement, could result in substantial costs, such as lease termination, severance or other similar fees and non-cash asset impairments or other charges, and could also harm our reputation and reduce our customer base and prospects for future growth.. •We agreed to purchase 146 used natural gas heavy -duty trucks, and we may not resell all such trucks to our customers.. We must effectively manage these risks in order to obtain the anticipated benefits from ANGH and achieve our objective of fueling additional natural gas heavy-duty trucks. If we are not successful in the heavy -duty truck market, our business, financial condition and operating results, including our ability to repay our debt, would be materially and adversely affected.. Compliance with greenhouse gas emissions regulations affecting our CNG, LNG and RNG fuel sales, LNG and CNG fueling stations or LNG production plants may prove costly and negatively affect our financial performance.. California has enacted laws and regulations that require specified greenhouse gas emissions reductions, and the federal government and many other state governments are considering similar measures. These regulations, if and when adopted and implemented, could impact several areas of our operations, including regulating the greenhouse gas emissions produced by or associated with the CNG, LNG and RNG we sell, our CNG and LNG fueling stations and our LNG production plants.. 15. California's greenhouse gas emissions laws require statewide reductions of greenhouse gas emissions to 1990 levels by 2020, 40% below 1990 levels by 2030, and 80% below 1990 levels by 2050. As of January 1, 2015, California's AB 32 law began regulating the greenhouse gas emissions from transportation fuels, including the emissions associated with CNG and LNG vehicle fuel that we sell.. Under AB 32, the regulated party with respect to CNG fuel use is the utility that owns the pipe through which the fossil fuel natural gas is sold. We anticipate that, over time, as the utilities' costs increase to comply with this law, we or, to the extent we pass these costs through to our customers, our CNG customers will be required to pay more for CNG vehicle fuel to cover the increased AB 32 compliance costs of the utility. The amount of these costs that we or our CNG customers will be required to pay will be determined by the amount a utility spends to buy any carbon credits needed to comply with AB 32 and the amount of natural gas we or our customers buy through the utility's pipeline. With respect to LNG vehicle fuel use, the LNG vehicle fuel provider is the regulated party under AB 32. As a result, we will incur increased costs to comply with AB 32, and the amount of the increase will be based on how much LNG vehicle fuel we sell that is regulated, CARB's requirements relating to the regulation of LNG vehicle fuel, any applicable regulatory changes and the cost of any carbon credits we purchase to comply with AB 32. We will try to pass the costs we incur to comply with this law through to our LNG customers. Although our Redeem RNG vehicle fuel may qualify for an exemption from AB 32 when sold as CNG or LNG, the availability of any such exemption is uncertain at this time due to the complexity of the requirements that must be met in order to qualify for an exemption and the possibility of changes to the law. Any Redeem volumes that are not exempt would incur compliance costs commensurate with sales of CNG and LNG derived from fossil fuel natural gas.. The increased costs of CNG and LNG vehicle fuel as a result of AB 32 could diminish the attractiveness of these fuels for existing and prospective customers in California, which could reduce our customer base and fuel sales in one of our key geographic markets. Additionally, to the extent we are not able to pass these increased costs through to our customers, we could experience increased direct expenses and reduced margins. Any of these outcomes could cause our performance to suffer, impair our ability to fulfill customer contracts and reduce our cash available for other aspects of our business, including operating costs, investments and debt repayments. Moreover, if similar laws or regulations are adopted and implemented by other states or by the federal government, or if existing laws are amended to make them more stringent, any compliance costs associated with the new or amended laws could amplify these effects, including discouraging adoption of natural gas as a vehicle fuel in other markets if costs increase for customers, and further increasing our expenses and decreasing our margins if the increased compliance costs are borne by us. Further, any such new or more stringent laws or regulations could require us to undertake or incur significant additional capital expenditures or other costs to, among other things, buy emissions or other environmental credits or invest in costly new emissions prevention technologies. We cannot estimate the costs that may be required for us to comply with potential new laws or changes to existing laws, or the other potential effects these laws may have on our business, and these unknown costs and effects are not contemplated by our existing customer agreements or our budgets and cost estimates.. In addition, any failure by us to comply with existing or any future emissions laws or regulations could result in monetary penalties or a variety of other administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition and results of operations.. Our RNG business may not be successful.. On March 31, 2017, we completed the BP Transaction. Following this transaction, our RNG business consists of purchasing RNG from BP and other third-party producers and reselling this RNG through our natural gas fueling infrastructure as Redeem, our RNG vehicle fuel.. The success of our RNG business depends on our ability to secure, on acceptable terms, a sufficient supply of RNG from BP and other third parties, and to sell this RNG at a substantial premium to conventional natural gas prices and sell credits we may generate under applicable federal or state laws and regulations, including RINs and LCFS Credits, at favorable prices. If we are not successful at one or more of these activities, our RNG business could fail and our performance and financial condition could be materially harmed.. Our ability to maintain an adequate supply of RNG may be subject to risks affecting RNG production. Projects that produce pipeline-quality RNG often experience unpredictable production levels or other difficulties due to a variety of factors, including, among others, problems with key equipment, severe weather, construction delays, technological difficulties, high operating costs, limited availability or unfavorable composition of collected landfill gas, and plant shutdowns caused by upgrades, expansion or required maintenance. If any of our RNG suppliers experience these or other difficulties, then our supply of, and ability to resell, RNG as a vehicle fuel could be jeopardized.. 16. Our ability to generate revenue from our sale of RNG or our generation and sale of RINs and LCFS Credits depends on a number of factors, including the markets for RNG as a vehicle fuel and for these credits. In the past, the markets for RINs and LCFS Credits has been volatile and unpredictable, and the prices for these credits have been subject to significant fluctuations. Additionally, the value of RINs and LCFS Credits, and consequently the revenue levels we may receive from our sale of these credits, may be adversely affected by changes to the federal and state programs under which these credits are generated and sold. Further, our ability to generate revenue from sales of these credits depends on our strict compliance with these federal and state programs, which are complex and can involve a significant degree of judgment. If the agencies that administer and enforce these programs disagree with our judgments, otherwise determine we are not in compliance or conduct reviews of our activities, then our ability to generate or sell these credits could be temporarily restricted pending completion of reviews or as a penalty, permanently limited or lost entirely, and we could be subject to fines or other sanctions. Any of these outcomes could force us to purchase credits in the open market to cover any credits we have contracted to sell, retire credits we may have generated but not yet sold, eliminate or reduce a significant revenue stream or incur substantial additional and unplanned expenses. Further, following our sale to BP of certain assets related to our RNG business, the amount of revenue we generate from sales of RINs and LCFS Credits has decreased, which has and will continue to adversely affect our financial results. Moreover, in the absence of federal and state programs that support premium prices for RNG or that allow the generation and sale of LCFS Credits, RINs or other credits, or if our customers are not willing to pay a premium for RNG, we may be unable to operate our RNG business profitably or at all.. We are subject to risks associated with station construction and similar activities, including difficulties identifying suitable station locations, zoning and permitting issues, local resistance, cost overruns, delays and other contingencies.. We face a number of challenges in connection with our design and construction of fueling stations. For example, we may not be able to identify suitable locations for the stations we or our customers seek to build. Additionally, even if preferred sites can be located, we may encounter land use or zoning difficulties, challenges obtaining and retaining required permits and approvals or other local resistance, any of which could prevent us or our customers from building new stations on these sites or limit or restrict the use of new or existing stations. Any such difficulties, resistance or limitations or any failure to comply with local permit, land use or zoning requirements could restrict our activities or expose us to fines, reputational damage or other liabilities, which would harm our business and results of operations. In addition, we act as the general contractor and construction manager for new station construction and facility modification projects, and we typically rely on licensed subcontractors to perform the construction work. We may be liable for any damage we or our subcontractors cause or for injuries suffered by our employees or our subcontractors' employees during the course of work on our projects. Additionally, shortages of skilled subcontractor labor could significantly delay a project or otherwise increase our costs. Further, our expected profit from a project is based in part on assumptions about the cost of the project, and cost overruns, delays or other execution issues may, in the case of projects we complete and sell to customers, result in our failure to achieve our expected margins or cover our costs, and in the case of projects we build and own, result in our failure to achieve an acceptable rate of return. If any of these events were to occur, our business, operating results and liquidity could be negatively affected.. We have significant contracts with government entities that are subject to unique risks.. We have, and expect to continue to seek, long-term CNG, LNG and RNG station construction, maintenance and fuel sales contracts with various government bodies. These government contracts accounted for approximately 18%, 16% and 19% of our annual revenue in 2015, 2016 and 2017, respectively. In addition to normal business risks, including the other risks discussed in these risk factors, our contracts with government entities are often subject to unique risks, some of which are beyond our control. For example, long-term government contracts and related orders are subject to cancellation if adequate appropriations for subsequent performance periods are not made. Further, the termination of funding for a government program supporting any of our government contracts could result in the loss of anticipated future revenue attributable to the contract, which could have a negative impact on our operations.. In addition, government entities with which we contract are often able to modify, curtail or terminate contracts with us at their convenience and without prior notice, and would only be required to pay for work completed and commitments made at the time of the termination. Modification, curtailment or termination of significant government contracts could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Further, government contracts are frequently awarded only after competitive bidding processes, which are often protracted. In many cases, unsuccessful bidders for government contracts are provided the opportunity to formally protest the contract awards through various agencies or other administrative and judicial channels. The protest process may substantially delay a successful bidder's contract performance, result in cancellation of the contract award entirely and distract management. As a result, we may not be awarded contracts for which we bid and substantial delays or cancellation of contracts may follow any successful bids as a result of these protests.. 17. Our operations entail inherent safety and environmental risks that may result in substantial liability to us.. Our operations entail inherent safety risks, including risks associated with equipment defects, malfunctions, failures and misuses, any of which could result in uncontrollable flows of natural gas, fires, explosions or other damage, including death or serious injury. For example, operation of LNG pumps requires special training because of the extremely low temperatures of LNG. Also, LNG tanker trailers and CNG fuel tanks and trailers could rupture if involved in accidents or improper maintenance or installation. Further, refueling of natural gas vehicles or operation of natural gas vehicle fueling stations could result in the venting of methane gas, which is a potent greenhouse gas the emission of which is regulated by some state regulatory agencies and may in the future be regulated by the EPA and/or additional state regulators. These safety and environmental risks may expose us to liability for personal injury, wrongful death, property damage, pollution and other environmental damage. We may incur substantial liability and costs if any such damages are not covered by insurance or are in excess of policy limits, or if environmental damage causes us to violate applicable greenhouse gas emissions or other environmental laws. Additionally, the occurrence of any of these events with respect to our fueling stations or our other operations could materially harm our business and reputation. Moreover, the occurrence of any of these events to any other organization in the natural gas vehicle fuel business could harm our industry generally by negatively affecting perceptions about, and adoption levels of, natural gas as a vehicle fuel.. Our business is subject to a variety of government regulations that may restrict our operations and result in costs and penalties.. We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the environment, health and safety, labor and employment, building codes and construction, zoning and land use, the government procurement process, any political activities or lobbying in which we may engage, public reporting and taxation, among others. It is difficult and costly to manage the requirements of every authority having jurisdiction over our various activities and to comply with their varying standards. These laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and in many cases have become more stringent over time. Any changes to existing regulations or adoption of new regulations may result in significant additional expense to us or our customers. Further, from time to time, as part of the regular evaluation of our operations, including newly acquired or developing operations, we may be subject to compliance audits by regulatory authorities, which may distract management from our revenue-generating activities and involve significant costs and use of other resources. Also, in connection with our operations, we often need to obtain facility permits or licenses to address, among other things, storm water or wastewater discharges, waste handling and air emissions, which may subject us to onerous or costly permitting conditions or delays if permits cannot be timely obtained.. Our failure to comply with any applicable laws and regulations could result in a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including, among others, assessment of monetary penalties, imposition of corrective requirements or prohibition from providing services to government entities. If any of these enforcement measures were imposed on us, our business, financial condition and performance could be negatively affected.. We may from time to time pursue acquisitions, divestitures, investments or other strategic relationships or transactions, which could fail to meet expectations or otherwise harm our business.. We may acquire or invest in other companies or businesses or pursue other strategic transactions or relationships, such as divestitures, joint ventures, collaborations or other similar arrangements. For example, in March 2017 we completed the BP Transaction, and in December 2017, we completed the CEC Combination. These transactions involve numerous risks, any of which could harm our business, performance and liquidity, including, among others:. • Difficulties integrating the operations, personnel, contracts, service providers and technologies of an acquired company or partner;. • Diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations or alternative acquisition, investment, strategic or other opportunities;. • Failure to realize the anticipated synergies or other benefits of a transaction or relationship;. • Failure to identify all of the operating problems, liabilities, shortcomings or challenges of a company or asset we may partner with, invest in or acquire, including issues related to intellectual property rights, regulatory compliance practices, revenue recognition or other accounting practices or employee, customer or vendor relationships;. • Risks of entering new customer or geographic markets in which we may have limited or no experience, including, among other things, challenges satisfying differing customer demands and preferences and complying with differing laws and regulations, as well as risks related to political and economic instability in some regions, trade restrictions or barriers and currency exchange or repatriation uncertainties;. 18. • Potential loss of an acquired company's or partner's key employees, customers or vendors in the event of an acquisition or investment, or potential loss of our assets (and their associated revenue streams), employees or customers in the event of a divestiture or other strategic transaction;. • Risks associated with any joint venture or other collaboration relationship we may pursue, including as a result of our relinquishment of some degree of control over the assets, technologies or businesses that are the subject of the joint venture or collaboration, or as a result of our partners having business goals and interests that are not aligned with ours or being unable or unwilling to fulfill their obligations in the relationship;. • Inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset costs related to an acquisition, investment or other transaction or relationship;. • Incurrence of substantial costs or debt or equity dilution in order to fund an acquisition, investment or other transaction or relationship; and. • Possible write-offs or impairment charges relating to any businesses we partner with, invest in or acquire.. Our results of operations fluctuate significantly and are difficult to predict.. Our results of operations have historically experienced, and may continue to experience,  significant fluctuations  as a result of a variety of factors, including, among others, the amount and timing of  station construction sales, sales of RINs and LCFS Credits and recognition of other government credits and incentives, such as AFTC; fluctuations in commodity costs and natural gas prices; and the amount and timing of our billing, collections and liability payments, as well as the other factors described in these risk factors.. Our results in certain periods have also been impacted by transactions or events that have resulted in significant cash or non-cash gains or losses, which may not recur regularly, in the same amounts or at all in other periods. For example, in 2015 and 2016, our results were positively affected by $31.0 million and $26.6 million of revenue in the respective periods from the AFTC tax credit, and we expect to recognize all of the AFTC revenue associated with our vehicle fuel sales made in 2017 during 2018, due to the reinstatement of AFTC for 2017 on February 9, 2018. AFTC, however, is not available and may not be reinstated for vehicle fuel sales made after December 31, 2017, in which case we will not recognize revenue associated with AFTC after 2018. In addition in 2016, our results were positively affected by an aggregate of $34.3 million of gains related to repurchases or retirements of our outstanding convertible debt, and in 2017, our results were also positively affected by a $70.7 million gain related to the BP Transaction. Our results for 2017, however, were negatively affected by $81.1 million of charges in connection with our closure of certain fueling stations, our determination of an impairment of assets as a result of the foregoing, and certain other actions, and by a $6.5 million loss in connection with the CEC Combination.. These significant fluctuations of our operating results may render period-to-period comparisons less meaningful, and investors in our securities should not rely on the results of any one period as an indicator of performance in any other period. Additionally, these fluctuations in our operating results could cause our performance in any particular period to fall below the financial guidance we have provided to the public or the estimates and projections of the investment community, which could negatively affect the price of our common stock.. We depend on key people to generate our strategies and operate our business, and our business could be harmed if we are unable to retain these key people.. We believe our future success is dependent on the contributions of our officers and directors and certain other key managerial, sales, technical and finance personnel. All of our officers and other United States employees may terminate their employment relationships with us at any time and our directors may resign at any time or fail to be re-elected by our stockholders on an annual basis. Further, a substantial majority of the stock options held by our officers and directors and other key personnel have exercise prices that are significantly higher than the trading price of our common stock. In many cases, we believe these individuals' knowledge of our business and experience in our industry would be difficult to replace. Qualified individuals are in high demand, and we may incur significant costs to retain our key people. If we are unable to retain our officers, directors and other key employees, or if these individuals leave our Company and we are unable to attract and successfully integrate quality replacements in a timely manner and on reasonable terms, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed.. 19. Natural gas purchase and sale commitments may exceed demand, or supply, as applicable, which could cause our costs relative to our revenue to increase.. We are a party to two long-term natural gas purchase agreements with a take-or-pay commitment, and we may enter into additional similar contracts in the future. These take-or-pay commitments require us to pay for the natural gas we have agreed to purchase, irrespective of whether we sell the gas. If the market for natural gas as a vehicle fuel declines or fails to develop as we anticipate, if we lose natural gas vehicle fueling customers, or if demand under any existing or future sales contract does not maintain its volume levels or grow, these take-or-pay commitments may exceed our natural gas demand. In addition, we are involved in various firm commitment natural gas supply arrangements, and we may establish additional similar arrangements in the future. These arrangements require us to supply specified volumes of natural gas over specified periods of time, and subject us to deficiency payments or other penalties if we are unable to deliver the committed volumes as and when required. If we fail to generate sufficient demand for our take-or-pay purchase commitments or satisfy our firm supply commitments, our supply costs or operating expenses could increase without a corresponding increase in revenue, which could cause our margins, performance and liquidity to be negatively impacted.. We provide financing to fleet customers for natural gas vehicles, which exposes us to credit risks.. We lend to certain qualifying customers a portion, and occasionally all, of the purchase price of natural gas vehicles they agree to purchase. These financing activities involve a number of risks, including, among others, that the equipment financed consists mostly of vehicles, which are mobile and easily damaged, lost or stolen, and that the borrower may default on payments, enter bankruptcy proceedings and/or liquidate. As of December 31, 2017, we had $8.3 million outstanding in loans provided to customers to finance natural gas vehicle purchases.. Our warranty reserves may not adequately cover our warranty obligations, which could result in unexpected costs.. We provide product warranties with varying terms and durations for the stations we build and sell, and we establish reserves for the estimated liability associated with these warranties. Our warranty reserves are based on historical trends and any specifically identified warranty issues of which we may be aware, and the amounts estimated for these reserves could differ materially from the warranty costs we may actually realize. We would be adversely affected by an increase in the rate of warranty claims or the amounts involved in warranty claims or by the occurrence of unexpected warranty claims, any of which could increase our costs beyond our established reserves and cause our cash position and financial condition to suffer.. Increased global IT security threats and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime pose a risk to our systems, networks, products, and services.. Increased global IT security threats and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data. Implementing security measures designed to prevent, detect, rectify or correct these threats involves significant costs, and any such measures could fail. Depending on their nature and scope, these threats could potentially lead to the compromise of confidential information, improper use of our systems and networks, manipulation and destruction of data, operational disruptions and substantial financial outlays. The occurrence of any of these risks could materially harm our business, reputation and performance.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. Sales of our common stock, or the perception that such sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, regardless of the state of our business.. As of December 31, 2017, there were 151,650,969 shares of our common stock outstanding, 8,613,854 shares of our common stock underlying outstanding options, 1,832,575 shares of our common stock underlying restricted stock units and 14,991,521 shares of our common stock underlying outstanding convertible notes (assuming conversion at the stated conversion price). All outstanding shares of our common stock are eligible for sale in the public market, subject in certain cases to the requirements of Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Also, shares issued upon the exercise, vesting and settlement or conversion of outstanding stock options, restricted stock units and convertible notes may be eligible for sale in the public market, to the extent permitted by Rule 144 and the provisions of the applicable stock option, restricted stock unit and convertible note agreements or if such shares have been registered under the Securities Act. If these shares are sold, or if it is perceived that they may be sold, in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline.. As of December 31, 2017, 13,030,978 shares of our common stock held by our co-founder and board member T. Boone Pickens were pledged as security for loans made to Mr. Pickens. We are not a party to these loans. If the price of our common stock declines, Mr. Pickens may be forced to provide additional collateral for the loans or to sell shares of our common stock in order to remain within the margin limitations imposed under the terms of the loans. Any sales of our common stock following. 20. such a margin call that is not satisfied, or any other large sales of our common stock by our officers or directors, may cause the price of our common stock to decline.. A significant portion of our stock is beneficially owned by a single stockholder whose interests may differ from yours and who is able to exert significant influence over our corporate decisions, including a change of control.. As of December 31, 2017, our co-founder and board member T. Boone Pickens beneficially owned approximately 9.03% of our outstanding common stock (including 13,030,978 outstanding shares of common stock and 725,000 shares underlying outstanding options). As a result, Mr. Pickens is able to influence or control matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and mergers, acquisitions or other extraordinary transactions. Mr. Pickens may have interests that differ from yours and may vote in ways with which you disagree or that may be adverse to your interests. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our Company, which could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock as part of a sale of our Company and could affect the market price of our common stock. Conversely, this concentration of ownership may facilitate a change of control at a time when you and other investors may prefer not to sell.. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment.. The market price of our common stock has experienced, and may continue to experience, significant volatility. This volatility may be in response to factors that are beyond our control. Factors that may cause volatility in the price of our common stock include, among others:. • The factors that may influence the adoption of natural gas as a vehicle fuel, as discussed elsewhere in these risk factors;. • Our ability to implement our business plans and their level of success, including, among others, our initiatives to build ANGH and to fuel a greater number of natural gas heavy-duty trucks;. • Failure to meet or exceed the financial guidance we have provided to the public or the estimates and projections of the investment community;. • The market's perception of the success and importance of any acquisitions, divestitures, investments or other strategic relationships or transactions;. • Changes in political, regulatory, economic and market conditions;. • Changes to our management, including officer or director departures or other changes;. • Sales of our common stock by us or our officers, directors or significant stockholders;. • A change in the trading volume of our common stock; and. • The other risks described in these risk factors.. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies, but which have affected the market prices of these companies' securities. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Moreover, volatility or declines in the market price of our common stock could have other negative consequences, including, among others, potential impairments to our assets or goodwill or a reduced ability to use our common stock for capital-raising, acquisitions or other purposes. The occurrence of any of these risks could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity and could cause further declines in the market price of our common stock."
