[1] "ITEM 1.A. RISK FACTORS. The risks and uncertainties set forth below, as well as other factors described elsewhere in this Report or in other filings by the Company with the SEC, could adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties that are not currently known to the Company or that are not currently believed by the Company to be material may also harm the Company's business operations and financial results.. The Company faces intense competition in its markets, which could lead to reduced net sales, net earnings and cash flow.. The Company faces intense competition from consumer product companies both in the U.S. and in its international markets. Most of the Company's products compete with other widely advertised brands within each product category. The Company also faces competition from retailers, including club stores, grocery stores, dollar stores, mass merchandisers, e-commerce retailers and subscription services, which are increasingly offering \"private label\" brands that are typically sold at lower prices and compete with the Company's products in certain categories. Increased purchases of \"private label\" products could reduce net sales of the Company's higher-margin products or there could be a shift in product mix to lower-margin offerings, which would negatively impact our margins.. The Company's products generally compete on the basis of product performance, brand recognition, and price. Advertising, promotion, merchandising and packaging also have significant impacts on consumer purchasing decisions, and the Company is increasingly using digital media marketing and promotional programs to reach consumers. A newly introduced consumer product (whether improved or newly developed) usually encounters intense competition requiring substantial expenditures for advertising, sales promotion and trade merchandising. If a product gains consumer acceptance, it typically requires continued advertising, promotional support and product innovations to maintain its relative market position. If the Company's advertising, marketing and promotional programs, including its use of digital media to reach consumers, are not effective or adequate, the Company's net sales may be negatively impacted.. Some of the Company's competitors are larger than the Company and have greater financial resources. These competitors may be able to spend more aggressively on advertising and promotional activities, introduce competing products more quickly and respond more effectively to changing business and economic conditions than the Company can. In addition, the Company's competitors may attempt to gain market share by offering products at prices at or below those typically offered by the Company. Competitive activity may require the Company to increase its spending on advertising and promotions and/or reduce prices, which could lead to reduced net earnings and adversely affect growth.. The changing retail environment could adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Company's sales are largely concentrated in the traditional retail grocery, mass retail outlet, warehouse club and dollar store channels. However, alternative retail channels, including e-commerce retailers, hard discounters, subscription services and buying clubs, have become more prevalent and consumer products that are sold through such alternative retail channels are continuing to increase. In particular, the growing presence of e-commerce retailers have affected, and may continue to affect, consumer preferences and market dynamics. Although the Company is engaged in e-commerce with respect to many of its products, if we are not successful in adapting to the changing consumer preferences and market dynamics and expanding sales through e-commerce retailers, hard discounters and other alternative retail channels, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be negatively impacted. In addition, the growth of the alternative retail channels that are focused on limiting the number of items they sell and selling predominantly \"private label\" products may reduce the Company's ability to market and sell its products through such retailers. The retail environment is changing with the growth of e-commerce retailers, hard discounters and other alternative retail channels and this could significantly change the way traditional retailers do business. In addition, these alternative retail channels may create significant pricing pressures for consumer goods, presenting additional challenges to increasing prices in response to commodity or other cost increases in all of the channels into which the Company sells. If these alternative retail channels were to take significant market share away from traditional retailers and/or the Company is not successful in these alternative retail channels, our margins and results of operations may be negatively impacted.. 6. Table of Contents. Volatility and increases in the costs of raw materials, energy, transportation, labor and other necessary supplies or services have negatively impacted, and may negatively impact, the Company's net earnings and cash flow.. Volatility and increases in the costs of raw materials, including resin, sodium hypochlorite, linerboard, soybean oil, solvent, corrugated cardboard and other chemicals and agricultural commodities, and increases in the cost of energy, transportation, labor and other necessary supplies or services have harmed, and may continue to harm, the Company's profits and operating results. We distribute our products and receive raw materials primarily by rail and truck. Reduced availability of rail or trucking capacity has caused and could continue to cause us to incur unanticipated expenses and impair our ability to distribute our products or receive our raw materials in a timely manner, which could disrupt our operations, strain our customer relations and adversely affect our operating profits. In particular, the recent reduced trucking capacity due to shortage of drivers, recent enforcement deadline for a federal regulation requiring drivers to electronically log their driving hours and adverse weather conditions, among other reasons, has caused an increase in the cost of transportation for us and many other companies. The Company believes commodity and other cost increases could continue in the future. If such increases occur or exceed the Company's estimates and the Company is not able to increase the prices of its products or achieve cost savings to offset such cost increases, its profits and operating results will be harmed. In addition, even if the Company increases the prices of its products in response to increases in the cost of commodities, it may not be able to sustain its price increases. Sustained price increases may lead to declines in volume as competitors may not adjust their prices or customers may decide not to pay the higher prices, which could lead to sales declines and loss of market share. While the Company seeks to project tradeoffs between price increases and volume, its projections may not accurately predict the volume impact of price increases, which could adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations.. To reduce the cost volatility associated with anticipated purchases of certain commodities, the Company uses derivative instruments, including commodity futures and swaps. The extent of the Company's derivative position at any given time depends on the Company's assessment of the markets for these commodities, the cost volatility in the markets and the cost of the derivative instruments. Many of the commodities used by the Company in its products do not have actively traded derivative instruments. If the Company does not or is unable to take a derivative position and costs subsequently increase, or if it executes a position and costs subsequently decrease, the Company's costs may be greater than anticipated or higher than its competitors' costs and the Company's financial results could be adversely affected. For further information regarding the Company's use of derivative instruments, see \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" in Exhibit 99.1.. Sales growth objectives may be difficult to achieve, the Company may not be able to successfully implement price increases, and market and category declines and changes to the Company's product and geographic mix may adversely impact the Company's financial results.. A large percentage of the Company's revenues comes from mature markets that are subject to high levels of competition. During fiscal year 2018, 84% of the Company's net sales were generated in U.S. markets, including U.S. territories. The Company's ability to achieve sales growth depends on its ability to drive growth through innovation, expansion into new products and categories, channels and countries, investment in its established brands and enhanced merchandising and its ability to capture market share from competitors. The Company's ability to achieve sales growth also depends on foreign currency fluctuations, a weakening of foreign currencies in which sales are generated relative to the currencies in which costs are denominated would decrease net sales.  The Company has recently implemented price increases and/or expects to implement price increases in fiscal year 2019 across a significant portion of its global portfolio, which may slow sales growth or create volume declines in the short term as customers and consumers adjust to these price increases. If the Company is unable to increase market share in existing product lines, develop product innovations, undertake sales, marketing and advertising initiatives that grow its product categories and/or develop, acquire or successfully launch new products or brands, it may not achieve its sales growth objectives. Even when the Company is successful in increasing market share within particular product categories, a decline in the markets for such product categories has had and can continue to have a negative impact on the Company's financial results. In addition, changes to the mix of products the Company sells, as well as the mix of countries in which its products are sold, may adversely impact the Company's net sales, profitability and cash flow.. 7. Table of Contents. Dependence on key customers could adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. A limited number of customers account for a large percentage of the Company's net sales. Net sales to the Company's largest customer, Walmart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates, were 26%, 26% and 27% of consolidated net sales for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and occurred across all of the Company's reportable segments. No other individual customer accounted for 10% or more of the Company's consolidated net sales in any of these fiscal years. The Company's five largest customers accounted for nearly half of the Company's consolidated net sales for each of the fiscal years 2018, 2017 and 2016 and a significant portion of the Company's future revenues may continue to be derived from a small number of customers. As a result, changes in the strategies of the Company's largest customers, including a reduction in the number of brands they carry, a shift of shelf space to \"private label\" or competitors' products or a decision to lower pricing of consumer products, including branded products, may harm the Company's net sales or margins, and reduce the ability of the Company to offer new innovative products to consumers. In addition, the use of the latest technology by our customers regarding pricing may lead to category pricing pressures. Furthermore, any loss of a key customer or a significant reduction in net sales to a key customer, even if such loss or reduction relates to a key customer of a business unit of the Company, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, the Company's business is based primarily upon individual sales orders, and the Company typically does not enter into long-term contracts with its customers. Accordingly, customers could reduce their purchasing levels or cease buying products from the Company at any time and for any reason. If the Company does not effectively respond to the demands of its customers, they could decrease their purchases from the Company, causing the Company's net sales and net earnings to decline. Furthermore, unfavorable market conditions or competitive pressures may cause the Company's customers to reevaluate the number and mix of brands they sell, resulting in lower purchases of the Company's products by these customers. In addition, some of our customers have experienced and may experience in the future declining financial performance, which could affect their ability to pay amounts due to us on a timely basis or at all. We regularly review the financial strength of our key customers and, where appropriate, modify customer credit limits, which may have an adverse impact on future sales.. The Company continues to see retailer consolidation both in the U.S. and internationally. This trend has resulted in the increased size and influence of large consolidated retailers, who have in the past changed, and may in the future change, their business strategies, demand lower pricing or special packaging or impose other burdensome requirements on product suppliers. These business demands may relate to inventory practices, transportation and storage, a shift in focus away from branded products toward \"private label\" or other aspects of the customer-supplier relationship. These large consolidated companies could also exert additional competitive pressure on the Company's other customers, which could in turn lead to such customers demanding lower pricing or special packaging or imposing other onerous requirements on the Company. If the Company ceases doing business with a significant customer or if sales of its products to a significant customer materially decrease due to customer inventory reductions or otherwise, the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed.. Cyber-attacks, privacy breaches, data breaches or a failure of key information technology systems could adversely impact the Company's business and reputation.. The Company relies extensively on information technology systems, many of which are managed, hosted, provided and/or used  by third-parties and their vendors, in order to conduct its business. These systems include, but are not limited to, programs and processes relating to communicating within the Company and with customers, consumers, vendors, investors and other parties, ordering and managing materials from suppliers, converting materials to finished products, receiving and processing purchase orders and shipping products to customers, processing transactions, hosting, processing and sharing confidential and proprietary research, business and financial information, summarizing and reporting results of operations, complying with financial reporting, regulatory, legal and tax requirements and implementing other processes involved in managing the business. Although the Company has made progress with its implementation of enterprise-wide upgrades to its hardware, software and operating systems, legacy systems, which may be vulnerable to increased risk, still remain. In addition, some of the legacy systems will need to be upgraded or replaced in the near future as such systems cease to be supported by third-party service providers. If a new system does not function properly, it could affect the Company's ability to process and deliver customer orders and process and receive payments for its products. This could adversely impact the Company's results of operations and cash flows. In addition, if the technology systems of acquired companies, including those of Nutranext, are not successfully integrated into those of the Company or the Company's existing and/or future technology systems, are not adequately supported by third-party service providers and processes, the Company's business may be adversely impacted.. 8. Table of Contents. Although the Company has a broad array of network and information security measures in place and provides employee awareness regarding phishing, malware and other cyber risks, the information technology systems, including those of our customers, vendors, suppliers and other third-party service providers with whom we have contracted, may be vulnerable to computer viruses or other malicious codes, security breaches, unauthorized access attempts, phishing attacks and other disruptions from employee error, unauthorized uses or system failures, including Internet outages. While the Company has business continuity plans in place, if the systems are damaged or cease to function properly due to any number of causes, including catastrophic events, power outages, security breaches, cyber-attacks or other similar events or as a result of legacy systems, and if the business continuity plans do not effectively resolve such issues on a timely basis, the Company may suffer interruptions in its ability to manage or conduct business, as well as reputational harm and litigation, which may adversely impact the Company's business. In addition, such incidents could result in unauthorized disclosure and misuse of material confidential information. The Company cannot guarantee that its security efforts will prevent attacks and resulting breaches or breakdowns of the Company's, or its third-party service providers', databases or systems. Cyber threats are becoming more sophisticated and constantly evolving and this increases the difficulty of detecting and successfully defending against them. In addition, although the Company has policies and procedures in place governing the secure storage of personal information collected by the Company and its third-party service providers, as well as protection of company information and assets, data breaches or theft of such information assets may occur in the future. Furthermore, the Company sells its Burt's Bees® natural personal care products, RenewLife® digestive health products, Nutranext dietary supplements and other products directly to consumers online and through websites, mobile apps and connected devices, and the Company offers promotions, rebates, customer loyalty and other programs through which it may receive personal information, and it or its vendors could experience cyber-attacks, privacy breaches, data breaches or other incidents that may result in unauthorized disclosure and misuse of consumer, customer, employee, vendor or Company information. The Company is subject to laws of various countries where it operates or does business related to solicitation, collection, processing or use of consumer, customer, vendor or employee information or related data, including the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation, which recently went into effect.. If the Company suffers a loss as a result of a breach or other breakdown in its technology, including cyber-attack, privacy breaches, data breaches or other incident involving the Company or any of the Company's vendors, that result in unauthorized disclosure or significant unavailability of business, financial, personal or stakeholder information, the Company's reputation, competitiveness and/or business may be harmed and the Company may be exposed to legal liability and be subject to government investigations, which may adversely affect the Company's results of operations and/or financial condition. In addition, if the Company's service providers, suppliers or customers experience a breach or unauthorized disclosure or system failure, their businesses could be disrupted or otherwise negatively affected, which may result in a disruption in the Company's supply chain or reduced customer orders or other business operations, which would adversely affect the Company.. Harm to the Company's reputation or the reputation of one or more of its leading brands could have an adverse effect on the business.. Maintaining a strong reputation with consumers, customers and trade partners is critical to the success of the Company's business. The Company devotes significant time and resources to programs that are consistent with our corporate values and are designed to protect and preserve the Company's reputation and the reputation of its brands. These programs include ethics and compliance, setting sustainability goals and product safety and quality initiatives. Despite these efforts, negative publicity about the Company, including product safety, quality, efficacy, environmental impacts (including packaging, energy and water use and waste management) and other sustainability or similar issues, whether real or perceived, could occur, and the Company may not meet its sustainability goals. As a result, the Company's products could face withdrawal, recall or other quality issues. The Company also licenses certain of its brands to third parties, which creates additional exposure for those brands to product safety, quality, sustainability and other concerns. In addition, widespread use of social media and networking sites by consumers has greatly increased the speed and accessibility of information dissemination. Negative publicity, posts or comments on social media or network sites about the Company or its brands, whether accurate or inaccurate, or disclosure of non-public sensitive information about the Company, could be widely disseminated through the use of social media. Such events, if they were to occur, could harm the Company's image and adversely affect its business, as well as require resources to rebuild the Company's reputation.. 9. Table of Contents. Acquisitions, new venture investments and divestitures may not be successful, which could impact the Company's business operations and financial results.. In connection with the Company's strategy, the Company expects to continue to seek acquisition opportunities, such as the fiscal year 2018 acquisition of Nutranext, which competes in the  dietary supplements category. However, the Company may not be able to identify and successfully negotiate suitable strategic acquisitions at attractive prices. In addition, all acquisitions and investments entail numerous risks, including risks relating to the Company's ability to:. • successfully integrate acquired companies, products, systems or personnel into the Company's existing business operations in an effective, timely and cost efficient manner;. • maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies throughout acquired companies, including effective integration of acquired companies into the Company's internal controls over financial reporting;. • minimize any potential interruption to the ongoing business of the Company or the acquired company;. • successfully enter categories and markets in which the Company may have limited or no prior experience;. • achieve expected synergies and obtain the desired financial or strategic benefits from acquisitions;. • achieve distribution expansion related to products, categories and markets from acquisitions; and. • retain key relationships with employees, customers, partners and suppliers of acquired companies.. Acquired companies or operations or joint ventures may not be profitable or may not achieve sales levels and profitability and cash flow expectations. Future acquisitions or ventures could also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, the assumption of contingent liabilities, including litigation, an increase in expenses related to certain assets and increased operating expenses, all of which could adversely affect the Company's results of operations and financial condition. Future acquisitions of foreign companies or new foreign ventures would subject the Company to local regulations and could potentially lead to risks related to, among other things, increased exposure to foreign exchange rate changes, tax or labor laws, government price control, repatriation of profits and liabilities relating to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. In addition, to the extent that the economic benefits associated with any of the Company's acquisitions diminish in the future, the Company may be required to record impairment charges related to goodwill, intangible assets or other assets associated with such acquisitions, which could adversely affect its operating results and/or net earnings per share.. The Company has divested and may, in the future, divest certain assets, businesses or brands that do not meet the Company's strategic objectives or growth targets. With respect to any potential future divestiture, the Company may encounter difficulty finding potential acquirers or other divestiture options on favorable terms. Any future divestiture could affect the profitability of the Company as a result of the gains or losses on such sale of a business or brand, the loss of the operating income or sales resulting from such sale or the costs or liabilities that are not assumed by the acquirer that may negatively impact profitability and cash flow subsequent to any divestiture. The Company may also be required to recognize impairment charges as a result of a divestiture.. In addition, any potential future acquisitions, new ventures or divestitures may divert the attention of management and resources from matters that are core or critical to the Company's business.. Government regulations could impose material costs.. Generally, the manufacture, packaging, labeling, storage, distribution, advertising and sale of the Company's products and the conduct of its business operations must all comply with extensive federal, state and foreign laws and regulations. For example, in the U.S., many of the Company's products are regulated by the Environmental Protection Agency, the Food and Drug Administration (including applicable current good manufacturing practice regulations) and/or the Consumer Product Safety Commission, and the Company's product claims and advertising are regulated by the Federal Trade Commission, among other regulatory agencies. Most states have agencies that regulate in parallel to these federal agencies. The Company's international operations are also subject to regulation in each of the foreign jurisdictions in which it manufactures or distributes its products. There is also a risk of potentially higher incidence of fraud or corruption in certain foreign jurisdictions and related difficulties in maintaining effective internal controls. Additionally, the Company could be subject to inquiries or investigations by governmental and other regulatory bodies. Any determination that the Company's operations or activities are not in compliance with applicable law could expose the Company to future impairment charges or significant fines, penalties or other sanctions that may result in a reduction in net income or otherwise adversely impact the business and reputation of the Company.. 10. Table of Contents. In particular, because of the Company's extensive international operations, we could be adversely affected by violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials or other third parties for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. While our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws, we cannot provide assurance that our internal controls policies and procedures will always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees, joint-venture partners or agents. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and adversely affect our reputation and our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. It is expected that federal, state and foreign governments will continue to introduce new and expanded legislation affecting the Company's operations, which may require the Company to increase its resources, capabilities and expertise in such areas. For example, the Company is subject to regulations regarding the transportation, storage or use of certain chemicals to protect the environment, including as a result of evolving climate change standards, and regulations in other areas, such as with respect to \"conflict minerals.\" Such regulation could negatively impact the Company's ability to obtain raw materials or could increase its acquisition and compliance costs. In addition, the Company is subject to laws of various countries where it operates or does business related to solicitation, collection, processing or use of consumer, customer, vendor or employee information or related data, including the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation. Furthermore, additional legislation in the areas of healthcare reform,  taxation of domestic and foreign profits, executive compensation and corporate governance, could also increase the Company's costs. These risks may be increased by the Company's acquisition of Nutranext and RenewLife, which manufactures products subject to additional regulations, such as those under the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act.. Additionally, the recent imposition of tariffs on products imported from certain countries have introduced greater uncertainty with respect to trade policies and government regulations affecting trade between the U.S. and other countries. Major developments in trade relations, including the imposition of new or increased tariffs by the U.S. and/or other countries, and any emerging nationalist trends in specific countries could alter the trade environment and consumer purchasing behavior which, in turn, could have a material effect on our balance sheet and results of operations.. If the Company is found to be noncompliant with applicable laws and regulations in these or other areas, including the evolving regulations related to privacy and data security and protection, it could be subject to civil remedies, including fines, import detentions, injunctions, product withdrawals or recalls or asset seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on its business. Loss of or failure to obtain necessary permits and registrations, particularly with respect to its charcoal business, could delay or prevent the Company from meeting current product demand, introducing new products, building new facilities or acquiring new businesses and could adversely affect operating results. As the Company expands its natural personal care and healthcare businesses such as through Burt's Bees®, HealthLink® and Caltech Industries, an increasing number of its products have and will become subject to regulations and laws relating to drugs and medical devices. In addition, as a result of the Company's acquisition of RenewLife and Nutranext, it markets and sells products that are subject to regulations relating to dietary supplements. In order to comply with these laws and regulations, the Company may be required to make changes to product formulation, labeling or marketing claims, perform additional testing to substantiate its product claims, make costly changes in its manufacturing processes or supply chain or stop selling certain products until corrective actions have been taken.. Uncertain worldwide, regional and local economic and financial market conditions may negatively impact the Company and consumers of its products, which would negatively affect the Company's financial performance and liquidity.. Although the Company continues to devote significant resources to support its brands, uncertain economic conditions have negatively affected, and may continue to negatively affect, consumer demand for the Company's products. Consumers may also be sensitive to economic uncertainty or unfavorable economic conditions and reduce discretionary spending, which may lead to reduced net sales or cause a shift in the Company's product mix from higher-margin to lower-margin products. Consumers may increase purchases of lower-priced or \"private label\" products, and the Company's competitors may increase levels of advertising and promotional activity for lower-priced products as they seek to maintain sales volumes during uncertain economic times, which may negatively impact the Company's net sales.. Global markets continued to face threats and uncertainty during fiscal year 2018. Future changes to U.S. or foreign tax and trade policies, imposition of new or increased tariffs, other trade restrictions or other government actions and foreign currency fluctuations, including devaluations, may lead to continuation of such threats and uncertainty. Uncertain economic and financial market conditions may also adversely affect the financial condition of the Company's customers, suppliers and other business partners. If customers' financial conditions are adversely affected, customers may reduce their purchases of the Company's products or the Company may not be able to collect accounts receivable, each of which could have a material adverse impact on the Company's business operations or financial results.. 11. Table of Contents. The Company is subject to risks related to its international operations and international trade.. In fiscal year 2018, 16% of the Company's net sales were generated in international markets.  The Company faces and will continue to face substantial risks associated with its foreign operations, including the following:. • economic or political instability;. • price controls and related government actions;. • foreign currency fluctuations, including devaluations, currency controls and inflation, which may adversely affect the Company's ability to do business in certain markets and reduce the U.S. dollar value of revenues, profits or cash flows it generates in non-U.S. markets;. • continued high levels of inflation in Argentina;. • difficulty in obtaining non-local currency (e.g., U.S. dollars) to pay for the raw materials needed to manufacture the Company's products and contract-manufactured products;. • restrictions on or costs related to the repatriation of foreign profits to the U.S.;. • the imposition of tariffs, trade restrictions, price, profit or other government controls, labor laws, travel or immigration restrictions, import and export laws or other government actions generating a negative impact on the Company's business, including changes in trade policies that may be implemented and the impact of geopolitical events generally;. • difficulties in hiring and retaining qualified employees;. • civil unrest, work stoppages and labor disputes;. • employment litigation related to employees, contractors and suppliers, particularly in Argentina;. • difficulties in obtaining or unavailability of raw materials;. • potential loss of distribution channels as a result of retailer consolidation;. • increased credit risk of customers, suppliers and distributors;. • potential harm to third parties, the Company's employees and/or surrounding communities, and related liabilities and damages to the Company's reputation, from the use, storage and transportation of chlorine in certain international markets where chlorine is used in the production of bleach, whether such actions are undertaken by the Company or by the Company's business partners;. • difficulties in enforcing intellectual property and contractual rights;. • lack of well-established or reliable, and impartial legal systems in certain countries where the Company operates;. • challenges relating to enforcement of or compliance with local laws and regulations and with U.S. laws affecting operations outside of the U.S., including without limitation, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act;. • the possibility of nationalization, expropriation of assets or other similar government actions;. • risks related to natural disasters, terrorism and other events beyond the Company's control; and. • risks related to the Company's discontinued operations in Venezuela.. In addition, changes as result of the United Kingdom's decision to exit the European Union could subject the Company to heightened risks in that region, including disruptions to trade and free movement of goods, services and people to and from the United Kingdom, increased foreign exchange volatility with respect to the British pound and additional legal and economic uncertainty. All of the foregoing risks could have a significant adverse impact on the Company's ability to commercialize its products on a competitive basis in international markets and may have a material adverse effect on its results of operations or financial condition. The Company's small sales volume in some countries, relative to some multinational and local competitors, could exacerbate such risks.. The Company is also exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risks with respect to its net sales, net earnings and cash flow driven by movements of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies. A weakening of the currencies in which sales are generated relative to the currencies in which costs are denominated would decrease net earnings and cash flow. Although the Company uses instruments to hedge certain foreign currency risks, these hedges only offset a small portion of the Company's exposure to foreign currency fluctuations, including devaluations, therefore, the Company's reported net earnings may be negatively affected by changes in foreign exchange rates.. Inflation is another risk associated with the Company's international operations. For example, effective July 1, 2018, Argentina has been designated as a highly inflationary economy, as it has experienced cumulative inflation of approximately 100 percent or more over a three-year period.  Gains and losses resulting from the remeasurement of non-U.S. dollar monetary assets and liabilities of Argentina will be recorded in net earnings for the first quarter of the Company's fiscal year ending June 30, 2019.  Other countries in which the Company operates may also become highly inflationary or such countries' currencies may be devalued, or both, which may negatively impact the Company's business operations and financial results.. 12. Table of Contents. For further information regarding Argentina, including the recent designation as a highly inflationary economy, see \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" in Exhibit 99.1.. The Company may not successfully achieve its innovation goals, or develop and introduce new products and line extensions or expand into adjacent categories and countries, which could adversely impact its financial results.. The Company's future performance and growth depends on innovation and its ability to successfully develop or license capabilities to introduce new products, brands, line extensions and product innovations or enter into or expand into adjacent product categories, sales channels or countries. The Company's ability to quickly innovate in order to adapt its products to meet changing consumer demands is essential, especially in light of e-commerce significantly reducing the barriers for even small competitors to quickly introduce new brands and products directly to consumers. This risk is further heightened by the continued evolution of consumer needs, habits and preferences as a result of shifts in U.S. demographics, reflecting various factors including cultural and socioeconomic changes. The Company cannot be certain that it will successfully achieve its innovation goals. The development and introduction of new products require substantial and effective research and development and demand creation expenditures, which the Company may be unable to recoup if the new products do not gain widespread market acceptance. In addition, effective and integrated systems are required for the Company to gather and use consumer data and information to successfully market its products. New product development and marketing efforts, including efforts to enter markets or product categories in which the Company has limited or no prior experience, have inherent risks. These risks include product development or launch delays, which could result in the Company not being first to market and the failure of new products, brands and line extensions to achieve anticipated levels of market acceptance. If product introductions or new or expanded adjacencies are not successful, costs associated with these efforts may not be fully recouped and the Company's net earnings could be adversely affected. In addition, if sales generated by new products cause a decline in sales of the Company's existing products, the Company's financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Product liability and labeling claims, commercial claims or other legal proceedings could adversely affect the Company's net sales and operating results, including cash flow.. The Company has in the past paid, and may be required in the future to pay, for losses or injuries purportedly caused by its products. Such claims may be based on allegations that, among other things, the Company's products contain contaminants or provide inadequate instructions or warnings regarding their use, have defective packaging, fail to perform as advertised, or damage property or persons. Product liability claims could result in negative publicity that could harm the Company's reputation, sales and operating results and the reputation of the Company's brands. Furthermore, acquisitions or ventures could also result in the assumption of contingent liabilities, including litigation, which could adversely affect the Company's results of operations and financial condition.  In addition, if any of the Company's products is found to be defective, the Company may recall it, which could result in adverse publicity and significant expenses. Although the Company maintains product liability insurance coverage, insurance recovery for product liability claims may be subject to a retention, exceed the amount of insurance coverage or be excluded under the terms of the policies.. In addition, the Company is, and may in the future become, the subject of, or party to, various pending or threatened legal actions, government investigations and proceedings , including advertising disputes with competitors, consumer class actions, including those related to advertising claims, labor claims, breach of contract claims, antitrust litigation, securities litigation, premises liability claims and litigation in foreign jurisdictions. The Company may be subject to additional claims, proceedings and actions as it expands into dietary supplements category.  In general, claims made by or against the Company in litigation, investigations, disputes or other proceedings have been and may in the future be expensive and time-consuming to bring or defend against and could result in settlements, injunctions or damages that could significantly affect its business or financial results or condition. It is not possible to predict the final resolution of the litigation, investigations, disputes or proceedings with which the Company currently is or may in the future become involved. The impact of these matters on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition could be material. See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" and the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Exhibit 99.1 for additional information related to these matters.. 13. Table of Contents. Profitability and cash flow could suffer if the Company is unable to generate anticipated cost savings, successfully implement its strategies, or efficiently manage supply chain and manufacturing processes.. The Company continues to implement plans to improve its competitive position by setting aggressive annual cost savings targets, and it expects ongoing cost savings from its continuous improvement activities. The Company anticipates these cost savings will result from reducing material costs and manufacturing inefficiencies and realizing productivity gains, distribution efficiencies and overhead reductions. If the Company cannot successfully implement its cost savings plans or the cost of making these changes increases, the Company may not realize all anticipated benefits, which could adversely affect its financial results or its long-term strategies, such as the 2020 Strategy, which includes financial goals such as annual net sales growth of 3-5%, annual EBIT margin growth between 25-50 basis points and annual free cash flow as a percentage of net sales of about 11-13%. The Company also continues to seek to penetrate new markets and introduce new products and product innovations. These goals and strategies may not be implemented or may fail to achieve desired results, and the Company may fail to achieve one or more of the financial goals for one or more of the relevant fiscal years. In addition, the Company expects to continue to restructure its operations as necessary to improve operational efficiency, including occasionally opening or closing offices, facilities or plants. Gaining additional efficiencies may become increasingly difficult over time, there may be one-time costs relating to facility closures or other restructurings and anticipated cost savings and the Company's strategies may not be implemented or may fail to achieve desired results. If the Company is unable to generate anticipated costs savings, successfully implement its strategies or efficiently manage its supply chain and manufacturing processes, the Company's financial results could suffer. These plans and strategies could also have a negative impact on the Company's relationships with employees or customers, which could also adversely affect the Company's financial results.. Increases in the estimated fair value of the Procter & Gamble Co. (\"P&G's\") interest in the Company's Glad® business, such as the significant increase over the first half of fiscal year 2018 due to the enactment of H.R. 1, also known as the \"Tax Cuts and Jobs Act\" (the \"Tax Act\"), and the extension of the venture agreement with, and the related R&D support provided by, P&G, increase the value of the Company's obligation to purchase P&G's interest in the Glad® business upon the termination of the venture agreement and may, in the future, adversely affect the Company's net earnings and cash flow.. In January 2003, the Company entered into a venture agreement with P&G related to the Company's Glad® bags, wraps and containers business. In connection with this agreement, P&G provides research and development support to the Glad® business. The agreement with P&G was extended in December 2017 and the agreement will now expire in January 2026 unless the parties agree to further extend the term. The agreement requires the Company to purchase P&G's 20% interest at the expiration of its term for cash at fair value as established by predetermined valuation procedures.  As of June 30, 2018 and June 30, 2017, the estimated fair value of P&G's interest was $631 million and $458 million, respectively, of which $341 million and $317 million, respectively, has been recognized by the Company and is reflected in Other liabilities in the Company's Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited). The difference between the estimated fair value and the amount recognized, and any future changes in the fair value of P&G's interest, is charged to Cost of products sold in accordance with the effective interest method over the remaining life of the agreement. The estimated fair value of P&G's interest, which has increased significantly over the past several years, increased by $173 million from June 30, 2017 to June 30, 2018, primarily as a result of the enactment of the Tax Act and the extension of the venture agreement with, and the related R&D support provided by, P&G, and may continue to change up until any such purchase by the Company of P&G's interest. The key assumptions and estimates used to arrive at the estimated fair value include, but are not limited to, tax rates, the rate at which future cash flows are discounted (discount rate), commodity prices, future volume estimates, net sales and expense growth rates, changes in working capital, capital expenditures, foreign exchange rates, inflation and perpetuity growth rates. Any changes in such assumptions or estimates could significantly affect such estimated fair value and, accordingly, the value of the Company's repurchase obligation and may adversely affect the Company's net earnings up until any such purchase and cash flow at the time of any such purchase. For additional information, see \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" and Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Exhibit 99.1.. Loss of, or inability to attract, key personnel could adversely impact the Company's business.. The Company's success depends, in part, on its ability to retain its key personnel, including its executive officers and senior management team. The unexpected loss of one or more of the Company's key employees could disrupt its business. The Company's success also depends, in part, on its continuing ability to identify, hire, develop and retain other highly qualified personnel. Competition for these employees can be intense, especially in the San Francisco Bay Area, where the Company's headquarters and largest research facility are located. In addition, the Company's employees may be targeted and recruited by other companies. As the Company expands into new categories or markets, including more regulated businesses, it will also require personnel with relevant training and experience in such categories or markets. The Company may not be able to attract, or retain qualified personnel in the future, and its failure to do so or the compensation costs of doing so could adversely affect the Company.. 14. Table of Contents. Reliance on a limited base of suppliers may result in disruptions to the Company's business.. The Company relies on a limited number of suppliers for certain commodities and raw material inputs, including sole-source and single-source suppliers for certain of its raw materials, packaging, product components, finished products and other necessary supplies. New suppliers have to be qualified under Company standards and may also have to be qualified under governmental and industry standards, and any relevant standards of the Company's customers, which may require additional investment and time. The Company could experience disruptions in production and other supply chain issues, which could result in out-of-stock conditions, and its financial results and relationships with customers could be adversely affected if the Company is unable to qualify any needed new suppliers or maintain supplier arrangements and relationships, if it is unable to contract with suppliers at the quantity, quality and price levels needed for its business, if any of the Company's key suppliers becomes insolvent or experiences financial distress, or if any environmental, economic or other outside factors impact its operations.. Environmental matters create potential liabilities that could adversely affect the Company's results of operations or financial condition.. The Company must comply with various environmental laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which it operates, including those relating to air emissions, water discharges, handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes, remediation of contamination associated with the use and disposal of hazardous substances and climate change. The Company has incurred, and will continue to incur, significant expenditures and other costs in complying with environmental laws and regulations and in providing physical security for its worldwide operations, and such expenditures reduce the cash flow available to the Company for other purposes.. The Company is currently involved in or has potential liability with respect to the remediation of past contamination in the operation of some of its current and former facilities. In addition, some of its present and former facilities have or had been in operation for many years and, over that time, some of those facilities may have used substances or generated and disposed of wastes that are or may be considered hazardous. It is possible that those sites, as well as disposal sites owned by third parties to whom the Company has sent waste, may be identified and become the subject of remediation. The Company could also become subject to additional environmental liabilities in the future that could result in a material adverse effect on its results of operations or financial condition.. The Company had a recorded liability of $28 million as of June 30, 2018 and 2017, for its share of aggregate future remediation costs related to certain environmental matters, including response actions at various locations. One matter, which accounted for $14 million of the recorded liability as of June 30, 2018 and 2017, relates to environmental costs associated with one of the Company's former operations at a site located in Alameda County, California. Another matter, in Dickinson County, Michigan, for which the Company is jointly and severally liable, accounted for $12 million of the recorded liability as of June 30, 2018 and 2017.  The Company's estimated losses related to these matters are sensitive to a variety of uncertain factors, including the efficacy of any remediation efforts, changes in any remediation requirements, and the future availability of alternative clean-up technologies, and the Company's exposure may exceed the amount recorded for these matters. See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" and the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Exhibit 99.1 for additional information related to these liabilities.. The Company also handles and/or transports hazardous substances, including but not limited to chlorine, at some of its international production facilities. A release of such chemicals, whether in transit or at the Company's facilities, due to accident or an intentional act, could result in substantial liability and business disruptions.. The facilities of the Company and its suppliers are subject to disruption by events beyond the Company's control.. Operations at facilities of the Company, its suppliers (including sole-source and single-source suppliers), service providers and retail customers are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, including work stoppages, demonstrations, disease outbreaks or pandemics, acts of war, terrorism, fire, earthquakes, flooding or other natural disasters, disruptions in logistics, loss or impairment of key manufacturing sites, supplier capacity constraints, raw material and product quality or safety issues, industrial accidents or other occupational health and safety issues. The Company's corporate headquarters and primary research and development facility are located near major earthquake fault lines in California. If a major disruption at the Company or its suppliers were to occur, it could result in injury to people, damages to the natural environment, temporary loss of access to critical data, delays in shipments of products to customers, disruptions in the Company's supply chain or suspension of operations. Any such disruption could have a material adverse impact on the Company and its financial results.. 15. Table of Contents. Failure to maximize, successfully assert or successfully defend the Company's intellectual property rights could impact its competitiveness.. The Company relies on intellectual property rights based on trademark, trade secret, patent and copyright laws to protect its brands, products, packaging for its products, inventions and confidential information. The Company cannot be certain that these intellectual property rights will be maximized or that they can be successfully asserted. There is a risk that the Company will not be able to obtain and perfect its own intellectual property rights or, where appropriate, license intellectual property rights necessary to support new product introductions and product innovations. The Company cannot be certain that these rights, if obtained, will not later be invalidated, circumvented or challenged, and the Company could incur significant costs in connection with legal actions to assert its intellectual property rights or to defend those rights from assertions of invalidity. In addition, even if such rights are obtained in the U.S., the laws of some of the other countries in which the Company's products are or may be sold may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. It is also possible that the Company's brands may not be available for use in certain countries due to prior third party rights, thereby limiting expansion of the Company's brands.  If other parties infringe the Company's intellectual property rights, they may dilute or diminish the value of the Company's brands and products in the marketplace, which could diminish the value that consumers associate with the Company's brands and harm its net sales. The failure to perfect and protect its intellectual property rights could make the Company less competitive and could have a material adverse effect on its business, operating results, and financial condition.. If the Company is found to have infringed the intellectual property rights of others or cannot obtain necessary intellectual property rights from others, its competitiveness could be negatively impacted.. If the Company is found to have violated the trademark, trade secret, copyright, patent or other intellectual property rights of others, directly or indirectly, through the use of third-party marks, ideas or technologies, such a finding could result in the need to cease use of such trademark, trade secret, copyrighted work or patented invention in the Company's business and the obligation to pay for past infringement. If holders are willing to permit the Company to continue to use such intellectual property rights, they could require a payment of a substantial amount for continued use of those rights. Either ceasing use or paying such amounts could cause the Company to become less competitive and could have a material adverse impact on the Company's business, operating results and financial condition.. Even if the Company is not found to infringe a third party's intellectual property rights, claims of infringement could adversely affect the Company's business. The Company could incur material legal costs and related expenses to defend against such claims and the Company could incur significant costs associated with discontinuing to use, provide or manufacture certain products, services or trademarks even if it is ultimately found not to have infringed such rights.. The Company's judgments regarding the accounting for tax positions, the resolution of tax disputes and the effects of the Tax Act on our business and our company could be materially different from our current estimates or expectations, all of which could impact the Company's net earnings and cash flow.. Significant judgment is required to determine the Company's effective tax rate and evaluate its tax positions. The Company provides for uncertain tax positions when such tax positions do not meet the recognition thresholds or measurement criteria prescribed by applicable accounting standards. When particular tax matters arise, a number of years may elapse before such matters are audited and finally resolved. Unfavorable resolution of any tax matter in any of the jurisdictions in which we operate could increase the effective tax rate, which would have an adverse effect on the Company's operating results. Any resolution of a tax issue may require the use of cash in the year of resolution.. Fluctuations in federal, state, local and foreign taxes or a change to uncertain tax positions, including related interest and penalties, may also impact the Company's effective tax rate and the Company's financial results, and changes in tax laws, such as the Tax Act which was signed into law on December 22, 2017, could create uncertainty and have a material impact the Company's operating results.  The Tax Act, among other things, contains significant changes to corporate taxation, including a reduction of the U.S. corporation statutory income tax rate to 21% from 35%, one-time taxation of accumulated foreign earnings regardless of whether they are repatriated, limitations on the deduction for interest expense, immediate tax deductions for five years for new investments instead of deductions for depreciation expense over time, disallowance of deductions for certain-performance based compensation, elimination of the deduction for certain domestic production activities and a migration from a \"worldwide\" system of taxation to a modified territorial system. Although we continue to assess and analyze the full effects of the Tax Act on our business and the Company, we expect the Tax Act, as a whole, will reduce our effective tax rate in future periods, in addition to fiscal year 2018. In addition, although we expect a positive impact to our cash flows from the Tax Act, such impact will be realized in future periods as we realize the benefit from the lower effective tax rates.. 16. Table of Contents. We are continuing to assess and analyze the accounting for the impacts of the Tax Act. Moreover, the process of adopting extensive tax legislation in a short amount of time may have led to drafting errors, issues needing clarification and unintended consequences that Congress may decide to review in subsequent tax legislation. In addition, interpretation of many provisions of the Tax Act is still unclear. It is not clear when, or whether, Congress may address any of these issues or when the Internal Revenue Service may issue additional administrative guidance on the changes made in the Tax Act. In addition, the FASB provided guidance intended to clarify the accounting for certain aspects of the Tax Act. Furthermore, foreign countries may decide to enact tax laws that may negatively affect our foreign tax liabilities in retaliation for any real or perceived negative effects of the Tax Act on their countries that they deem unfair or for other reasons and/or states or local government may decide to enact tax laws that may increase tax liabilities for companies doing business in such jurisdictions as they see opportunities to increase state and local corporate taxes after the federal corporate tax rate was reduced by the Tax Act.. We continue to assess and analyze the impact of the Tax Act on our business and our Company. Accordingly, some of the income tax effects reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements are provisional amounts. For example, provisional amounts are reported for our revaluation of net deferred tax liabilities and for our one-time transition tax on accumulated foreign earnings. In addition, certain underlying income tax effects embedded within the valuations of certain balance sheet items, including the liability related to our obligation to purchase P&G's 20% interest in our Glad® business upon the termination of our venture agreement with P&G, may be subject to change as we finalize the provisional elements in our assessment of the Tax Act. The estimated impacts of the Tax Act, including with respect to our revaluation of net deferred tax liabilities, assessment of our deferred taxes related to foreign unremitted earnings, estimate of our effective tax rates for future periods and valuation of our potential obligation to purchase P&G's interest in our Glad® business, are based on management's current assessment and estimates and could be materially different based on our actual results for future periods, our further analysis of the Tax Act, any additional Congressional, administrative and FASB actions or guidance related to the Tax Act and any actions that we may take as a result of the Tax Act. For additional information, see \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" and the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.. The Company's indebtedness could adversely affect its business operations and financial results and prevent the Company from fulfilling its obligations, and the Company may not be able to maintain its current credit ratings, may not continue to pay dividends or repurchase its stock and may not remain in compliance with existing debt covenants.. As of June 30, 2018, the Company had over $2 billion of debt. The Company's indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could:. • require the Company to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to payments on its indebtedness, which would reduce the availability of its cash flow to fund working capital requirements, capital expenditures, future acquisitions, dividends, repurchase the Company's common stock and for other general corporate purposes;. • limit the Company's flexibility in planning for or reacting to general adverse economic conditions or changes in its business and the industries in which it operates;. • place the Company at a competitive disadvantage compared to its competitors that have less debt; and. • limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in the Company's debt documents, its ability to borrow additional funds.. The Company may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future to fund acquisitions, repurchase stock or fund other activities for general business purposes. If new debt is added to the current debt levels, the related risks that the Company now faces could limit its ability to access debt capital markets or other forms of financing and result in increased borrowing costs. Further, certain terms of the agreements governing the Company's over-the-counter derivative instruments contain provisions that require the Company's credit ratings, as assigned by Standard & Poor's and Moody's to the Company, to remain at a level equal to or better than the minimum of an investment grade credit rating. As of June 30, 2018, the Company had been assigned investment-grade ratings with both Standard & Poor's and Moody's. However, if the Company's credit rating were to fall below investment grade, the counterparties to the derivative instruments in net liability positions could request full collateralization.. 17. Table of Contents. Although the Company has historically declared and paid quarterly cash dividends on its common stock and has been authorized to repurchase its stock subject to certain limitations under its stock repurchase programs, any determinations by the board of directors to continue to declare and pay cash dividends on the Company's common stock or to repurchase the Company's common stock will be based primarily upon the Company's financial condition, results of operations and business requirements, its access to debt capital markets or other forms of financing, the price of its common stock in the case of the repurchase program and the board of directors' continuing determination that the repurchase programs and the declaration and payment of dividends are in the best interests of the Company's stockholders and are in compliance with all laws and agreements applicable to the repurchase and dividend programs. In the event the Company does not declare and pay a quarterly dividend or discontinues its stock repurchases, the Company's stock price could be adversely affected. The Company is subject to compliance with the Company's existing debt covenants. As of June 30, 2018, the Company could add approximately $4 billion in incremental debt and remain in compliance with its debt covenants, although the actual amount that the Company may be able to borrow in the future may exceed this amount. Failure by the Company to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants in its debt documents could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could have a significant adverse effect on the Company.. The Company's continued growth and expansion and reliance on third-party service providers could adversely affect its internal control over financial reporting, which could harm its business and financial results.. Clorox management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting cannot provide absolute assurance that a misstatement of the Company's financial statements would be prevented or detected. The Company's continuing growth and expansion in domestic and globally dispersed markets, such as its acquisition of Nutranext and RenewLife, may place significant additional pressure on the Company's system of internal control over financial reporting and require the Company to update its internal control over financial reporting to integrate such acquisitions. Moreover, the Company engages the services of third parties to assist with business operations and financial reporting processes, which injects additional monitoring obligations and risk into the system of internal control. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit the Company's ability to report its financial results accurately and on a timely basis, or to detect and prevent fraud and could expose it to regulatory enforcement action and shareholder claims.. The Company's business could be negatively impacted as a result of stockholder activism or an unsolicited takeover proposal or a proxy contest.. In recent years, proxy contests and other forms of stockholder activism have been directed against numerous public companies, including the Company. During fiscal years 2012 and 2011, the Company was the target of an unsolicited takeover proposal from a stockholder activist, which resulted in significant costs to the Company. If such a proposal were to be made again, the Company would incur significant costs, which would have an adverse effect on the Company's financial results. Stockholder activists may also seek to involve themselves in the governance, strategic direction and operations of the Company. Such proposals may disrupt the Company's business and divert the attention of the Company's management and employees, and any perceived uncertainties as to the Company's future direction resulting from such a situation could result in the loss of potential business opportunities, the perception that the Company needs a change in the direction of its business, or the perception that the Company is unstable or lacks continuity, which may be exploited by our competitors, cause concern to our current or potential customers, and may make it more difficult for the Company to attract and retain qualified personnel and business partners, which could adversely affect the Company's business. In addition, actions of activist stockholders may cause significant fluctuations in our stock price based on temporary or speculative market perceptions or other factors that do not necessarily reflect the underlying fundamentals and prospects of our business.. 18. Table of Contents. The estimates and assumptions on which the Company's financial projections are based may prove to be inaccurate, which may cause its actual results to materially differ from such projections, which may adversely affect the Company's future profitability, cash flows and stock price.. The Company's financial projections are dependent on certain estimates and assumptions related to, among other things, category growth, development and launch of innovative new products, market share projections, product pricing, volume and product mix, foreign exchange rates and volatility, commodity prices, distribution, cost savings, accruals for estimated liabilities, including litigation reserves, goodwill, measurement of benefit obligations for pension and other postretirement benefit plans and the Company's ability to generate sufficient cash flow to reinvest in its existing business, fund internal growth, repurchase its stock, make acquisitions, pay dividends and meet debt obligations. While the Company's financial projections are based on historical experience and on various other assumptions that the Company believes to be reasonable under the circumstances and at the time they are made, the Company's actual results may differ materially from its financial projections. Any material variation between the Company's financial projections and its actual results may adversely affect the Company's future profitability, cash flows and stock price.. The Company is subject to risks related to its discontinued operations in Venezuela.. On September 22, 2014, the Company's Venezuela subsidiary announced that it was discontinuing its operations, effective immediately, and seeking to sell its assets. On September 26, 2014, the Company reported that Venezuelan Vice President Jorge Arreaza announced, with endorsement by President Nicolás Maduro, that the Venezuelan government had occupied the production facilities of the Company's Venezuela subsidiary. On November 6, 2014, the Company reported that the Venezuelan government had published a resolution granting a government-sponsored Special Administrative Board full authority to restart and operate the business formerly operated by the Company's Venezuela subsidiary, thereby reaffirming the government's expropriation of its assets. Further, President Nicolás Maduro announced the government's intention to facilitate the resumed production of bleach and other cleaning products at the Venezuela plants. The Venezuelan government's actions raise grave concerns, as the production of cleaning products, in particular bleach, is a highly specialized and technical process. Any restarting of operations in Venezuela is or would be without the consent or involvement of the Company and its affiliates, and any resumed production processes would be outside the Company's control. The Company has advised repeatedly that it and its affiliates cannot be responsible for the safety of any workers and the surrounding communities or for the safety, quality or effectiveness of any product that may be produced under the Venezuelan government's takeover or any use of the names and trademarks of the Company and its affiliates. Nevertheless, the Company may face liabilities or costs associated with any such unauthorized resumption of operations by the Venezuelan government or others."
