[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The Corporation's financial condition and results of operations are subject to various risks inherent in its business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect the Corporation are described below. If any of these risks actually occur, the Corporation's business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. The following risks together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be considered.. The possibility of the economy's return to recessionary conditions and the possibility of further turmoil or volatility in the financial markets would likely have an adverse effect on the Corporation's business, financial position and results of operations.. The Corporation continues to face risks resulting from the aftermath of the severe recession generally and the moderate pace of the current recovery. A slowing or failure of the economic recovery would likely aggravate the adverse effects of these difficult economic and market conditions on the Corporation and on others in the financial services industry. In particular, the Corporation may face the following risks in connection with the economic or market environment:. <U+25CF>    The Corporation's and the Bank's ability to borrow from other financial institutions or to access the debt or equity capital markets on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected by further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations.. <U+25CF>    The Corporation faces increased regulation of the banking and financial services industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase its costs and limit its ability to pursue business opportunities.. <U+25CF>    Market developments may affect customer confidence levels and may cause increases in loan delinquencies and default rates, which management expects would adversely impact the Bank's charge-offs and provision for loan losses.. <U+25CF>    Market developments may adversely affect the Bank's securities portfolio by causing other-than-temporary-impairments, prompting write-downs and securities losses.. <U+25CF>    Competition in banking and financial services industry could intensify as a result of the consolidation of financial services companies in connection with current market conditions.. The Bank's allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover loan losses which could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's business, financial condition and results of operations.. A significant source of risk for the Corporation arises from the possibility that losses will be sustained because borrowers, guarantors and related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loan agreements. Most loans originated by the Bank are secured, but some loans are unsecured based upon management's evaluation of the creditworthiness of the borrowers. With respect to secured loans, the collateral securing the repayment of these loans principally includes a wide variety of real estate, and to a lesser extent personal property, either of which may be insufficient to cover the obligations owed under such loans.. Collateral values and the financial performance of borrowers may be adversely affected by changes in prevailing economic, environmental and other conditions, including declines in the value of real estate, changes in interest rates and debt service levels, changes in oil and gas prices, changes in monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government, widespread disease, terrorist activity, environmental. 19. Table of Contents. contamination and other external events, which are beyond the control of the Bank. In addition, collateral appraisals that are out of date or that do not meet industry recognized standards might create the impression that a loan is adequately collateralized when in fact it is not. Although the Bank may acquire any real estate or other assets that secure defaulted loans through foreclosures or other similar remedies, the amounts owed under the defaulted loans may exceed the value of the assets acquired.. The allowance for loan losses is subject to a formal analysis by the Credit Administration and Finance Departments of the Corporation using a methodology whereby loan pools are segregated into special mention, substandard, doubtful and unclassified categories and the pools are evaluated based on historical loss factors. The Bank monitors delinquencies and losses on a monthly basis. The Bank has adopted underwriting and credit monitoring policies and procedures, including the review of borrower financial statements and collateral appraisals, which management believes are appropriate to mitigate the risk of loss by assessing the likelihood of borrower nonperformance and the value of available collateral. The Bank also manages credit risk by diversifying its loan portfolio. An ongoing independent review, subsequent to management's review, of individual credits is performed by an independent loan review function, which reports to the Loan Committee of the Corporation's Board of Directors. However, such policies and procedures have limitations, including judgment errors in management's risk analysis, and may not prevent unexpected losses that could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's business, financial condition and results of operations.. Interest rate volatility could significantly reduce the Corporation's profitability.. The Corporation's earnings largely depend on the relationship between the yield on its earning assets, primarily loans and investment securities, and the cost of funds, primarily deposits and borrowings. This relationship, commonly known as the net interest margin, is susceptible to significant fluctuation and is affected by economic and competitive factors that influence the yields and rates, and the volume and mix of the Bank's interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities.. Interest rate risk can be defined as the sensitivity of net interest income and of the market value of financial instruments to the direction and frequency of changes in interest rates. Interest rate risk arises from the imbalance in the re-pricing, maturity and/or cash flow characteristics of assets and liabilities. The Corporation is subject to interest rate risk to the degree that its interest bearing liabilities re-price or mature more slowly or more rapidly or on a different basis than its interest earning assets. Changes in interest rates, including those due to federal monetary policy, will affect the levels of income and expense recorded on a large portion of the Bank's assets and liabilities, and fluctuations in interest rates will impact the market value of all interest sensitive assets. Significant fluctuations in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the Corporation's business, financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity.. The Bank's interest rate risk measurement and management techniques incorporate the re-pricing and cash flow attributes of its balance sheet and off-balance sheet instruments as they relate to current and potential changes in interest rates. The level of interest rate risk, measured in terms of the potential future effect on earnings, is determined through the use of static gap analysis and earnings simulation modeling under multiple interest rate scenarios. Management's objectives are to measure, monitor and develop strategies in response to the interest rate risk profile inherent in the Bank's balance sheet in order to preserve the sensitivity of net interest income to actual or potential changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2017, the interest rate sensitivity position was asset sensitive in the short-term. For further information on risk relating to interest rates, refer to Part I, Item 7a, \"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk,\" herein.. 20. Table of Contents. The Bank's loans are principally concentrated in certain areas of Pennsylvania and Ohio, and adverse economic conditions in those markets could adversely affect the Corporation's business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Corporation's success is dependent to a significant extent upon general economic conditions in the United States and, in particular, the local economies in central and northwest Pennsylvania, central and northeast Ohio, and western New York the primary markets served by the Bank. The Bank is particularly exposed to real estate and economic factors in these geographic areas, as most of its loan portfolio is concentrated among borrowers in these markets. Furthermore, because a substantial portion of the Bank's loan portfolio is secured by real estate in these areas, the value of the associated collateral is also subject to regional real estate market conditions.. The Bank is not immune to negative consequences arising from overall economic weakness and, in particular, a sharp downturn in the local real estate markets served by the Bank. While the Bank's loan portfolio has not shown significant signs of credit quality deterioration despite continued challenges in the U.S. economy, we cannot assure you that no deterioration will occur. An economic recession in the markets served by the Bank, and the nation as a whole, could negatively impact household and corporate incomes. This impact could lead to decreased loan demand and increase the number of borrowers who fail to pay the Bank interest or principal on their loans, and accordingly, could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's business, financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity.. The Corporation's investment securities portfolio is subject to credit risk, market risk, and liquidity risk, and declines in value in its investment securities portfolio may require it to record other-than-temporary impairment charges that could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations and financial condition.. The Corporation's investment securities portfolio has risks beyond its control that can significantly influence the portfolio's fair value. These factors include, but are not limited to, rating agency downgrades of the securities, defaults of the issuers of the securities, lack of market pricing of the securities, and continued instability in the credit markets. Recent lack of market activity with respect to certain of the securities has, in certain circumstances, required the Corporation to base its fair market valuation on unobservable inputs. The Corporation has engaged valuation experts to price these certain securities using proprietary models, which incorporate assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the securities, including bid/ask spreads and liquidity and credit premiums. Any change in current accounting principles or interpretations of these principles could impact the Corporation's assessment of fair value and thus its determination of other-than-temporary impairment of the securities in its investment securities portfolio.. The Bank may be required to record other-than-temporary impairment charges on its investment securities if they suffer declines in value that are considered other-than-temporary. Numerous factors, including collateral deterioration underlying certain private label mortgage-backed securities, lack of liquidity for re-sales of certain investment securities, absence of reliable pricing information for certain investment securities, adverse changes in business climate, adverse actions by regulators, or unanticipated changes in the competitive environment could negatively effect the Bank's securities portfolio in future periods. An other-than-temporary impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's results of operations and financial condition.. 21. Table of Contents. The Corporation is subject to extensive government regulation and supervision, which may interfere with its ability to conduct its business and may negatively impact its financial results.. The Corporation, primarily through the Bank and its non-bank subsidiary, is subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors' funds, the Federal Deposit Insurance Fund and the safety and soundness of the banking system as a whole, not stockholders. These regulations affect the Corporation's lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect the Corporation in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject it to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products the Corporation may offer, and/or limit the pricing it may charge on certain banking services, among other things. Additionally, the Dodd-Frank Act has and will continue to change the current bank regulatory structure and affect the lending, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. In addition to the self-implementing provisions of the statute, the Dodd-Frank Act calls for many administrative rulemakings by various federal agencies to implement various parts of the legislation, some of which have yet to be implemented. The Corporation cannot be certain when final rules affecting it will be issued through such rulemakings and what the specific content of such rules will be. The financial reform legislation and any implementing rules that are ultimately issued could have adverse implications on the financial industry, the competitive environment, and the Corporation's ability to conduct business. The Corporation will have to apply resources to ensure that it is in compliance with all applicable provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and any implementing rules, which may increase its costs of operations and adversely impact its earnings. Additionally, revised capital adequacy guidelines and prompt corrective action rules applicable to it became effective January 1, 2015. Compliance with these rules have imposed additional costs on the Corporation.. Failure to comply with laws, including the Bank Secrecy Act and USA Patriot Act, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, restrictions, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's business, financial condition and results of operations and/or cause the Corporation to lose its financial holding company status. While the Corporation has policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. See the section captioned \"Supervision and Regulation\" in Part I, Item 1 of this report for further information.. The Corporation relies on its management and other key personnel, and the loss of any of them may adversely affect its operations.. The Corporation is and will continue to be dependent upon the services of its executive management team. In addition, it will continue to depend on its ability to retain and recruit key client relationship managers. The unexpected loss of services of any key management personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on its business and financial condition.. Strong competition within the Corporation's markets and technological change may have a material adverse impact on its profitability.. The Corporation competes with an ever-increasing array of financial service providers. As noted above, as a financial holding company and state-chartered financial institution, respectively, the. 22. Table of Contents. Corporation and the Bank are subject to extensive regulation and supervision, including, in many cases, regulations that limit the type and scope of activities. The non-bank financial service providers that compete with the Corporation and the Bank may not be subject to such extensive regulation, supervision, and tax burden. Competition from nationwide banks, as well as local institutions, is strong in the Corporation's markets.. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological change and technological advances are likely to intensify competition. In addition to improving customer services, effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. Accordingly, the Corporation's future success will depend in part on its ability to address customer needs by using technology. The Corporation cannot assure you that it will be able to successfully take advantage of technological changes or advances or develop and market new technology driven products and services to its customers.. Many regional, national and international competitors have far greater assets and capitalization than the Corporation has and greater resources to invest in technology and access to capital markets and can consequently offer a broader array of financial services than it can. We cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to compete effectively with other financial institutions in the future. Furthermore, developments increasing the nature or level of competition could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's business, financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. For further information on competition, refer to Part I, Item 1, \"Competition\" herein.. A failure in or breach of the Corporation's or any of its subsidiaries' operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of third party vendors and other service providers, including as a result of cyber attacks, could disrupt the Corporation's or any of its subsidiaries' businesses, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage its reputation, increase its costs and cause losses.. The Corporation, primarily through the Bank, depends on its ability to continuously process, record and monitor a large number of customer transactions and customer, public and regulatory expectations regarding operational and information security have increased over time. Accordingly, its and its subsidiaries' operational systems and infrastructure must continue to be safeguarded and monitored for potential failures, disruptions and breakdowns. Although the Corporation has business continuity plans and other safeguards in place, disruptions or failures in the physical infrastructure or operating systems that support its businesses and customers, or cyber attacks or security breaches of the networks, systems or devices on which customers' personal information is stored and that customers use to access the Corporation's and its subsidiaries products and services could result in customer attrition, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensation costs, and/or additional compliance costs, any of which could materially adversely affect the Corporation's results of operations or financial condition.. Although to date the Corporation has not experienced any material losses relating to cyber attacks or other information security breaches, there can be no assurance that it or its subsidiaries will not suffer such losses in the future. The Corporation's risk and exposure to these matters remains heightened because of, among other things, the evolving nature of these threats, our plans to continue to implement our Internet banking and mobile banking channel strategies and develop additional remote connectivity solutions to serve our customers when and how they want to be served. As a result, cybersecurity and the continued development and enhancement of the Corporation's controls, processes and practices designed to protect its and its subsidiaries systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a priority for the Corporation. As. 23. Table of Contents. cyber threats continue to evolve, the Corporation may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance its protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities.. The Corporation may not be able to meet its cash flow needs on a timely basis at a reasonable cost, and the Corporation's cost of funds for banking operations may significantly increase as a result of general economic conditions, interest rates and competitive pressures.. Liquidity is the ability to meet cash flow obligations as they come due and cash flow needs on a timely basis and at a reasonable cost. The liquidity of the Bank is used to make loans and to repay deposit and borrowing liabilities as they become due, or are demanded by customers and creditors. Many factors affect the Bank's ability to meet liquidity needs, including variations in the markets served by its network of offices, its mix of assets and liabilities, reputation and standing in the marketplace, and general economic conditions.. The Bank's primary source of funding is retail deposits, gathered throughout its network of banking offices. Periodically, the Corporation utilizes term borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh, or FHLB, of which the Bank is a member, and other lenders to meet funding obligations. The Bank's securities and loan portfolios provide a source of contingent liquidity that could be accessed in a reasonable time period through sales.. Significant changes in general economic conditions, market interest rates, competitive pressures or otherwise, could cause the Bank's deposits to decrease relative to overall banking operations, and it would have to rely more heavily on brokered funds and borrowings in the future, which are typically more expensive than deposits.. Management and the Board of Directors of the Corporation, through its Asset/Liability Committee, or the ALCO, monitor liquidity and the ALCO establishes and monitors acceptable liquidity ranges. The Bank actively manages its liquidity position through target ratios. Continual monitoring of these ratios, both historical and through forecasts under multiple rate scenarios, allows the Bank to employ strategies necessary to maintain adequate liquidity.. Changes in economic conditions, including consumer savings habits and availability of or access to capital, could potentially have a significant impact on the Bank's liquidity position, which in turn could materially impact the Corporation's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. A substantial decline in the value of the Bank's FHLB common stock may adversely affect the Corporation's results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.. As a requirement of membership in the FHLB of Pittsburgh, the Bank must own a minimum required amount of FHLB stock, calculated periodically based primarily on its level of borrowings from the FHLB. Borrowings from the FHLB represent the Bank's primary source of short-term and long-term wholesale funding.. In an extreme situation, it is possible that the capitalization of an FHLB, including the FHLB of Pittsburgh, could be substantially diminished or reduced to zero. Consequently, given that there is no trading market for the Bank's FHLB common stock, the Corporation's management believes that there is a risk that the Corporation's investment could be deemed impaired at some time in the future. If this occurs, it may adversely affect the Corporation's results of operations and financial condition.. 24. Table of Contents. In addition, if the capitalization of the FHLB of Pittsburgh is substantially diminished, the Bank's liquidity may be adversely impacted if it is not able to obtain alternative sources of funding.. There are 12 banks of the FHLB, including Pittsburgh. The 12 FHLB banks are jointly liable for the consolidated obligations of the FHLB system. To the extent that one FHLB bank cannot meet its obligations to pay its share of the system's debt, other FHLB banks can be called upon to make the payment. The Corporation cannot assure you, however, that the FHLB system will be able to meet these obligations.. The Bank could be held responsible for environmental liabilities relating to properties acquired through foreclosure, resulting in significant financial loss.. In the event the Bank forecloses on a defaulted commercial or residential mortgage loan to recover its investment, it may be subject to environmental liabilities in connection with the underlying real property, which could significantly exceed the value of the real property. Although the Bank exercises due diligence to discover potential environmental liabilities prior to acquiring any property through foreclosure, hazardous substances or wastes, contaminants, pollutants, or their sources may be discovered on properties during its ownership or after a sale to a third party. The Corporation cannot assure you that the Bank would not incur full recourse liability for the entire cost of any removal and cleanup on an acquired property, that the cost of removal and cleanup would not exceed the value of the property, or that the Bank could recover any of the costs from any third party. Losses arising from environmental liabilities could have a material adverse impact on the Corporation's business, financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity.. Federal and state governments could pass legislation responsive to current credit conditions which could cause the Corporation to experience higher credit losses.. The Corporation could experience higher credit losses because of federal or state legislation or regulatory action that reduces the amount the Bank's borrowers are otherwise contractually required to pay under existing loan contracts. Also, the Corporation could experience higher credit losses because of federal or state legislation or regulatory action that limits the Bank's ability to foreclose on property or other collateral or makes foreclosure less economically feasible. The Corporation cannot assure you that future legislation will not significantly and adversely impact its ability to collect on its current loans or foreclose on collateral.. The preparation of the Corporation's financial statements requires the use of estimates that could significantly vary from actual results, which could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.. The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. requires management to make significant estimates that affect the financial statements. For example, one of these significant estimates is the allowance for loan losses. Due to the inherent nature of estimates, the Corporation cannot provide absolute assurance that it will not significantly increase the allowance for loan losses and/or sustain credit losses that are significantly higher than the provided allowance, which could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.. The Corporation's financial results may be subject to the impact of changes in accounting standards or interpretation in new or existing standards.. From time to time the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, and the SEC change accounting regulations and reporting standards that govern the preparation of the Corporation's. 25. Table of Contents. financial statements. In addition, the FASB, SEC, and bank regulators may revise their previous interpretations regarding existing accounting regulations and the application of these accounting standards. These revisions in their interpretations are out of the Corporation's control and may have a material impact on its financial statements.. The unsoundness of other financial institutions with which the Corporation does business could adversely affect the Corporation's business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, investment or other relationships. The Corporation routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry such as commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks and other institutional clients for a range of transactions including loan participations, derivatives and hedging transactions. In addition, the Corporation invests in securities or loans originated or issued by financial institutions or supported by the loans they originate. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial institutions, or the financial industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or other institutions. Many of these transactions expose the Corporation to credit or investment risk in the event of default by the Corporation's counterparty. In addition, the Corporation's credit risk may be exacerbated if the collateral it holds cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or other exposure to the Corporation. The Corporation could incur losses to its securities portfolio as a result of these issues. These types of losses may have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's business, financial condition or results of operation.. Some provisions contained in the Corporation's articles of incorporation and its bylaws and under Pennsylvania law could deter a takeover attempt or delay changes in control or management of the Corporation.. Certain anti-takeover provisions of the Pennsylvania Business Corporation Law of 1988, as amended, apply to Pennsylvania registered corporations (e.g., publicly traded companies) including, but not limited to, those relating to (1) control share acquisitions, (2) disgorgement of profits by certain controlling persons, (3) business combination transactions with interested shareholders, and (4) the rights of shareholders to demand fair value for their stock following a control transaction. Pennsylvania law permits corporations to opt-out of these anti-takeover provisions, but the Corporation has not done so. Such provisions could have the effect of deterring takeovers or delaying changes in control or management of the Corporation. Additionally, such provisions could limit the price that some investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of the Corporation's common stock.. For example, the Corporation's amended and restated articles of incorporation require the affirmative vote of 66% of the outstanding shares entitled to vote to effect a business combination. In addition, the. Corporation's amended and restated articles of incorporation, subject to the limitations prescribed in such articles and subject to limitations prescribed by Pennsylvania law, authorize the Corporation's board of directors, from time to time by resolution and without further shareholder action, to provide for the issuance of shares of preferred stock, in one or more series, and to fix the designation, powers, preferences and other rights of the shares and to fix the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof. As a result of its broad discretion with respect to the creation and issuance of preferred stock without shareholder approval, the board of directors could adversely affect the voting power and other rights of the holders of common stock and, by issuing shares of preferred stock with certain voting, conversion and/or redemption rights, could discourage any attempt to obtain control of the Corporation.. 26. Table of Contents. The Corporation's bylaws, as amended and restated, provide for the division of the Corporation's board of directors into three classes of directors, with each serving staggered terms. In addition, any amendment to the Corporation's bylaws must be approved by the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes cast by all shareholders entitled to vote thereon and, if any shareholders are entitled to vote thereon as a class, upon receiving the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes cast by the shareholders entitled to vote as a class.. Any of the foregoing provisions may have the effect of deterring takeovers or delaying changes in control or management of the Corporation.. The price of the Corporation's common stock may fluctuate significantly, and this may make it difficult for you to resell shares of common stock owned by you at times or at prices you find attractive.. The price of the Corporation's common stock on the NASDAQ constantly changes. The Corporation expects that the market price of its common stock will continue to fluctuate, and the Corporation cannot give you any assurances regarding any trends in the market prices for its common stock.. The Corporation's stock price may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond its control. These factors include the Corporation's:. <U+0095>    past and future dividend practice;. <U+0095>    financial condition, performance, creditworthiness and prospects;. <U+0095>    quarterly variations in the Corporation's operating results or the quality of the Corporation's assets;. <U+0095>    operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors;. <U+0095>    changes in expectations as to the Corporation's future financial performance;. <U+0095>    announcements of innovations, new products, strategic developments, significant contracts, acquisitions and other material events by the Corporation or its competitors;. <U+0095>    the operating and securities price performance of other companies that investors believe are comparable to the Corporation;. <U+0095>    future sales of the Corporation's equity or equity-related securities;. <U+0095>    the credit, mortgage and housing markets, the markets for securities relating to mortgages or housing, and developments with respect to financial institutions generally; and. <U+0095>    instability in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, stock, commodity or real estate valuations or volatility, budget deficits or sovereign debt level concerns and other geopolitical, regulatory or judicial events.. The Corporation's ability to pay dividends is limited by law and regulations.. The future declaration of dividends by the Corporation's Board of Directors will depend on a number of factors, including capital requirements, regulatory limitations, the Corporation's operating results and financial condition and general economic conditions. The Corporation's ability to pay dividends depends primarily on the receipt of dividends from the Bank. Dividend payments from the Bank are subject to legal and regulatory limitations, generally based on retained earnings, imposed by bank regulatory agencies. The ability of the Bank to pay dividends is also subject to financial condition, regulatory capital requirements, capital expenditures and other cash flow requirements. The Corporation cannot assure you that the Bank will be able to pay dividends to the Corporation in the. 27. Table of Contents. future. The Corporation may decide to limit the payment of dividends to its stockholders even when the Corporation has the legal ability to pay them in order to retain earnings for use in the Corporation's business.. The risks presented by acquisitions could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Any acquisitions will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in acquisitions including, among other things: our ability to realize anticipated cost savings and avoid unanticipated costs relating to the merger, the difficulty of integrating operations and personnel, the potential disruption of our or the acquired company's ongoing business, the inability of our management to maximize our financial and strategic position, the inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, and the impairment of relationships with the acquired company's employees and customers as a result of changes in ownership and management. These risks may prevent the Corporation from fully realizing the anticipated benefits of an acquisition or cause the realization of such benefits to take longer than expected."
