[1] "ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following risks and other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K in evaluating us and our common stock. The risk factors generally have been separated into three groups: risks related to our business, risks related to the separation and risks related to our common stock and the securities market.. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our operations could be affected by various risks, many of which are beyond our control. Based on current information, we believe that the following list identifies the most significant risk factors that could affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. There may be additional risks and uncertainties that adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows in the future that are not presently known, are not currently believed to be material, or are not identified below because they are common to all businesses. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. For more information, see \"Forward-Looking Statements.\". Risks Related to Our Business. Deterioration in the global economic conditions in any of the industries in which our customers operate, or a worldwide financial downturn, or negative credit market conditions may have a materially adverse effect on our liquidity, results of operations, cash flows, business and financial condition that we cannot predict.. Economic conditions in a number of industries in which our customers operate, such as electric power generation and steelmaking, substantially deteriorated in recent years and reduced the demand for coal. The general economic challenges for some of our customers continued in 2017 and the outlook is uncertain. In addition, liquidity is essential to our business and developing our assets. Renewed or continued weakness in the economic conditions of any of the industries we serve or are served by our customers could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity in a number of ways. For example:. • demand for electricity in the United States is impacted by industrial production, which if weakened would negatively impact the revenues, margins and profitability of our coal business;. • demand for metallurgical coal depends on steel demand in the United States and globally, which, if weakened, would negatively impact the revenues, margins and profitability of our metallurgical coal business including our ability to sell our thermal coal as higher priced high volatile metallurgical coal;. • the tightening of credit or lack of credit availability to our customers could adversely affect our ability to collect our trade receivables;. • our ability to access the capital markets may be restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to raise capital for our business including for exploration and/or development of our coal reserves, or for strategic acquisitions of assets; and. • a decline in our creditworthiness, which may require us to post letters of credit, cash collateral, or surety bonds to secure certain obligations, all of which would have an adverse effect on our liquidity.. Prices for coal are volatile and can fluctuate widely based upon a number of factors beyond our control including oversupply relative to the demand available for our coal, weather and the price and availability of alternative fuels. A substantial or extended decline in the prices we receive for our coal will adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Our financial results are significantly affected by the prices we receive for our coal and depend, in part, on the margins that we receive on sales of our coal.  Our margins reflect the price we receive for our coal over our cost of producing and transporting our coal.  Prices and quantities under our multi-year sales contracts are generally based on expectations of future coal prices at the time the contract is entered into, renewed, extended or re-opened.  The expectation of future prices for coal depends upon many factors.   In addition, demand can fluctuate widely due to a number of matters beyond our control, including:. • the market price for coal;. • changes in the consumption pattern of industrial consumers, electricity generators and residential end-users of electricity;. • weather conditions in our markets which affect the demand for thermal coal (for example, the unusually warm 2015 - 2016 winter left utilities with large coal stockpiles and depressed the demand for thermal coal);. • competition from other coal suppliers;. • the price and availability of alternative fuels and sources for electricity generation, especially natural gas and renewable energy sources;. • with respect to thermal coal, the price and availability of natural gas and the price and supply of imported liquefied natural gas;. 27. • technological advances affecting energy consumption;. • the costs, availability and capacity of transportation infrastructure;. • overall domestic and global economic conditions, including the supply of and demand for domestic and foreign coal;. • international developments impacting supply of metallurgical coal, including supply side reforms promulgated in China, and continued expected growth in demand for seaborne metallurgical coal in India; and. • the impact of domestic and foreign governmental laws and regulations, including environmental and climate change regulations and regulations affecting the coal mining industry and coal-fired power plants, and delays in the receipt of, failure to receive, failure to maintain or revocation of necessary governmental permits.. The coal industry also faces concerns with respect to oversupply from time to time. For example, abnormally mild winter weather caused U.S. power plant coal stockpiles to reach 196 million tons at the end of December 2015, putting them 44 million tons (29%) above the previous year-end total. Immediately thereafter, U.S. coal exports decreased by 32% during the first half of 2016 compared with the first half of 2015, as global supply exceeded demand for both thermal and metallurgical coal. These factors impacted overall demand and pricing for U.S. coals, contributing to a 19% decline in U.S. coal production from 2015 to 2016. The domestic and international supply-demand fundamentals for coal became more balanced in 2017 versus 2016, as domestic power plant coal inventories were reduced to 143 million tons, or 27 million tons below year-ago levels, as of the end of November 2017, and U.S. coal exports were up by 67% in January-November 2017 versus the same period in 2016. As a result, our average sales price per ton sold increased by 5% from 2016 to 2017, after having fallen by 23% from 2015 to 2016. Although these latest results suggest that prices for our product have begun to rebound, a substantial or extended decline in the prices we receive for our coal could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and liquidity.. Foreign currency fluctuations could adversely affect the competitiveness of our coal abroad.. We compete in international markets against coal produced in other countries. Coal is sold internationally in U.S. dollars and, as a result, general economic conditions in foreign markets and changes in foreign currency exchange rates may provide our foreign competitors with a competitive advantage. As a result, mining costs in competing producing countries may be reduced in U.S. dollar terms based on currency exchange rates, providing an advantage to foreign coal producers. If our competitors' currencies decline against the U.S. dollar or against our foreign customers' local currencies, those competitors may be able to offer lower prices for coal to our customers. Furthermore, if the currencies of our overseas customers were to significantly decline in value in comparison to the U.S. dollar, those customers may seek decreased prices for the coal we sell to them. Consequently, currency fluctuations could adversely affect the competitiveness of our products in international markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. Any significant downtime of our major pieces of mining equipment, including our central preparation plant, could impair our ability to supply coal to our customers and materially and adversely affect our results of operations.. We depend on several major pieces of mining equipment to produce and transport our coal, including, but not limited to, longwall mining systems, continuous mining units, our central preparation plant and related facilities, conveyors and transloading facilities. If any of these pieces of equipment or facilities suffered major damage or were destroyed by fire, abnormal wear, flooding, incorrect operation or otherwise, we may be unable to replace or repair them in a timely manner or at a reasonable cost, which would impact our ability to produce and transport coal and materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. All of the coal from our mines is processed at a single, central-preparation plant and loaded on to rail cars using a dual-batch train loadout facility. If either of our central preparation plant or train loadout facility suffers extended downtime, including from major damage, or is destroyed, our ability to process and deliver coal to our customers would be materially impacted, which would materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.. If our coal customers do not extend existing contracts or do not enter into new multi-year coal sales contracts on favorable terms, profitability of our operations could be adversely affected.. During the year ended December 31, 2017, approximately 68% of the coal the Company produced was sold under multi-year sales contracts. If a substantial portion of our multi-year sales contracts are modified or terminated, if force majeure is exercised, or if we are unable to replace or extend the contracts or new contracts are priced at lower levels, our profitability would be adversely affected. In addition, if customers refuse to accept shipments of our coal for which they have existing contractual obligations, our revenues will decrease and we may have to reduce production at our mines until such customers honor their contractual obligations and begin accepting shipments of our coal again.. The profitability of our multi-year sales coal supply contracts depends on a variety of factors, which vary from contract to contract and fluctuate during the contract term, including our production costs and other factors. Price changes, if any, provided in long-. 28. term supply contracts may not reflect our cost increases, and therefore, increases in our costs may reduce our profit margins. In addition, during periods of declining market prices, provisions in our long-term coal contracts for adjustment or renegotiation of prices and other provisions may increase our exposure to short-term coal price and electric power price volatility. As a result, we may not be able to obtain long-term agreements at favorable prices compared to either market conditions, as they may change from time to time, or our cost structure, which may reduce our profitability.. The loss of, or significant reduction in, purchases by our largest coal customers or the failure of any of our customers to buy and pay for coal they committed to purchase could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from two customers: Duke Energy and XCoal. For the year ended December 31, 2017, Duke Energy and XCoal each accounted for over 10% of our total coal sales revenue and aggregated approximately 31% of our coal sales in fiscal year 2017. At January 1, 2018, we had nine coal supply agreements with Duke Energy and XCoal that expire at various times in 2018 and 2019. There are inherent risks whenever a significant percentage of total revenues are concentrated with a limited number of customers. Revenues from our largest customers may fluctuate from time to time based on numerous factors, including market conditions, which may be outside of our control. If any of our largest customers experience declining revenues due to market, economic or competitive conditions, we could be pressured to reduce the prices that we charge for our coal, which could have an adverse effect on our margins, profitability, cash flows and financial position. Additionally, one of our customers is currently under bankruptcy protection, and, thus, may be unable to purchase coal from us at the same levels it did prior to entering into bankruptcy protection. If any customers were to significantly reduce their purchases of coal from us, including by failing to buy and pay for coal they committed to purchase in sales contracts, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected.. Our ability to collect payments from our customers could be impaired if their creditworthiness declines or if they fail to honor their contracts with us.. Our ability to receive payment for coal sold and delivered depends on the continued creditworthiness of our customers. Many utilities have sold their power plants to non-regulated affiliates or third parties that may be less creditworthy, thereby increasing the risk we bear with respect to payment default. These new power plant owners may have credit ratings that are below investment grade. In addition, some of our customers have been adversely affected by the current industry downturn, which may impact their ability to fulfill their contractual obligations. Competition with other coal suppliers could force us to extend credit to customers and on terms that could increase the risk we bear with respect to payment default. We also have contracts to supply coal to energy trading and brokering customers under which those customers sell coal to end users. If the creditworthiness of our energy trading and brokering customers declines, we may not be able to collect payment for all coal sold and delivered to these customers. If the creditworthiness of our customers declines significantly, our business could be adversely affected. In addition, if customers refuse to accept shipments of our coal for which they have an existing contractual obligation, our revenues will decrease and we may have to reduce production at our mines until our customers' contractual obligations are honored. Our inability to collect payment from counterparties to our sales contracts may have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our inability to acquire additional coal reserves that are economically recoverable may have a material adverse effect on our future profitability.. Our profitability depends substantially on our ability to mine, in a cost-effective manner, coal reserves that possess the quality characteristics that our customers desire. Because our reserves decline as we mine our coal, our future profitability depends upon our ability to acquire additional coal reserves that are economically recoverable to replace the reserves we produce. If we fail to acquire or develop sufficient additional reserves over the long term to replace the reserves depleted by our production, our existing reserves will eventually be depleted, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Decreases in demand for electricity and changes in coal consumption patterns of U.S. electric power generators could adversely affect our business.. Our business is closely linked to domestic demand for electricity, and any changes in coal consumption by U.S. electric power generators would likely impact our business over the long term. According to the EIA, in 2017, the domestic electric power sector accounted for approximately 93% of total U.S. coal consumption. In 2017, the Pennsylvania Mining Complex sold approximately 65% of its coal to U.S. electric power generators, and we have annual or multi-year contracts in place with these electric power generators for a significant portion of our future production. The amount of coal consumed by the electric power generation industry is affected by, among other things:. 29. • general economic conditions, particularly those affecting industrial electric power demand, such as a downturn in the U.S. economy and financial markets;. • overall demand for electricity;. • indirect competition from alternative fuel sources for power generation, such as natural gas, fuel oil, nuclear, hydroelectric, wind and solar power, and the location, availability, quality and price of those alternative fuel sources;. • environmental and other governmental regulations, including those impacting coal-fired power plants; and. • energy conservation efforts and related governmental policies.. For example, the relatively recent low price of natural gas has resulted, in some instances, in domestic electric power generators increasing natural gas consumption while decreasing coal consumption. Federal and state mandates for increased use of electricity derived from renewable energy sources could affect demand for our coal. Such mandates, combined with other incentives to use renewable energy sources, such as tax credits, could make alternative fuel sources more competitive with coal. A decrease in coal consumption by the electric power generation industry could adversely affect the price of coal, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. According to the EIA, although electricity demand fell in only three years between 1950 and 2007, it declined in five of the eight years between 2008 and 2015. The largest drop in electricity demand occurred in 2009, primarily as the result of the steep economic downturn from late 2007 through 2009, which led to a large drop in electricity sales in the industrial sector. Other factors, such as efficiency improvements associated with new appliance standards in the buildings sectors and overall improvement in the efficiency of technologies powered by electricity, have slowed electricity demand growth and may contribute to slower growth in the future, even as the U.S. economy continues its recovery. Further decreases in the demand for electricity, such as decreases that could be caused by a worsening of current economic conditions, a prolonged economic recession or other similar events, could have a material adverse effect on the demand for coal and on our business over the long term.. Changes in the coal industry that affect our customers, such as those caused by decreased electricity demand and increased competition, could also adversely affect our business. Indirect competition from natural gas-fired plants that are relatively more efficient, less expensive to construct and less difficult to permit than coal-fired plants has the most potential to displace a significant amount of coal-fired electric power generation in the near term, particularly from older, less efficient coal-fired powered generators. For example, according to the EIA, installed U.S. natural gas-fired net summer generating capacity increased by about 7 gigawatts from 2014-2015, while installed coal-fired net summer generating capacity decreased by about 19 gigawatts over the same period. Additionally, there are currently no new coal-fired plants under construction in the United States and there is no guarantee that new coal-fired power plants will be constructed in the United States. If no new coal-fired power plants are constructed in the United States, the Company could be forced to rely more heavily on foreign customers to purchase its coal. Finally, uncertainty caused by federal and state regulations could cause coal customers to be uncertain of their coal requirements in future years, which could adversely affect our ability to sell coal to our customers under multi-year sales contracts.. The availability and reliability of transportation facilities and fluctuations in transportation costs could affect the demand for our coal, and any significant damage to the CONSOL Marine Terminal that impacts its use could impair our ability to supply coal to our customers.. Transportation logistics play an important role in allowing us to supply coal to our customers. Any significant delays, interruptions or other limitations on the ability to transport our coal could negatively affect our operations. Our coal is transported from the Pennsylvania Mining Complex by rail, truck or a combination of these methods. To reach markets and end customers, our coal may also be transported by barge or by ocean vessels loaded at terminals, including our CONSOL Marine Terminal. Disruption of transportation services because of weather-related problems, strikes, lock-outs, terrorism, governmental regulation, third-party action or other events could temporarily impair our ability to supply coal to customers and adversely affect our profitability. In addition, transportation costs represent a significant portion of the delivered cost of coal and, as a result, the cost of delivery is a critical factor in a customer's purchasing decision. Increases in transportation costs, including increases resulting from emission control requirements and fluctuation in the price of diesel fuel and demurrage, could make our coal less competitive. Any disruption of the transportation services we use or increase in transportation costs could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Disruption in shipment levels over longer periods of time at the CONSOL Marine Terminal could cause our customers to look to other sources for their coal needs, negatively affecting our revenues and results of operations.. Competition within the coal industry may adversely affect our ability to sell coal. Increased competition or a loss of our competitive position could adversely affect our sales of, or our prices for, our coal, which could impair our profitability.. We compete with other producers primarily on the basis of price, coal quality, transportation costs and reliability of delivery. We compete with coal producers in various regions of the United States and with some foreign coal producers for domestic sales. 30. primarily to electric power generators. We also compete with both domestic and foreign coal producers for sales in international markets. Demand for our coal by our principal customers is affected by the delivered price of competing coals, other fuel supplies and alternative generating sources, including nuclear, natural gas, oil and renewable energy sources, such as hydroelectric, wind and solar power.. We sell coal to foreign electricity generators and to the more specialized metallurgical coal market, both of which are significantly affected by international demand and competition. Competition from other producers may or may not adversely affect us in the future. The coal industry has experienced consolidation in recent years, including consolidation among some of our major competitors. As a result, a substantial portion of coal production is from companies that have significantly greater resources than we do. Current or further consolidation in the coal industry or current or future bankruptcy proceedings of coal competitors may or may not adversely affect us. In addition, increases in coal prices could encourage existing producers to expand capacity or could encourage new producers to enter the market. If overcapacity results, the prices of and demand for our coal could significantly decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. In addition, we face competition from foreign producers that sell their coal in the export market. Potential changes to international trade agreements, trade concessions or other political and economic arrangements may benefit coal producers operating in countries other than the United States. We may be adversely impacted on the basis of price or other factors with companies that in the future may benefit from favorable foreign trade policies or other arrangements.. The characteristics of coal may make it costly for electric power generators and other coal users to comply with various environmental standards regarding the emissions of impurities released when coal is burned which could cause utilities to replace coal-fired power plants with alternative fuels. In addition, various incentives have been proposed to encourage the generation of electricity from renewable energy sources. A reduction in the use of coal for electric power generation could decrease the volume of our domestic coal sales and adversely affect our results of operations.. Coal contains impurities, including sulfur, mercury, chlorine and other elements or compounds, many of which are released into the air along with fine particulate matter and carbon dioxide when it is burned. Complying with regulations on these emissions can be costly for electric power generators. For example, in order to meet the federal Clean Air Act limits for sulfur dioxide emissions from electric power plants, coal users will need to install scrubbers, use sulfur dioxide emission allowances (some of which they may purchase) or switch to other fuels. Each option has limitations. Lower sulfur coal may be more costly to purchase on an energy basis than higher sulfur coal depending on mining and transportation costs. The cost of installing scrubbers is significant and emission allowances may become more expensive as their availability declines. Switching to other fuels may require expensive modification of existing plants. Because higher sulfur coal currently accounts for a significant portion of our sales, the extent to which electric power generators switch to alternative fuel could materially affect us. Recent EPA rulemaking proceedings requiring additional reductions in permissible emission levels of impurities by coal-fired plants will likely make it more costly to operate coal-fired electric power plants and may make coal a less attractive fuel alternative for electric power generation in the future. Examples are (i) implementation of the Cross-State Air Pollution Rule to require reductions of seasonal nitrogen oxides emissions from power plants in the eastern United States to address ozone pollution; and (ii) the Utility Maximum Achievable Control Technology rule, better known as the Mercury and Air Toxics Standard rule, which included more stringent new source performance standards for particulate matter, mercury, sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides, for new and existing coal-fired power plants. The rule was rejected by the U.S. Supreme Court on June 29, 2015 and sent back to the D.C. Circuit Court to determine whether to remand and allow the EPA to address the rule's deficiencies or to vacate and nullify the rule; nevertheless most coal-fired electric power generators have already taken steps to comply with the rule. On April 18, 2017 the EPA asked the Court to delay arguments over MATS to allow the Trump Administration time to fully review the findings. On April 21, 2017, the Court granted the requested stay.. Apart from actual and potential regulation of emissions, water use, waste water discharge and solid waste management from coal-fired plants, state and federal mandates for increased use of electricity from renewable energy sources could have an impact on the market for our coal. Several states have enacted legislative mandates requiring electricity suppliers to use renewable energy sources to generate a certain percentage of power. There have been numerous proposals to establish a similar uniform, national standard although none of these proposals have been enacted to date. Possible advances in technologies and incentives, such as tax credits, to enhance the economics of renewable energy sources could make these sources more competitive with coal. Any reductions in the amount of coal consumed by domestic electric power generators as a result of current or new standards for the emission of impurities or incentives to switch to alternative fuels or renewable energy sources could reduce the demand for our coal, thereby reducing our revenues and adversely affecting our business and results of operations.. 31. Regulation of greenhouse gas emissions may increase our operating costs and reduce the value of our coal assets and such regulation, as well as uncertainty concerning such regulation could adversely impact the market for coal, as well as for our securities.. While climate change legislation in the U.S. is unlikely in the next several years, the issue of global climate change continues to attract considerable public and scientific attention with widespread concern about the impacts of human activity, especially the emissions of GHGs such as carbon dioxide and methane. Combustion of fossil fuels, such as the coal we produce, results in the creation of carbon dioxide emissions into the atmosphere by coal end-users, such as coal-fired electric power generation plants. Numerous proposals have been made and are likely to continue to be made at the international, national, regional and state levels of government that are intended to limit emissions of GHGs. Several states have already adopted measures requiring reduction of GHGs within state boundaries. Other states have elected to participate in voluntary regional cap-and-trade programs like the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative in the northeastern U.S. Additionally, increasing attention to climate change risk has resulted in an increased possibility of governmental investigations and, potentially, private litigation against the Company.. The Obama Administration laid out the Climate Action Plan to limit emissions of CO2 from coal-fired and natural gas-fired power plants. The EPA proposed numerous regulatory actions to address CO2, including New Source Performance Standards for CO2 from both new power plants and existing and modified/reconstructed power plants. The agency's CPP Rule, which went into effect on December 22, 2015, set state-specific rate-based goals for CO2 emissions from existing fossil fuel-fired electric generating units, and created emission guidelines for states to follow in developing plans to address greenhouse gas emissions from existing fossil fuel-fired electric generating units. Numerous petitions challenging the CPP Rule were consolidated into one case, West Virginia v. EPA. While the litigation was still ongoing at the circuit court level, a mid-litigation application to the Supreme Court resulted in a stay of the CPP Rule. On September 27, 2016, an en banc panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit heard oral arguments in the case. The decision, originally expected in early 2017, has been stayed as a result of a March 28, 2017 executive order directing the EPA to begin the process of reviewing and possibly rescinding the CPP Rule. The EPA filed a motion and the motion was granted by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit requesting the stay while the EPA conducts their review of the CPP Rule. If the review does not result in any rule changes, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit will rule on the legality of the CPP Rule. On October 16, 2017, the EPA proposed a new rule which, if finalized, would rescind the CPP Rule.. The current Administration's executive order promoting energy independence and economic growth issued on March 28, 2017 requires the review of existing regulations that potentially burden the development or use of domestically produced energy resources. The review of existing regulations may not result in any changes and any changes made to existing regulations may not produce the intended favorable results desired by the new Administration. The executive order also directed the Council on Environmental Quality to rescind its final guidance entitled, \"Final Guidance for Federal Departments and Agencies on Consideration of Greenhouse Gas Emissions and the Effects of Climate Change in National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) Reviews.\" The guidance previously directed agencies to consider proposed actions and their effects on climate change (GHG emissions would have been a key indicator being assessed under any NEPA review). Such review considerations may have created additional delays or costs in any NEPA review processes for energy producers and generators and may have prevented the acquisition of any necessary federal approvals for energy producers and generators.. Internationally, the Kyoto Protocol, which set binding emission targets for developed countries (which was not ratified by the United States) was nominally extended past its expiration date of December 2012 with a requirement for a new legal construct to be put into place by 2015. In December 2015, the United Nations Climate Change Conference was held and an agreement was reached between the countries participating in the conference, including the United States, to limit global warming to less than 2 degrees Celsius (3.6° Fahrenheit) compared to pre-industrial levels. This agreement, known as the Paris Agreement, calls for zero net anthropogenic greenhouse gas emission to be reached during the second half of the 21st century. Each party is to prepare a plan on its contributions to reach this goal; each plan is to be filed in a publicly available registry. The Paris Agreement does not create any binding obligations for nations to limit their GHG emissions but rather includes pledges to voluntarily limit or reduce future emissions. Although the United States became a party to the Paris Agreement in April 2016, the current Administration subsequently terminated its participation in June 2017. However, the Paris Agreement stipulates that participating countries must wait four years before withdrawing from the agreement.. Additionally, coalbed methane must be expelled from our underground coal mines for mining safety reasons and is vented into the atmosphere when the coal is mined. If regulation of GHG emissions does not exempt the release of coalbed methane, we may have to further reduce our methane emissions, pay higher taxes, incur costs to purchase credits that permit us to continue operations as they now exist at our underground coal mines or perhaps curtail coal production. In 2010, the EPA declined a petition to regulate methane emissions from coal mines, and on May 13, 2014 the U.S. Court of Appeals upheld the EPA's denial of the petition.. 32. Apart from governmental regulation, investment banks based both domestically and internationally have announced that they have adopted climate change guidelines for lenders. The guidelines require the evaluation of carbon risks in the financing of electric power generation plants which may make it more difficult for utilities to obtain financing for coal-fired plants.. Adoption of comprehensive legislation or regulation focusing on GHG emission reductions for the United States or other countries where we sell coal, or the inability of utilities to obtain financing in connection with coal-fired plants, may make it more costly to operate fossil fuel fired (especially coal-fired) electric power generation plants and make fossil fuels less attractive for electric utility power plants in the future. Depending on the nature of the regulation or legislation, natural gas-fueled power generation could become more economically attractive than coal-fueled power generation. Apart from actual regulation, uncertainty over the extent of regulation of GHG emissions may inhibit utilities from investing in the building of new coal-fired plants to replace older plants or investing in the upgrading of existing coal-fired plants. Any reduction or substantial delay in the amount of coal consumed by domestic electric power generators as a result of actual or potential regulation of greenhouse gas emissions could decrease demand for our fossil fuels, thereby reducing our revenues and materially and adversely affecting our business and results of operations. Our customers may also have to invest in carbon dioxide capture and storage technologies in order to burn coal and comply with future GHG emission standards.. In addition, there have also been efforts in recent years affecting the investment community, including investment advisers, sovereign wealth funds, public pension funds, universities and other groups, promoting the divestment of fossil fuel equities and also pressuring lenders to limit funding to companies engaged in the extraction of fossil fuel reserves. The impact of such efforts may adversely affect the demand for and price of securities issued by us, and impact our access to the capital and financial markets.. Environmental regulations introduce uncertainty that could adversely impact the market for coal with potential short and long-term liabilities.. The Company utilizes certain pipelines in connection with its coal businesses. Mitigation permits from the Army Corps of Engineers are typically required for certain impacts these pipelines cause to streams and wetlands. On June 29, 2015 the EPA promulgated a proposed rule called Definition of 'Waters of the United States' Under the Clean Water Act. The rule expanded the scope of the CWA to include previously non-jurisdictional streams, wetlands, and waters, making these areas jurisdictional inter-coastal waters of the U.S. On August 27, 2015, the District Court of North Dakota blocked implementation of the rule in 13 states prior to the rule's effective date of August 28, 2015. On October 9, 2015, the Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit blocked implementation of the rule nationwide. On February 28, 2017, Presidential Executive Order on Restoring the Rule of Law, Federalism, and Economic Growth by reviewing the 'Waters of the United States' Rule was issued. In response, on June 27, 2017, the EPA, Department of the Army, and the Army Corps of Engineers issued a rule proposing to re-codify the definition of waters of the United States to the text that existed prior to the 2015 Clean Water Rule. The proposed rule provides certainty in the interim period until a subsequent rulemaking on the definition of waters of the United States can be finalized. On January 22, 2018, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that challenges to the rule are properly heard by federal district courts and not federal courts of appeal. This decision implicates the nationwide injunction previously enacted by the Sixth Circuit, but has no impact on the current Administration's efforts to replace the rulemaking.. Management and regulation of point source discharges covered under the National Pollutant Discharge Eliminations System (\"NPDES\") of the CWA have undergone recent changes and proposed changes at both the state and federal level that have the potential to affect the long-term treatment and discharge of water from coal mines. CWA section 304(b) requires the EPA to annually review and, if appropriate, revise Effluent Guidelines. States are required by the CWA to conduct a comprehensive review of the state water quality standards every three years. On December 23, 2016, the EPA published a draft Field-Based Methods for Developing Aquatic Life Criteria for Specific Conductivity, which could impact NPDES permits with conductivity limits. However, this draft document is also under review pursuant to Executive Order 13783.. Our business involves many hazards and operating risks, some of which may not be fully covered by insurance.  The occurrence of a significant accident or other event that is not fully insured could curtail our operations and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Our coal mining operations are underground mines. Underground mining and related processing activities present inherent risks of injury to persons and damage to property and equipment. Our mines are subject to a number of operating risks that could disrupt operations, decrease production and increase the cost of mining at particular mines for varying lengths of time thereby adversely affecting our operating results. In addition, if an operating risk occurs in our mining operations, we may not be able to produce sufficient amounts of coal to deliver under our multi-year coal contracts. Our inability to satisfy contractual obligations could result in our customers initiating claims against us or canceling their contracts. The operating risks that may have a significant impact on our coal operations include:. 33. • variations in thickness of the layer, or seam, of coal;. • adverse geological conditions, including amounts of rock and other natural materials intruding into the coal seam that could affect the stability of the roof and the side walls of the mine - for example, unit costs were negatively impacted in 2017 and 2016 due to adverse geological conditions at Enlow Fork Mine, primarily related to sandstone intrusions, which resulted in reduced coal production at that mine;. • environmental hazards;. • equipment failures or unexpected maintenance problems;. • fires or explosions, including as a result of methane, coal, coal dust or other explosive materials and/or other accidents;. • inclement or hazardous weather conditions and natural disasters or other force majeure events;. • seismic activities, ground failures, rock bursts or structural cave-ins or slides;. • delays in moving our longwall equipment;. • railroad derailments;. • security breaches or terroristic acts; and. • other hazards that could also result in personal injury and loss of life, pollution and suspension of operations.. The occurrence of any of these risks at our coal mining operations could adversely affect our ability to conduct our operations or result in substantial loss to us as a result of claims for:. • personal injury or loss of life;. • damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, including our coal properties and our coal production or transportation facilities;. • pollution and other environmental damage to our properties or the properties of others;. • potential legal liability and monetary losses;. • regulatory investigations and penalties;. • suspension of our operations; and. • repair and remediation costs.. In addition, the occurrence of any of these events in our coal mining operations which prevents our delivery of coal to a customer and which is not excusable as a force majeure event under our coal sales agreement, could result in economic penalties, suspension or cancellation of shipments or ultimately termination of the coal sales agreement.. Although we maintain insurance for a number of risks and hazards, we may not be insured or fully insured against the losses or liabilities that could arise from a significant accident in our coal operations. We may elect not to obtain insurance for any or all of these risks if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. Moreover, a significant mine accident could potentially cause a mine shutdown. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. In addition, if any of the foregoing changes, conditions or events occurs and is not excusable as a force majeure event, any resulting failure on our part to deliver coal to the purchaser under our contracts could result in economic penalties, suspension or cancellation of shipments or ultimately termination of the agreement, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. All of our mines are part of a single mining complex and are exclusively located in the Northern Appalachian Basin, making us vulnerable to risks associated with operating in a single geographic area.. All of our operations are conducted at a single mining complex located in the Northern Appalachian Basin in southwestern Pennsylvania. The geographic concentration of our operations at the Pennsylvania Mining Complex may disproportionately expose us to disruptions in our operations if the region experiences adverse conditions or events, including severe weather, transportation capacity constraints, constraints on the availability of required equipment, facilities, personnel or services, significant governmental regulation or natural disasters. If any of these factors were to impact the Northern Appalachian Basin more than other coal producing regions, our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows will be adversely affected relative to other mining companies that have a more geographically diversified asset portfolio.. Our mines are located in areas containing oil and natural gas shale plays, which may require us to coordinate our operations with oil and natural gas drillers.. All of our coal reserves are in areas containing shale oil and natural gas plays, including the Marcellus Shale, which are currently the subject of substantial exploration for oil and natural gas, particularly by horizontal drilling. If we have received a permit for. 34. our mining activities, then while we will have to coordinate our mining with such oil and natural gas drillers, our mining activities will have priority over any oil and natural gas drillers with respect to the land covered by our permit. For reserves outside of our permits, we engage in discussions with drilling companies on potential areas on which they can drill that may have a minimal effect on our mine plan. If a well is in the path of our mining for coal on land that has not yet been permitted for our mining activities, we may not be able to mine through the well unless we purchase it. Although in the past we have purchased vertical wells, the cost of purchasing a producing horizontal well could be substantially greater than that of a vertical well. Horizontal wells with multiple laterals extending from the well pad may access larger oil and natural gas reserves than a vertical well, which would typically result in a higher cost to acquire. The cost associated with purchasing oil and natural gas wells that are in the path of our coal mining activities may make mining through those wells uneconomical, thereby effectively causing a loss of significant portions of our coal reserves, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. To maintain and grow our business, we will be required to make substantial capital expenditures. If we are unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, our financial leverage could increase.. In order to maintain and grow our business, we will need to make substantial capital expenditures to fund our share of capital expenditures associated with our mines. Maintaining and expanding mines and infrastructure is capital intensive. Specifically, the exploration, permitting and development of coal reserves, mining costs, the maintenance of machinery and equipment and compliance with applicable laws and regulations require substantial capital expenditures. While a significant amount of the capital expenditures required to build out our mining infrastructure has been spent, we must continue to invest capital to maintain or to increase our production. Decisions to increase our production levels could also affect our capital needs.  Our production levels may decrease or may not be able or generate sufficient cash flow, or we may not have access to sufficient financing to continue our production, exploration, permitting and development activities at or above our present levels, and we may be required to defer all or a portion of our capital expenditures. If we do not make sufficient or effective capital expenditures, we will be unable to maintain and grow our business. To fund our capital expenditures, we will be required to use cash from our operations, incur debt or sell additional equity securities. Our ability to obtain bank financing or our ability to access the capital markets for future equity or debt offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing or offering and the covenants in our existing debt agreements, as well as by general economic conditions, contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. In addition, incurring additional debt may significantly increase our interest expense and financial leverage, and issuing additional equity securities may result in significant stockholder dilution.. We may not be able to obtain equipment, parts and raw materials in a timely manner, in sufficient quantities or at reasonable costs to support our coal mining operations.. Coal mining consumes large quantities of commodities including steel, copper, rubber products and liquid fuels and requires the use of capital equipment. Some commodities, such as steel, are needed to comply with roof control plans required by regulation. The prices we pay for commodities and capital equipment are strongly impacted by the global market. A rapid or significant increase in the costs of commodities or capital equipment we use in our operations could impact our mining operations costs because we may have a limited ability to negotiate lower prices, and, in some cases, may not have a ready substitute.. We use equipment in our coal mining and transportation operations such as continuous mining units, conveyors, shuttle cars, rail cars, locomotives, roof bolters, shearers and shields. We procure this equipment from a concentrated group of suppliers, and obtaining this equipment often involves long lead times. Occasionally, demand for such equipment by mining companies can be high and some types of equipment may be in short supply. Delays in receiving or shortages of this equipment, as well as the raw materials used in the manufacturing of supplies and mining equipment, which, in some cases, do not have ready substitutes, or the cancellation of our supply contracts under which we obtain equipment and other consumables, could limit our ability to obtain these supplies or equipment. In addition, if any of our suppliers experiences an adverse event, or decides to no longer do business with us, we may be unable to obtain sufficient equipment and raw materials in a timely manner or at a reasonable price to allow us to meet our production goals and our revenues may be adversely impacted. We use considerable quantities of steel in the mining process. If the price of steel or other materials increases substantially or if the value of the U.S. dollar declines relative to foreign currencies with respect to certain imported supplies or other products, our operating expenses could increase. Any of the foregoing events could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. We must obtain, maintain and renew governmental permits and approvals which if we cannot obtain in a timely manner would reduce our production, cash flow and results of operations.. Our coal production is dependent on our ability to obtain various federal and state permits and approvals to mine our coal reserves. The permitting rules, and the interpretations of these rules, are complex, change frequently and are often subject to discretionary interpretations by regulators. The EPA also has the authority to veto permits issued by the Army Corps of Engineers under the. 35. Clean Water Act's Section 404 program that prohibits the discharge of dredged or fill material into regulated waters without a permit. In addition, the public, including non-governmental organizations and individuals, have certain statutory rights to comment upon and otherwise impact the permitting process, including through court intervention. The pace with which the government issues permits needed for new operations and/or for on-going operations to continue mining continues to pose significant negative effects. Further, in 2011 the EPA revoked an Army Corps of Engineers issued Section 404 permit to a coal mining operator. Following the U.S. Supreme Court's refusal in March 2012 to hear an appeal from the D.C. Circuit Court's ruling upholding the EPA's power to revoke a permit, in September 2014 the U.S. Court of Appeals upheld the EPA's action to revoke the permit. In addition, in July 2014 the D.C Circuit reversed a lower court's decision and affirmed the EPA's authority to adopt the Enhanced Coordination Process governing coordination with the Army Corps of Engineers in the processing of CWA permits. The Court also rejected challenges to EPA's 2012 \"Final Guidance\" document regarding appropriate permit conditions, namely those affecting acceptable conductivity limits (e.g., acceptable ionic strength to support aquatic life). However, the Court left it up to the states on whether to adopt the guideline recommendations when issuing final NPDES permits. This decision has left coal mining permits in some degree of uncertainty as to whether the EPA will concur with a state's draft permit conditions should they not contain specified  limits regarding conductivity, further increasing operational uncertainty and costs.. Existing and future government laws, regulations and other legal requirements relating to protection of the environment, and others that govern our business may increase our costs of doing business for coal and may restrict our coal operations.. We are subject to laws, regulations and other legal requirements enacted or adopted by federal, state and local authorities, as well as foreign authorities relating to protection of the environment. These include those legal requirements that govern discharges of substances into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites, groundwater quality and availability, threatened and endangered plant and wildlife protection, reclamation and restoration of mining properties after mining is completed, the installation of various safety equipment in our mines, remediation of impacts of surface subsidence from underground mining, and work practices related to employee health and safety. Complying with these requirements, including the terms of our permits, has had, and will continue to have, a significant effect on our costs of operations and competitive position.. In addition, there is the possibility that we could incur substantial costs as a result of violations under environmental laws. Any additional laws, regulations and other legal requirements enacted or adopted by federal, state and local authorities, as well as foreign authorities or new interpretations of existing legal requirements by regulatory bodies relating to the protection of the environment could further affect our costs of operations and competitive position. The Clean Water Act is being used by opponents of mountain top removal mining as a means to challenge permits and bring citizen suits to make coal mining more expensive. At CONSOL Energy's subsidiary Fola Coal Company, LLC (\"Fola\"), nine citizen suits have been filed challenging water discharge permits. Fola retained liability for six of these suits, and was indemnified from the remaining 3 suits in accordance with the 2016 sale of Fola's assets to Southeastern Land, LLC. Of the six suits retained by Fola, one was dismissed, two were settled, and a federal court has issued liability rulings in the three remaining suits. Fola expects that any financial liability arising from these suits will not have a material impact on its, or the Company's results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. Our mines are subject to stringent federal and state safety regulations that increase our cost of doing business at active operations and may place restrictions on our methods of operation. In addition, government inspectors, under certain circumstances, have the ability to order our operations to be shutdown based on safety considerations.. The Federal Coal Mine Safety and Health Act and Mine Improvement and New Emergency Response Act impose stringent health and safety standards on mining operations. Regulations that have been adopted are comprehensive and affect numerous aspects of mining operations, including training of mine personnel, mining procedures, the equipment used in mine emergency procedures and other matters. States in which we operate have programs for mine safety and health regulation and enforcement. The various requirements mandated by law or regulation can place restrictions on our methods of operations, and potentially lead to penalties for the violation of such requirements, creating a significant effect on operating costs and productivity. In addition, government inspectors under certain circumstances, have the ability to order our operation to be shutdown based on safety considerations. If an incident were to occur at one of our coal mines, it could be shut down for an extended period of time and our reputation with our customers could be materially damaged.. Our operations may impact the environment or cause exposure to hazardous substances, and our properties may have environmental contamination, which could result in liabilities to us.. Our operations currently use hazardous materials and generate limited quantities of hazardous wastes from time to time. Drainage flowing from or caused by mining activities can be acidic with elevated levels of dissolved metals, a condition referred to as \"acid mine drainage.\" We could become subject to claims for toxic torts, natural resource damages and other damages, as well as for the investigation and clean-up of soil, surface water, groundwater and other media. Such claims may arise, for example, out of. 36. conditions at sites that we currently own or operate, as well as at sites that we previously owned or operated, or may acquire. Our liability for such claims may be joint and several, so that we may be held responsible for more than our share of the contamination or other damages, or for the entire share.. We maintain coal refuse areas and slurry impoundments at the Pennsylvania Mining Complex. Such areas and impoundments are subject to extensive regulation. Structural failure of a slurry impoundment or coal refuse area could result in extensive damage to the environment and natural resources, such as bodies of water that the coal slurry reaches, as well as liability for related personal injuries and property damages, and injuries to wildlife. Some of our impoundments overlie mined out areas, which can pose a heightened risk of failure and of damages arising out of failure. If one of our impoundments were to fail, we could be subject to claims for the resulting environmental contamination and associated liability, as well as for fines and penalties. Our coal refuse areas and slurry impoundments are designed, constructed, and inspected by our company and by regulatory authorities according to stringent environmental and safety standards.. These and other similar unforeseen impacts that our operations may have on the environment, as well as exposures to hazardous substances or wastes associated with our operations, could result in costs and liabilities that could adversely affect us. An example of this is Naturally Occurring Radioactive Material (NORM) or Technologically-Enhanced, Naturally Occurring Radioactive Material (TENORM). NORM or TENORM is produced when activities such as deep drilling concentrate or expose radioactive materials that occur naturally in ores, soils, water, or other natural materials. State and federal agencies are examining the possibility for worker exposure or associated environmental hazards due to processing and disposal of wastes containing NORM or TENORM.. We have reclamation, mine closing obligations and gas well plugging obligations. If the assumptions underlying our accruals are inaccurate, we could be required to expend greater amounts than anticipated.. The Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act as well as various state laws establish operational, reclamation and closure standards for all our coal mining operations and require us, under certain circumstances, to plug natural gas wells. We accrue for the costs of current mine disturbance, gas well plugging and of final mine closure, including the cost of treating mine water discharge where necessary. Estimates of our total reclamation, mine-closing and degasification and well plugging liabilities, which are based upon permit requirements and our experience, were approximately $259 million at December 31, 2017. The amounts recorded are dependent upon a number of variables, including the estimated future closure costs, estimated proved reserves, assumptions involving profit margins, inflation rates, and the assumed credit-adjusted risk-free interest rates. If these accruals are insufficient or our liability in a particular year is greater than currently anticipated, our future operating results could be adversely affected.. Most states where we operate and/or have non-operating mines require us to post bonds for the full cost of coal mine reclamation (\"full cost bonding\"). West Virginia is not a full cost bonding state. West Virginia has an alternative bond system for coal mine reclamation which consists of (i) individual site bonds posted by the permittee that are less than the full estimated reclamation cost plus (ii) a bond pool (\"Special Reclamation Fund\") funded by a per ton fee on coal mined in the State which is used to supplement the site specific bonds if needed in the event of bond forfeiture. In an effort to settle a citizen suit filed in 2012 before the U.S. District Court in West Virginia related to the Special Reclamation Fund being underfunded the WV legislature authorized an increase in the per ton fee levied on coal production to make up the shortfall. The Special Reclamation Fund became fully funded in June of 2016. There remains the possibility that WV may move to full cost bonding in the future which could cause individual mining companies and/or surety companies to exceed bonding capacity and would result in the need to post cash bonds or letters of credit which would reduce operating capital.. Pennsylvania is expanding its full cost bonding program to cover all coal mine bonding, further increasing the amount of surety bonds we must seek in order to permit its mining activities. We have been generally able to post surety bonds with the states to secure our reclamation obligations. If our creditworthiness declines, states may seek to require us to post letters of credit or cash collateral to secure those obligations, or we may be unable to obtain surety bonds, in which case we would be required to post letters of credit. Additionally, the sureties that post bonds on our behalf may require us to post security in order to secure the obligations underlying these bonds. Posting letters of credit in place of surety bonds or posting security to support these surety bonds would have an adverse effect on our liquidity.. We face uncertainties in estimating our economically recoverable coal reserves, and inaccuracies in our estimates could result in lower than expected revenues, higher than expected costs and decreased profitability.. Coal reserves are economically recoverable when the price at which they are expected to be sold exceeds their expected cost of production and selling.  Forecasts of our future performance are based on, among other things, estimates of our recoverable coal reserves. We base our coal reserve information on geologic data, coal ownership information and current and proposed mine plans. These estimates are periodically updated to reflect past coal production, new drilling information and other geologic or mining. 37. data. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities and qualities of economically recoverable coal reserves, including many factors beyond our control. As a result, estimates of economically recoverable coal reserves are by their nature uncertain. Information about our reserves consists of estimates based on engineering, economic and geological data assembled and analyzed by our staff. Some of the factors and assumptions which impact economically recoverable coal reserve estimates include:. • geologic and mining conditions;. • historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas;. • the assumed effects of regulations and taxes by governmental agencies;. • our ability to obtain, maintain and renew all required permits;. • future improvements in mining technology;. • assumptions governing future prices; and. • future operating costs, including the cost of materials and capital expenditures.. In addition, we hold substantial coal reserves in areas containing Marcellus Shale and other shales. These areas are currently the subject of substantial exploration for oil and natural gas, particularly by horizontal drilling. If a natural gas well is in the path of our mining for coal, we may not be able to mine through the well unless we purchase it. Although in the past we have purchased vertical wells, the cost of purchasing a producing horizontal well could be substantially greater. Horizontal wells with multiple laterals extending from the well pad may access larger natural gas reserves than a vertical well which could result in higher costs. In future years, the cost associated with purchasing natural gas wells which are in the path of our coal mining may make mining through those wells uneconomical thereby effectively causing a loss of significant portions of our coal reserves.. Each of the factors which impacts reserve estimation may vary considerably from the assumptions used in estimating the reserves. For these reasons, estimates of coal reserves may vary substantially. Actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to our coal reserves will likely vary from estimates, and these variances may be material. As a result, our estimates may not accurately reflect our actual coal reserves.. Defects may exist in our chain of title for our undeveloped coal reserves where we have not done a thorough chain of title examination of our undeveloped coal reserves. We may incur additional costs and delays to mine coal because we have to acquire additional property rights to perfect our title to coal rights. If we fail to acquire additional property rights to perfect our title to coal rights, we may have to reduce our estimated reserves.. Title to most of our owned or leased properties and mineral rights is not usually verified until we make a commitment to mine a property, which may not occur until after we have obtained necessary permits and completed exploration of the property. In some cases, we rely on title information or representations and warranties provided by our lessors or grantors. Our right to mine certain of our reserves has in the past been, and may again in the future be, adversely affected if defects in title, boundaries or other rights necessary for mining exist or if a lease expires. Any challenge to our title or leasehold interests could delay the mining of the property and could ultimately result in the loss of some or all of our interest in the property. From time to time we also may be in default with respect to leases for properties on which we have mining operations. In such events, we may have to close down or significantly alter the sequence of such mining operations which may adversely affect our future coal production and future revenues. If we mine on property that we do not own or lease, we could incur liability for such mining and be subject to regulatory sanction and penalties.. In order to obtain, maintain or renew leases or mining contracts to conduct our mining operations on property where these defects exist, we may in the future have to incur unanticipated costs. In addition, we may not be able to successfully negotiate new leases or mining contracts for properties containing additional reserves, or maintain our leasehold interests in properties where we have not commenced mining operations during the term of the lease. As a result, our results of operations, business and financial condition may be materially adversely affected.. We and our subsidiaries are subject to various legal proceedings, which may have an adverse effect on our business.. We are party to a number of legal proceedings in the normal course of business activities. Defending these actions, especially purported class actions, can be costly, and can distract management. There is the potential that the costs of defending litigation in an individual matter or the aggregation of many matters could have an adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations or financial position. See Note 20 - Commitments and Contingent Liabilities in the Notes to the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further discussion of pending legal proceedings.. 38. We have obligations for long-term employee benefits for which we accrue based upon assumptions which, if inaccurate, could result in our being required to expense greater amounts than anticipated.. We provide various long-term employee benefits to inactive and retired employees. We accrue amounts for these obligations. At December 31, 2017, the current and non-current portions of these obligations included:. • postretirement medical and life insurance ($592 million);. • coal workers' pneumoconiosis benefits ($163 million);. • pension benefits ($55 million); and. • workers' compensation ($79 million).. However, if our assumptions are inaccurate, we could be required to expend greater amounts than anticipated. Salary retirement benefits are funded in accordance with Employer Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (\"ERISA\") regulations. The other obligations are unfunded. In addition, the federal government and several states in which we operate consider changes in workers' compensation and black lung laws from time to time. Such changes, if enacted, could increase our benefit expense and our collateral requirements. Additionally, former miners and their family members asserting claims for pneumoconiosis benefits have generally been more successful asserting such claims in recent years as a result of the presumption within The PPACA of 2010 that a coal miner with 15 or more years of underground coal mining experience (or the equivalent) who develops a respiratory condition and meets the requirements for total disability under the Federal Act is presumed to be disabled due to coal dust exposure thereby shifting the burden of proof from the employee to the employer/insurer to establish that this disability is not due to coal dust. The increasing success rate of such claims based upon the PPACA changed presumption and, as a result, the increasing expense incurred by us to insure against such claims, could increase our expenses for long-term employee benefit obligations.. The provisions of our debt agreements and the risks associated with our debt could adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations.. As of December 31, 2017, our total long-term indebtedness was approximately $917 million, of which approximately $300 million was under our 11.00% senior secured notes due 2025, $103 million was under our Maryland Economic Development Corporation Port Facilities Refunding Revenue Bonds (\"MEDCO\") 5.75% revenue bonds due September 2025, $100 million was under our Term Loan A Facility, $400 million was under our Term Loan B Facility, $12 million of capitalized leases due through 2021, and $2 million of miscellaneous debt. At December 31, 2017, no borrowings were outstanding under our $300 million revolving credit facility or our $100 million accounts receivable securitization facility. The degree to which we are leveraged could have important consequences, including, but not limited to:. • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of interest and principal due under our outstanding debt, which will limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, share buy-back programs, acquisitions, pay dividends, development of our coal reserves or other general corporate requirements;. • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and in the coal industry;. • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors with lower leverage and better access to capital resources; and. • limiting our ability to implement our business strategy.. Our senior secured credit agreement and the indenture governing our 11.00% senior secured notes limit the incurrence of additional indebtedness unless specified tests or exceptions are met. In addition, our senior secured credit agreement and the indenture governing our 11.00% senior secured notes subject us to financial and/or other restrictive covenants. Under our senior secured credit agreement, we must comply with certain financial covenants on a quarterly basis including a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, as defined therein. Our senior secured credit agreement and the indenture governing our 11.00% senior secured notes impose a number of restrictions upon us, such as restrictions on granting liens on our assets, making investments, paying dividends, stock repurchases, selling assets and engaging in acquisitions. Failure by us to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on us.. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to sell assets, seek additional capital or seek to restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to sell material assets or operations to attempt to meet our debt service and other obligations. Our senior secured credit agreement and the indenture governing our 11.00% senior secured notes restrict our. 39. ability to sell assets and use the proceeds from the sales. We may not be able to consummate those sales or to obtain the proceeds which we could realize from them and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due.. Increases in interest rates could adversely affect our business.. We have exposure to increases in interest rates. Based on our current variable debt level of $492 million as of December 31, 2017, comprised of funds drawn on our revolving credit facility, Term Loan A and Term Loan B Facilities, an increase of one percentage point in the interest rate will result in an increase in annual interest expense of $5 million. As a result, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by significant increases in interest rates.. We have entered into an affiliated company credit agreement with CONSOL Coal Resources LP and we may need to secure additional financing for our own operations.. We have entered into an Affiliated Company Credit Agreement with CONSOL Coal Resources LP pursuant to which we, as lender, will provide for CCR a revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of up to $275 million. In funding the Affiliated Company Credit Agreement, we have less cash flow available to support our operations and other activities. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows in the future to support our operations and service our debt as a result of funding the Affiliated Company Credit Agreement, we may be required to refinance all or a portion of our existing debt or to obtain additional financing. There can be no assurance that any refinancing will be possible or that any additional financing could be obtained on acceptable terms. The inability to service or refinance our existing debt or to obtain additional financing would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity and results of operations. Furthermore, because we finance CCR's operations through the affiliated company credit agreement and because that credit agreement contains covenants that may prevent CCR from acquiring additional indebtedness, CCR may be unable to finance the acquisition of any assets we wish to drop down to it which could materially impact our financial condition and cash flows.. A failure by Murray Energy to satisfy certain liabilities it assumed from CNX, perform its obligations under various agreements, the performance of which by Murray Energy CNX guaranteed, or under various agreements with CNX, could require us to indemnify CNX, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. In 2013, Murray Energy and its subsidiaries (\"Murray Energy\") acquired approximately $2.4 billion of liabilities which had been reflected on CNX's books. The consolidated balance sheet liabilities at the time of sale were comprised of approximately $2.1 billion of other postemployment benefits and other liabilities. In addition to these assumed liabilities, Murray Energy acquired or assumed certain CNX payment obligations, performance guarantees, equipment leases or subleases. The current maximum estimated exposure under the Murray Energy guarantees as of December 31, 2017 was believed to be approximately $35 million. As of December 31, 2017, the leases and subleases with Murray Energy relate to approximately $33 million of equipment. During the year ended December 31, 2017, Murray Energy exercised the purchase option on two of the subleases totaling approximately $41 million. Murray Energy is primarily liable for the acquired retiree medical liabilities under the Coal Industry Retiree Health Benefits Act of 1992, referred to herein as the \"Coal Act\", but CNX remains secondarily liable. At the time of the sale, the Coal Act liabilities Murray Energy acquired were approximately $307 million and it was estimated that the servicing cost for these liabilities would be approximately $25 million for 2018, and would decline thereafter since the beneficiaries consist principally of miners who retired prior to 1994. Any failure by Murray Energy to satisfy these assumed liabilities or perform under these agreements could result in substantial claims against CNX by third-parties. On November 12, 2013, in connection with the transaction with CNX Moody's assigned Murray Energy a family credit rating of B3 (speculative and subject to high credit risk) and its secured second lien notes due 2021 a rating of Caa1 (poor standing and subject to very high credit risk). Since the 2013 transaction, Murray Energy's credit ratings have been downgraded by Moody's. In June 2017, Moody's upgraded Murray Energy to a family credit rating of B3 and the rating on its secured second lien notes to Caa2 with a stable outlook. As part of the separation the Company has agreed to indemnify CNX as it relates to certain of these obligations. If Murray Energy fails to satisfy these assumed liabilities, payment obligations or Coal Act liabilities and we are called upon to perform our indemnity obligation to CNX, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.. Terrorist attacks or cyber incidents could result in information theft, data corruption, operational disruption and/or financial loss.. We have become increasingly dependent upon digital technologies, including information systems, infrastructure and cloud applications and services, to operate our businesses, to process and record financial and operating data, communicate with our employees and business partners, analyze seismic and drilling information, estimate quantities of coal reserves, as well as other activities related to our businesses. Strategic targets, such as energy-related assets, may be at greater risk of future terrorist or cyber attacks than other targets in the United States. Deliberate attacks on our assets, or security breaches in our systems or infrastructure, or the systems or infrastructure of third-parties, or cloud-based applications could lead to corruption or loss of our proprietary data. 40. and potentially sensitive data, delays in production or delivery, difficulty in completing and settling transactions, challenges in maintaining our books and records, environmental damage, communication interruptions, other operational disruptions and third-party liability. Our insurance may not protect us against such occurrences. Consequently, it is possible that any of these occurrences, or a combination of them, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Further, as cyber incidents continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any vulnerability to cyber incidents.. Certain provisions in our multi-year coal sales contracts may provide limited protection during adverse economic conditions, may result in economic penalties to us or permit the customer to terminate the contract.. Price adjustment, \"price reopener\" and other similar provisions in our multi-year coal sales contracts may reduce the protection from coal price volatility traditionally provided by coal supply contracts. Price reopener provisions are present in several of our multi-year coal sales contracts. These price reopener provisions may automatically set a new price based on prevailing market price or, in some instances, require the parties to agree on a new price, sometimes within a specified range of prices. In a limited number of agreements, failure of the parties to agree on a price under a price reopener provision can lead to termination of the contract. Any adjustment or renegotiations leading to a significantly lower contract price could adversely affect our profitability.. Most of our coal sales agreements contain provisions requiring us to deliver coal within certain ranges for specific coal quality characteristics such as heat content, sulfur, ash, moisture, volatile matter, grindability, ash fusion temperature and size consist. Failure to meet these conditions could result in penalties or rejection of the coal at the election of the customer. Our coal sales contracts also typically contain force majeure provisions allowing for the suspension of performance by either party for the duration of specified events. Force majeure events include, but are not limited to, floods, earthquakes, storms, fire, faults in the coal seam or other geologic conditions, other natural catastrophes, wars, terrorist acts, civil disturbances or disobedience, strikes, railroad transportation delays caused by a force majeure event and actions or restraints by court order and governmental authority or arbitration award. Depending on the language of the contract, some contracts may terminate upon continuance of an event of force majeure that extends for a period greater than three to twelve months and some contracts may obligate us to perform notwithstanding what would typically be a force majeure event.. Some of our coal sales agreements contain electric power price-related adjustments which result only in positive monthly adjustments to the contracted base price that we receive for our coal. These adjustments vary month to month with the volatility in the electric power markets and during market downturns yield contract prices below expectations. While management considers the expectations and assumptions regarding the electric power price-related adjustments to be reasonable, they are inherently subject to business, economic, competitive, regulatory, and other risks and uncertainties, most of which are beyond our control.. Our ability to operate our business effectively could be impaired if we fail to attract and retain skilled personnel, or if a meaningful segment of our employees become unionized.. Our ability to operate our business and implement our strategies depends, in part, on our continued ability to attract and retain the skilled personnel necessary to conduct our business. Efficient coal mining using modern techniques and equipment requires skilled employees in multiple disciplines such as electricians, equipment operators, mechanics, engineers and welders, among others. Although we have not historically encountered shortages for these types of skilled employees, competition in the future may increase for such positions, especially as it relates to needs of other industries with respect to these positions, including oil and gas. If we experience shortages of skilled employees in the future, our labor and overall productivity or costs could be materially adversely affected. In the future, we may utilize a greater number of external contractors for portions of our operations. The costs of these contractors have historically been higher than that of our employees. If our labor and contractor prices increase, or if we experience materially increased health and benefit costs with respect to our employees, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. None of our employees who conduct mining operations at the Pennsylvania Mining Complex are currently represented by a labor union or covered under a collective bargaining agreement, although many employers in our industry have employees who belong to a union. It is possible that our employees who conduct mining operations at the Pennsylvania Mining Complex may join or seek recognition to form a labor union, or we may be required to become a labor agreement signatory. If some or all of the employees who conduct mining operations at the Pennsylvania Mining Complex were to become unionized, it could adversely affect productivity, increase labor costs and increase the risk of work stoppages at our mines. If a work stoppage were to occur, it could interfere with operations at the Pennsylvania Mining Complex and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, the mere fact that a portion of our labor force could be unionized may harm our reputation in the eyes of some investors and thereby negatively affect our share price.. 41. The majority of our common units in CONSOL Coal Resources LP are subordinated to other common units and we may not receive distributions from CONSOL Coal Resources LP.. As of December 31, 2017, we held approximately 11.6 million subordinated units and 5.0 million common units (representing, collectively, a 59.6% percent limited partnership interest) in CCR. The balance of our economic interest in CCR is in the form of incentive distribution rights, which represent a right to receive increasing percentages of quarterly distributions in excess of specified amounts. Subordinated units are not entitled to any distribution from CCR unless CCR makes a minimum quarterly distribution of at least $0.5125 per common unit. CCR made minimum distributions per subordinated unit equal to the distribution per common unit for nine of the ten quarters since CCR's IPO. CCR did not meet the requirement for a subordinated unit distribution with respect to fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2016, however, CCR was able to make minimum distributions per subordinated unit equal to the distribution per common unit with respect to the fiscal quarters ended September 30, 2016 through September 30, 2017, and declared minimum distributions per subordinated unit equal to the distribution per common unit with respect to the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2017. We cannot assure you that CCR will continue to be able to make or will make the required minimum quarterly distribution on its common units or that we will receive any future distributions on our subordinated units. Failure by CCR to make distributions to us on our subordinated units could adversely affect our liquidity.. Risks Related to the Separation. We may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve from our separation from CNX.. We believe that, as an independent, publicly traded company, we will continue to, among other things, focus our financial and operational resources on our specific business, growth profile and strategic priorities, design and implement corporate strategies and policies targeted to our operational focus and strategic priorities, guide our processes and infrastructure to focus on our core strengths, implement and maintain a capital structure designed to meet our specific needs and more effectively respond to industry dynamics. However, we may be unable to achieve some or all of these benefits. For example, in order to position ourselves for the separation, we undertook a series of strategic, structural and process realignment and restructuring actions within our operations. These actions may not provide the benefits we currently expect, and could lead to disruption of our operations, loss of, or inability to recruit, key personnel needed to operate and grow our business, weakening of our internal standards, controls or procedures and impairment of our key customer and supplier relationships. If we fail to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve as an independent company, or do not achieve them in the time we expect, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.. We may be unable to complete, on a timely or cost-effective basis, the changes necessary to operate as an independent company.. Although many components of operation as an independent company are well established as a result of our historic existence, there remain a number of business and organizational changes that will be required to complete our transition to a new standalone public company. We expect these changes, which may include staffing adjustments, new hires and reassignment of responsibilities, adoption of new processes, systems and controls, and transitioning services provided by CNX to internally provided services, to continue for the foreseeable future.. CNX has no obligation to provide us with assistance other than the transition services outlined in the transition services agreement, along with such other arrangements as have otherwise been contractually agreed to as outlined in the other agreements between us and CNX. These services do not include every service we have received from CNX in the past, and CNX is only obligated to provide these services for limited periods from the separation date. Accordingly, we will need to provide internally or obtain from unaffiliated third parties the services we currently receive from CNX. These services include information technology, tax, legal, insurance and other administrative activities, the effective and appropriate performance of which is critical to our operations. We may be unable to replace these services in a timely manner or on terms and conditions as favorable as those we receive from CNX. In particular, CNX's information technology networks and systems are complex, and duplicating these networks and systems will be challenging. Because our business previously operated in part as a component of the wider CNX organization, we may be unable to successfully establish the infrastructure or implement the changes necessary to operate independently, or we may incur additional costs that could adversely affect our business. Additionally, while we have developed certain internal controls and procedures, such internal controls and procedures have not yet been fully implemented in connection with our operations as a standalone company. The process of implementing our internal controls could require significant attention from management and we cannot be certain that we will successfully implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Difficulties encountered in their implementation could harm our results of operations or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we fail to obtain the quality of administrative services necessary to operate effectively or incur greater costs in obtaining these services, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow may be materially and adversely affected.. 42. As an independent, publicly traded company, we may not enjoy the same benefits that we did as part of CNX.. Because of our separation from CNX, we may be more susceptible to market fluctuations and other adverse events than we would have been if we were still a part of the current CNX organizational structure. As part of CNX, we were able to enjoy certain benefits from CNX's operating diversity, purchasing power and opportunities to pursue integrated strategies with CNX's other businesses. As an independent, publicly traded company, we are smaller and, as such, do not have similar diversity or integration opportunities and may not have similar purchasing power or access to capital markets. Additionally, as part of CNX we were able to leverage the CNX historical market reputation and performance and brand identity to recruit and retain key personnel to run our business. As an independent, publicly traded company, we do not have the same historical market reputation and performance or brand identity as CNX and it may be more difficult for us to recruit or retain such key personnel. Further, we may be more vulnerable to changing market conditions, such as changes in the coal industry, which could result in increased volatility in our cash flows, working capital and financing requirements and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We incurred significant costs in connection with the separation and distribution, as well as costs associated with operating as an independent, publicly traded company, which may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Prior to the separation, we made a cash payment of $425 million to CNX, funded primarily by third-party indebtedness incurred by us prior to the separation. We incurred approximately $33 million in costs associated with raising the third-party indebtedness. In addition, we are subject to ongoing interest and principal payments during the term of this indebtedness.  Through 2018, we expect to incur and pay transition, financing and other expenses. We also expect to incur certain ongoing costs associated with operating as an independent, publicly traded company and extra costs related to the creation of an IT function and reporting systems. We expect to spend an appropriate amount of capital to relocate and/or augment some of our infrastructure and creating our new IT systems. The ongoing costs of the separation may adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The terms of our separation from CNX and the related agreements and other transactions with CNX were determined by CNX and thus may be less favorable to us than the terms we could have obtained from an unaffiliated third party.. In connection with the separation and distribution, we entered into various agreements and amended certain of the existing agreements in place between CNX and CCR to complete the separation of our business from CNX and govern our ongoing relationships, including, among others, a separation and distribution agreement, a transition services agreement, a tax matters agreement, an employee matters agreement, an intellectual property matters agreement, a master cooperation and safety agreement and other agreements related to our operations.. Under the transition services agreement, CNX will continue to provide various interim corporate support services to us and we will provide various interim support services to CNX. Under the transition services agreement for operations, we will be providing support services for CNX's continuing operations through the term of the existing contracts. The separation and distribution agreement provides for, among other things, our responsibility for liabilities relating to our business and the responsibility of CNX for liabilities unrelated to our business. Among other things, the separation and distribution agreement contains indemnification obligations and ongoing commitments of us and CNX designed to make our company financially responsible for substantially all liabilities that may exist relating to our business activities, whether incurred prior to or after the separation and including potential indemnification obligations for veil-piercing actions brought by or on behalf of the Company. If we are required to indemnify CNX under the circumstances set forth in the separation and distribution agreement or other agreements, we may be subject to substantial liabilities.. If we fail to develop or maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our shares.. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, prevent fraud and operate successfully as a public company. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results would be harmed. We cannot be certain that our efforts to develop and maintain our internal controls will be successful, that we will be able to maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or that we will be able to comply with our obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Any failure to develop or maintain effective internal controls, or difficulties encountered in implementing or improving our internal controls, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our shares.. 43. Some contracts and other assets which were transferred or assigned from CNX or its affiliates to us in connection with the separation and distribution may still require the consent or involvement of a third party. If such consent is not given, we may not be entitled to the benefit of such contracts and other assets in the future, which could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The separation and distribution agreement provides that in connection with our separation from CNX, a number of contracts with third-parties and other assets are to be transferred or assigned from CNX or its affiliates to us. However, the transfer or assignment of certain of these contracts or assets require providing guarantees or the consent of a third party to such a transfer or assignment. Similarly, in some circumstances, the Company and another business unit of CNX are joint beneficiaries of contracts, and the Company will need to enter into a new agreement with the third-party to replicate the existing contract or assign the portion of the existing contract related to the Company's business. It is possible that some parties may use the requirement of a guarantee or consent or the fact that the separation is occurring to seek more favorable contractual terms from the Company or to seek to terminate the contract. If the Company is unable to provide a guarantee or obtain such consents on commercially reasonable and satisfactory terms or if the contracts are terminated, the Company may be unable to obtain some of the benefits, assets and contractual commitments which are intended to be allocated to the Company as part of the Company's separation from CNX. The failure to timely complete the assignment of existing contracts or assets, or the negotiation of new arrangements, or a termination of any of those arrangements, could negatively impact the Company's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, where the Company does not intend to provide a guarantee or obtain consent from third party counterparties based on the Company's belief that no guarantee or consent is required, the third party counterparties may challenge a transfer of assets on the basis that the terms of the applicable commercial arrangements require that a guarantee be provided or obtain the third party counterparty's consent. The Company may incur substantial litigation and other costs in connection with any such claims and, if the Company does not prevail, the Company's ability to use these assets could be adversely impacted.. Our customers, prospective customers, suppliers or other companies with whom we conduct business may need assurances that our financial stability on a stand-alone basis is sufficient to satisfy their requirements for doing or continuing to do business with them.. Some of our customers, prospective customers, suppliers or other companies with whom we conduct business may need assurances that our financial stability on a stand-alone basis is sufficient to satisfy their requirements for doing or continuing to do business with them, and may require us to provide additional credit support, such as letters of credit or other financial guarantees. Any failure of parties to be satisfied with our financial stability could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows.. In connection with the separation we agreed to assume, and indemnify CNX for, certain liabilities. If we are required to make payments pursuant to these indemnities to CNX, we may need to divert cash to meet those obligations and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be negatively impacted. In addition, CNX may indemnify us for certain liabilities. CNX's indemnity may not be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of liabilities for which it will be allocated responsibility, and CNX may not be able to satisfy its indemnification obligations in the future.. Pursuant to the terms of the separation and distribution agreement and certain other agreements entered into as part of the separation, we agreed to assume, and indemnify CNX for, certain liabilities for uncapped amounts, which may include, among other items, associated defense costs, settlement amounts and judgments. Although such obligations are not currently quantifiable, such potential payments pursuant to these indemnities could be significant, and could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, particularly indemnities relating to our actions that could impact the tax-free nature (for U.S. federal income tax purposes) of the contribution, the distribution and certain related transactions, which are set forth in detail in the tax matters agreement and separation and distribution agreement, as well as the risk factor below entitled \"If the distribution, together with certain related transactions, does not qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes, CNX, the Company and the Company's stockholders could be subject to significant tax liabilities and, in certain circumstances, the Company could be required to indemnify CNX for material taxes and other related amounts pursuant to indemnification obligations under the tax matters agreement.\" Third parties could also seek to hold us responsible for liabilities of CNX's business. CNX agreed to indemnify us for such liabilities, but such indemnity from CNX may not be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, and CNX may not be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. Moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from CNX any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses ourselves. Each of these risks could negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 44. If the distribution, together with certain related transactions, does not continue to qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes for a period of two years, CNX, the Company and the Company's stockholders could be subject to significant tax liabilities and, in certain circumstances, the Company could be required to indemnify CNX for material taxes and other related amounts pursuant to indemnification obligations under the tax matters agreement.. It was a condition to the distribution that CNX receive a private letter ruling from the IRS, which was received on October 16, 2017, and one or more opinions of its tax advisors, in each case satisfactory to the CNX Board of Directors, regarding certain U.S. federal income tax matters relating to the separation and the distribution, including, the opinion of Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz that the separation and distribution will be a transaction described in Section 355(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"). The IRS private letter ruling and the opinion(s) of tax advisors were based upon and rely on, among other things, various facts and assumptions, as well as certain representations, statements and undertakings of CNX and the Company, including those relating to the past and future conduct of CNX and the Company. If any of these representations, statements or undertakings is, or becomes, inaccurate or incomplete, or if CNX or the Company breaches any of its representations or covenants contained in any of the separation-related agreements and documents or in any documents relating to the IRS private letter ruling and/or the opinion(s) of tax advisors, the IRS private letter ruling and/or opinion(s) of tax advisors may be invalid and the conclusions reached therein could be jeopardized.. Notwithstanding receipt of the IRS private letter ruling and the opinion(s) of tax advisors, the IRS could determine that the distribution and/or certain related transactions should be treated as taxable transactions for U.S. federal income tax purposes if it determines that any of the representations, assumptions or undertakings upon which the IRS private letter ruling or the opinion(s) of tax advisors were based are false or have been violated. In addition, neither the IRS private letter ruling nor the opinion(s) of tax advisors addressed all of the issues that are relevant to determining whether the distribution, together with certain related transactions, qualifies as a transaction that is generally tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and the opinion(s) of tax advisors represent the judgment of such tax advisors and are not binding on the IRS or any court, and the IRS or a court may disagree with the conclusions in the opinion(s) of tax advisors. Accordingly, notwithstanding receipt by CNX of the IRS private letter ruling and the opinion(s) of tax advisors, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not assert that the distribution and/or certain related transactions do not qualify for tax-free treatment for U.S. federal income tax purposes or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. In the event the IRS were to prevail with such challenge, CNX, the Company and the Company's stockholders could be subject to significant U.S. federal income tax liability.. If the distribution, together with related transactions, fails to qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes, under Section 355 of the Code, in general, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, CNX would recognize taxable gain as if it had sold the Company common stock in a taxable sale for its fair market value, unless CNX and the Company jointly make an election under Section 336(e) of the Code with respect to the distribution, in which case, in general, (i) the CNX group would recognize taxable gain as if the Company had sold all of its assets in a taxable sale in exchange for an amount equal to the fair market value of the Company common stock and the assumption of all the Company's liabilities and (ii) the Company would obtain a related step up in the basis of its assets and, if the distribution fails to qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Section 355 of the Code, in general, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, CNX stockholders who received Company shares in the distribution would be subject to tax as if they had received a taxable distribution equal to the fair market value of such shares.. Under the tax matters agreement that CNX entered into with the Company, the Company may be required to indemnify CNX against any additional taxes and related amounts resulting from (i) an acquisition of all or a portion of the equity securities or assets of the Company, whether by merger or otherwise (and regardless of whether the Company participated in or otherwise facilitated the acquisition), (ii) other actions or failures to act by the Company or (iii) any of the Company's representations, covenants or undertakings contained in any of the separation-related agreements and documents or in any documents relating to the IRS private letter ruling and/or the opinion(s) of tax advisors being incorrect or violated. Any such indemnity obligations could be material.. We may not be able to engage in desirable strategic or capital-raising transactions as a result of the separation.. Under current law, a spin-off can be rendered taxable as a result of certain post-spin-off acquisitions of shares or assets of the spun-off corporation. For example, a spin-off may result in taxable gain to the parent corporation under Section 355(e) of the Code if the spin-off were later deemed to be part of a plan (or series of related transactions) pursuant to which one or more persons acquire, directly or indirectly, shares representing a 50% or greater interest (by vote or value) in the spun-off corporation. To preserve the tax-free treatment of the separation and the distribution for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and in addition to the Company's indemnity obligation described above, the tax matters agreement restricts the Company, for the two-year period following the separation, except in specific circumstances, from:. 45. • entering into any transaction pursuant to which all or a portion of the shares of the Company common stock would be acquired, whether by merger or otherwise;. • issuing equity securities beyond certain thresholds;. • repurchasing shares of Company capital stock other than in certain open-market transactions; and. • ceasing to actively conduct certain of its businesses.. The tax matters agreement also prohibits the Company from taking or failing to take any other action that would prevent the distribution and certain related transactions from qualifying as a transaction that is generally tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Section 355 of the Code. These restrictions may limit our ability to pursue certain strategic transactions, equity issuances or repurchases or other transactions that we may believe to be in the best interests of our stockholders or that might increase the value of our business.. Certain of our directors and officers may have actual or potential conflicts of interest because of their equity ownership in CNX.. Although no Company directors or officers serve at both companies, certain of our directors and executive officers may own shares of CNX common stock, and the individual holdings may be significant for some of these individuals compared to their total assets. This ownership in both companies may create, or may create the appearance of, conflicts of interest when these directors and officers are faced with decisions that could have different implications for CNX and us. For example, potential conflicts of interest could arise in connection with the resolution of any dispute that may arise between CNX and us regarding the terms of the agreements governing the internal reorganization, the distribution and the relationship thereafter between the companies, including with respect to the indemnification of certain matters.. As a public company, we must publish more detailed information about our business, operations and financial performance which will be available for our customers, competitors and other third parties.. Historically, information about our business and operations was presented as part of the broader CNX corporate organization. As an independent, publicly traded company, we must publicly provide more detailed information about our business and operations, including financial information, as a stand-alone company. This information will be accessible to our customers, suppliers and competitors, each of which may factor the new information into their commercial dealings with us or in the markets in which we operate. The use of such information by third parties in the marketplace could have an adverse effect on us and our results of operations, including our relative level of profitability.. The separation and distribution and related internal reorganization transactions may expose the Company to potential liabilities arising out of state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws and legal dividend requirements.. If the Company files for bankruptcy or is otherwise determined or deemed to be insolvent under federal bankruptcy laws, a court could deem the separation and distribution or certain internal reorganization transactions undertaken by CNX in connection with the separation to be a fraudulent conveyance or transfer. Fraudulent conveyances or transfers are defined to include transfers made or obligations incurred with the actual intent to hinder, delay or defraud current or future creditors or transfers made or obligations incurred for less than reasonably equivalent value when the debtor was insolvent, or that rendered the debtor insolvent, inadequately capitalized or unable to pay its debts as they become due. A court could void the transactions or impose substantial liabilities upon the Company, which could adversely affect the Company's financial condition and its results of operations. Among other things, the court could require Company stockholders to return to CNX some or all of the shares of Company common stock issued in the separation and distribution, or require the Company to fund liabilities of other companies involved in the reorganization transactions for the benefit of creditors.. The distribution of Company common stock is also subject to review under state corporate distribution statutes. Under the Delaware General Corporation Law (the \"DGCL\"), a corporation may only pay dividends to its stockholders either (i) out of its surplus (net assets minus capital) or (ii) if there is no such surplus, out of its net profits for the fiscal year in which the dividend is declared and/or the preceding fiscal year. Although CNX made the distribution of Company common stock entirely out of surplus, the Company cannot assure you that a court will not later determine that some or all of the distribution to CNX stockholders was unlawful.. 46. Risks Related to Our Common Stock and the Securities Market. Our stock price may fluctuate significantly.. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly due to a number of factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including:. • our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in our industry;. • the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock after the distribution;. • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results;. • changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates or our earnings guidance;. • the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies;. • overall market fluctuations and domestic and worldwide economic conditions; and. • other factors described in these \"Risk Factors\" and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. As a result of these factors, holders of our common stock may not be able to resell their shares at or above the initial market price or may not be able to resell them at all. In addition, price volatility with our common stock may be greater if trading volume is low.. If securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our Company, or issue unfavorable commentary about us or downgrade our shares, the price of our shares could decline.. The trading market for our shares depends in part on the research and reports that third-party securities analysts publish about our Company and our industry. Because our ordinary shares were initially distributed to the public through the spin-off, there was not a marketing effort relating to the initial distribution of our shares of the type that would typically be part of an initial public offering of shares. We may be unable or slow to attract research coverage and if one or more analysts cease coverage of our Company, we could lose visibility in the market. In addition, one or more of these analysts could use estimation or valuation methods that we do not agree with, downgrade our shares or issue other negative commentary about our company or our industry. As a result of one or more of these factors, the trading price of our shares could decline.. A future sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may cause our stock price to decline.. Any sales of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock in the public market or the perception that such sales might occur, in connection with the distribution or otherwise, may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. As a result of the distribution, we have an aggregate of approximately 28.0 million shares of our common stock issued and outstanding. These shares are freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the \"Securities Act\"), unless the shares are owned by one of our \"affiliates,\" as that term is defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act.. We cannot guarantee the timing, amount, or payment of dividends on our common stock in the future.. The payment and amount of any future dividend will be subject to the sole discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon many factors, including our financial condition and prospects, our capital requirements and access to capital markets, covenants associated with certain of our debt obligations, legal requirements and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant, and there can be no assurance that we will pay a dividend in the future.. There may be substantial changes in the Company's stockholder base.. Many investors holding CNX common stock at the time of the separation and distribution may have held that stock because of a decision to invest in a company with CNX's profile. The shares of Company common stock held by those investors as a result of the separation and distribution represent an investment in a company with a different profile. This may not be aligned with a holder's investment strategy and may cause the holder to sell the shares. As a result, the Company's stock price may decline or experience volatility as its stockholder base changes.. Your percentage of ownership in us may be diluted in the future.. Your percentage ownership in us may be diluted because of equity issuances for acquisitions, capital market transactions or otherwise, including, without limitation, equity awards that we may be granting to our directors, officers and employees. Such issuances may have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. 47. It is anticipated that the compensation committee of the board of directors of the Company will grant additional equity awards to Company employees and directors, from time to time, under the Company's compensation and employee benefit plans. These additional awards will have a dilutive effect on the Company's earnings per share, which could adversely affect the market price of the Company's common stock.. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our stockholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such designation, powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, including preferences over our common stock with respect to dividends and distributions, as our board of directors generally may determine. The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of our common stock. For example, we could grant the holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of our directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or to veto specified transactions. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we could assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of our common stock.. There can be no assurance that we will continue to repurchase shares of our common stock or outstanding debt securities.. In 2017, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $50 million of our outstanding notes and other debt securities and shares of our common stock continuing through June 30, 2019.  Our share repurchase program does not obligate us to repurchase any specific number of debt securities or common shares and may be suspended from time to time or terminated at any time prior to its expiration.  There can be no assurance that we will repurchase shares or debt securities under the repurchase program in the future in any particular amounts or at all.  A reduction in, or elimination of, share repurchases could have a negative effect on our share price.. Certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, and of Delaware law, may prevent or delay an acquisition of us, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock.. The Company's amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws and Delaware law contain provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices or bids unacceptably expensive to the bidder and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with the Company's board of directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions include, among others:. • the inability of our stockholders to act by written consent unless such written consent is unanimous;. • the inability of our stockholders to call special meetings;. • rules regarding how stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at stockholder meetings;. • the right of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval;. • the fact that our board of directors will initially be divided into three classes; and. • the ability of our directors, and not stockholders, to fill vacancies (including those resulting from an enlargement of our board of directors) on our board of directors.. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the DGCL. Section 203 provides that, subject to limited exceptions, persons that (without prior board approval) acquire, or are affiliated with a person that acquires, more than 15% of the outstanding voting stock of a Delaware corporation shall not engage in any business combination with that corporation, including by merger, consolidation or acquisitions of additional shares, for a three-year period following the date on which that person or its affiliate becomes the holder of more than 15% of the corporation's outstanding voting stock.. We believe these provisions will protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors and by providing our board of directors with more time to assess any acquisition proposal. These provisions are not intended to make us immune from takeovers. However, these provisions could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control or the removal of existing management, of deterring potential acquirers from making an offer to our stockholders and of limiting any opportunity to realize premiums over prevailing market prices for our common stock in connection therewith. This could be the case notwithstanding that a majority of our stockholders might benefit from such a change in control or offer.. In addition, an acquisition or further issuance of the Company's stock could trigger the application of Section 355(e) of the Code, causing the distribution to be taxable to CNX. Under the tax matters agreement, the Company would be required to indemnify CNX for the resulting tax, and this indemnity obligation might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control that could be considered favorable.. 48. Our certificate of incorporation designates the State Courts of the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain an alternative judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, employees or agents.. Our certificate of incorporation provides that unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, a state court sitting in the State of Delaware (or, if no state court located within the State of Delaware has jurisdiction, the federal court for the District of Delaware) will, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, be the sole and exclusive forum for:. • any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf;. • any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers, employees or agents to us or our stockholders;. • any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the DGCL, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or our bylaws;. • any action asserting a claim that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine, in each such case subject to such Court of Chancery having personal jurisdiction over the indispensable parties named as defendants therein; or. • any action asserting an internal corporate claim as defined in Section 115 of the DGCL.. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise holding any interest in shares of our capital stock will be deemed to have notice of, and consented to, the provisions of our certificate of incorporation described in the preceding sentence. This choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers, employees or agents, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and such persons. Alternatively, if a court were to find these provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions."
