[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Limited partner interests are inherently different from the capital stock of a corporation, although many of the business risks to which we are subject are similar to those that would be faced by a corporation engaged in a similar business. You should carefully consider the following risk factors together with all of the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the matters addressed under \"Forward-Looking Statements,\" in evaluating an investment in our common units.. If any of the following risks were to occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make cash distributions could be materially adversely affected. In that case, we may not be able to pay the minimum quarterly distribution on our common units, the trading price of our common units could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. In addition, the current economic and political environment intensifies many of these risks.. Risks Related to Our Business. Our two largest customers, CNX and HG Energy, currently account for substantially all of our revenue. If either or both of them change their business strategies, alter their current drilling and development plans on our dedicated acreage, release portions of their dedicated acreage, as permitted by the terms of the gas gathering agreement, or otherwise significantly reduce the volumes of natural gas and condensate transported through our gathering systems, our revenue would decline and our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to our unitholders would be materially and adversely affected.. As we currently derive substantially all of our revenue from our gathering agreements with CNX and HG Energy, any event, whether in our dedicated acreage or elsewhere, that materially and adversely affects either or both of CNX's or HG Energy's business strategies with respect to drilling on and development of our dedicated acreage or their financial condition, results of operations or cash flows may adversely affect our ability to sustain or increase cash distributions to our unitholders. Accordingly, we are indirectly subject to the operational and business risks of CNX and HG Energy, the most significant of which include the following:. • a reduction in or slowing of CNX's or HG Energy's drilling and development plans on our dedicated acreage;. • a reduction in, or curtailment of, production from existing wells on our dedicated acreage;. • the extreme volatility of natural gas, NGL and crude oil prices, which could have a negative effect on CNX's or HG Energy's drilling and development plans on, or levels of existing production from, our dedicated acreage or their ability to finance its operations and drilling and exploration costs on our dedicated acreage;. • the availability of capital on an economic basis to fund exploration and development activities of CNX and HG Energy;. • drilling and operating risks, including potential environmental liabilities, associated with CNX's and HG Energy's operations on our dedicated acreage;. • downstream processing and transportation capacity constraints and interruptions, including the failure of CNX or HG Energy to have sufficient contracted processing or transportation capacity; and. • adverse effects of increased or changed governmental and environmental regulation.. In addition, we are indirectly subject to the business risks of CNX and HG Energy generally and other factors, including, among others:. • their financial condition, credit ratings, leverage, market reputation, liquidity and cash flows;. • their ability to maintain or replace reserves;. • adverse effects of governmental and environmental regulation on their upstream operations; and. • losses from pending or future litigation.. Further, we have no control over CNX's or HG Energy's business decisions and operations, and they are under no obligation to adopt business strategies that are favorable to us. We are subject to the risk of non-payment or non-performance by our customers, including with respect to our gathering agreements, which do not contain minimum volume commitments. In addition, our gas gathering agreements permit HG Energy and, in the event that CNX ceases to control our general partner, CNX to release portions of acreage from dedication under the respective agreements, subject to the terms of the respective gathering agreements. We cannot predict the extent to which our customers' businesses will be impacted if conditions in the energy industry deteriorate nor can we estimate the impact such conditions will have on their ability to execute their drilling and development plans on our dedicated acreage or to perform under our gathering agreements.. Global energy commodity prices may fluctuate widely in response to market uncertainty and relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil, natural gas and NGLs. Historically, oil, natural gas and NGL prices have been volatile. Lower commodity prices reduce CNX's cash flows and may affect their borrowing ability. Our customers may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a decline in their reserves as existing reserves are. 21. Table of Contents. depleted. Lower commodity prices may also reduce the amount of natural gas, NGLs and oil that our customers can produce economically. If commodity prices further decrease, a significant portion of their exploitation, development and exploration projects on our dedicated acreage could become uneconomic. This may result in our customers having to make significant downward adjustments to their estimated proved reserves on our dedicated acreage. As a result, a substantial or extended decline in commodity prices may materially and adversely affect both CNX's and HG Energy's future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or ability to finance planned capital expenditures.. Any material non-payment or non-performance by either CNX or HG Energy under our gathering agreements, which have initial terms ending in 2037 and 2034, respectively, would have a significant adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and could therefore materially adversely affect our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders at the expected rate or at all. There is no guarantee that we will be able to renew or replace those gathering agreements on equal or better terms upon their expiration. Our ability to renew or replace our gathering agreements with CNX or HG Energy following their expiration at rates sufficient to maintain our current revenues and cash flows could be adversely affected by activities beyond our control, including the activities of our customers and our competitors.. Additionally, following the closing of a transaction (the \"Spin-Off\") in December 2017 in which CNX's coal business was contributed to CONSOL Energy Inc. (\"CONSOL\"), certain of CNX's key personnel became employees of CONSOL. As a result, CNX is a smaller and less diversified company with more limited financial resources and operational capabilities, and CNX may be unable or unwilling to provide us with certain financial and operational support that it was able or willing to provide to us prior to the Spin-Off. CNX's status as a smaller company and loss of these capabilities and key personnel could have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. Under our gathering agreements, our customers may transfer their leasehold, working and mineral fee interests in their dedicated acreage.. Our customers may transfer their leasehold, working and mineral fee interests in, or grant an overriding royalty interest, production payment, net profits interest or other similar interest in their dedicated acreage. Each of our customers continually evaluates how to enhance its upstream portfolio, including its holdings in the Marcellus Shale and could sell, exchange, farm-out or otherwise dispose of all of, or an undivided interest in, its Marcellus Shale holdings as part of these enhancement efforts. If either of our customers transfers all or an undivided portion of its interests in the future, its economic interest in developing the dedicated acreage could decrease, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make cash distributions.. We cannot currently determine what impact, if any, Noble Energy's divestiture of its upstream assets in the Marcellus Shale will have on the Partnership.. In connection with the Noble Energy Asset Sale, HG Energy succeeded to the terms of our gathering agreement with Noble Energy. To the extent they produce on acreage that is dedicated to the Partnership, we will continue to gather such production at the fees that are outlined in our gathering agreement with HG Energy.  HG Energy is under no obligation to pursue business strategies that are favorable to us, and it may alter its drilling and development plan at any time. We are subject to fluctuations in HG Energy's creditworthiness and overall financial condition, which following consummation of the transaction, may subject us to the risk of non-payment or non-performance by HG Energy under our gathering agreement, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make cash distributions. In addition, while HG Energy is subject to many similar business and operational risks as those faced by Noble Energy, HG Energy may be more adversely impacted by those risks than Noble Energy, which may in turn have a greater adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make cash distributions.. We may not generate sufficient distributable cash flow to make the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution to our unitholders.. In order to make the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution of $0.2125 per unit per quarter, or $0.85 per unit on an annualized basis, we must generate distributable cash flow of approximately $13.8 million per quarter, or approximately $55.2 million per year, based on the number of common units and the general partner interest outstanding as of December 31, 2017. We may not generate sufficient distributable cash flow to make the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution to our unitholders.. The amount of cash we can distribute on our units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things:. • the volume of natural gas we gather, compress and dehydrate, the volume of condensate we gather and treat and the fees we are paid for performing such services;. 22. Table of Contents. • the effects of changes in market prices of natural gas, NGLs and crude oil on our customers' drilling and development plans on our dedicated acreage and the volumes of natural gas and condensate that are produced on our dedicated acreage;. • our customers' ability to fund their drilling and development plans on our dedicated acreage;. • capital expenditures necessary for us to maintain and build out our midstream systems to gather natural gas and condensate from our customers' new well completions on our dedicated acreage;. • the levels of our operating expenses, maintenance expenses and general and administrative expenses;. • regulatory action affecting: (i) the supply of, or demand for, natural gas and condensate, (ii) the rates we can charge for our midstream services, (iii) the terms upon which we are able to contract to provide our midstream services, (iv) our existing gathering and other commercial agreements or (v) our operating costs or our operating flexibility;. • the rates we charge third parties, if any, for our midstream services;. • prevailing economic conditions; and. • favorable or adverse weather conditions.. In addition, the actual amount of distributable cash flow that we generate will also depend on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including:. • the level and timing of our capital expenditures;. • our debt service requirements and other liabilities;. • our ability to borrow under our debt agreements to fund our capital expenditures and operating expenditures and to pay distributions;. • fluctuations in our working capital needs;. • restrictions on distributions contained in any of our debt agreements;. • the cost of acquisitions, if any;. • the fees and expenses of our general partner and its affiliates (including CNX) that we are required to reimburse;. • the amount of cash reserves established by our general partner; and. • other business risks affecting our cash levels.. Because of the natural decline in production from existing wells, our success, in part, depends on our ability to maintain or increase natural gas and condensate throughput volumes on our midstream systems, which depends on the level of development and completion activity on acreage dedicated to us.. The level of natural gas and condensate volumes handled by our midstream systems depends on the level of production from natural gas wells dedicated to our midstream systems, which may be less than expected and which will naturally decline over time. In order to maintain or increase throughput levels on our midstream systems, we must obtain production from new wells completed by CNX and any third party customers on acreage dedicated to our midstream systems or execute agreements with other third parties in our areas of operation.. We have no control over CNX's or other producers' levels of development and completion activity in our areas of operation, the amount of reserves associated with wells connected to our systems or the rate at which production from a well declines. In addition, we have no control over CNX's or other producers or their exploration and development decisions, which may be affected by, among other things:. • prevailing and projected natural gas, NGL and crude oil prices, which are extremely volatile;. • demand for natural gas, NGLs and crude oil;. • changes in the strategic importance our customers assign to development in the Marcellus and Utica Shale areas as opposed to other plays they may consider core to their businesses, which could adversely affect the financial and operational resources our customers are willing to devote to development in our areas of operations;. • the availability and cost of capital;. • levels of reserves;. • geologic considerations;. • increased levels of taxation related to the exploration and production of natural gas in our areas of operation;. • environmental or other governmental regulations, including the availability of drilling permits and the regulation of hydraulic fracturing; and. • the costs of producing natural gas and the availability and costs of drilling rigs and other equipment and services.. Due to these and other factors, even if reserves are known to exist in areas served by our midstream systems, CNX or other producers may choose not to develop those reserves. If CNX or other producers choose not to develop their reserves, or they choose to slow their development rate, in our areas of operation, they will have no need to dedicate such additional acreage and associated reserves to our midstream systems and the pace of such additional dedications will be below anticipated levels. In addition, certain of our gas gathering agreements permit our customers to release portions of their acreage from. 23. Table of Contents. dedication, subject to the terms of the agreements. Our inability to obtain additional dedications of acreage resulting from reductions in development activity, coupled with the natural decline in production from, or releases of, our current dedicated acreage, would result in our inability to maintain the then current levels of throughput on our midstream systems, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make cash distributions.. Our gathering agreements do not include minimum volume commitments.. Although we have obtained acreage dedications from CNX Gas and HG Energy and minimum well commitments from CNX Gas in certain development areas, our gathering agreements do not specifically include minimum volume commitments that would protect us against volumetric risks associated with lower-than-forecast volumes flowing through our gathering systems.  Our customers are not contractually obligated to us to develop their properties in the areas covered by our acreage dedications, and they may determine that it is more attractive to direct their capital spending and resources to other areas.  A decrease in capital spending and development of reserves by our customers in the areas covered by our acreage dedications could result in reduced volumes serviced by us and a material decline in our revenues and cash flows.  Any decrease in the current levels of throughput on our gathering systems could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make cash distributions.. Certain of our dedicated acreage is either not held by production by our customers or has not yet been earned by them.. Certain of our dedicated acreage is either not held by production or has yet to be earned by our customers under farmout agreements to which they are parties. As of December 31, 2017, approximately one-fifth of our dedicated acreage was not held by production or was yet to be earned by our customers. With respect to dedicated acreage that is not held by production, if the applicable shipper does not timely meet the drilling obligations specified in the underlying leases, then the leases will terminate and will no longer be subject to our dedication. With respect to the dedicated acreage that is yet to be earned under certain farmout agreements, if the applicable customer does not meet its drilling obligations to earn the acreage subject to the farmout agreement prior to the termination of the farmout agreement, then it will have no further rights to earn any acreage that it has not previously earned under the farmout agreement. Also, if the counterparty to a farmout agreement becomes insolvent or bankrupt, then the farmout agreement may be deemed an executory contract that may be discharged in a bankruptcy proceeding. If our customers do not timely meet the drilling obligations specified in the leases not held by production or do not earn all of the acreage subject to the farmout agreements prior to the termination of the farmout agreements or if such customer's farmout agreements are discharged, the affected acreage will no longer be dedicated to us, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make cash distributions.. We may not be able to attract dedications of third-party volumes, in part because our industry is highly competitive, which could limit our ability to grow and continue our dependence on our existing customers.. Part of our long-term growth strategy includes diversifying our customer base by identifying opportunities to offer services to third parties in our areas of operation. Over the near term, substantially all of our revenues will be earned from CNX and HG Energy relating to production they own or control on our dedicated acreage. Our ability to increase throughput on our midstream systems and any related revenue from third parties is subject to numerous factors beyond our control, including competition from third parties and the extent to which we have available capacity when requested by third parties. Any lack of available capacity on our systems for third-party volumes will detrimentally affect our ability to compete effectively with third-party systems for natural gas and condensate produced from reserves associated with acreage other than our then current dedicated acreage in our area of operation. In addition, some of our competitors for third-party volumes have greater financial resources and access to larger supplies of natural gas than those available to us, which could allow those competitors to price their services more aggressively than we do.. Our efforts to attract new third parties as customers may be adversely affected by (i) our relationship with our existing customers and the fact that a substantial majority of the capacity of our midstream systems will be necessary to service their production on our dedicated acreage and that, under our gathering agreements with our existing customers, such customers will receive priority of service for the provision of our midstream services over third parties and (ii) our desire to provide services pursuant to fee-based agreements. As a result, we may not have the capacity to provide services to third parties and/or potential third-party customers may prefer to obtain services pursuant to other forms of contractual arrangements under which we would be required to assume direct commodity exposure. In addition, potential third-party customers who are significant producers of natural gas and condensate may develop their own midstream systems in lieu of using our systems. All of these competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. 24. Table of Contents. We may not be able to make attractive offers to CNX or HG Energy on our ROFO acreage.. Each of CNX and HG Energy is required to allow us to make a first offer to provide midstream services on existing upstream acreage that is not currently dedicated to us or a third party, which, as of December 31, 2017, covered, in the aggregate, approximately 198,000 net acres, and any future acreage that is acquired by CNX or HG Energy, as applicable, in the ROFO area, which includes acreage outside our acreage dedication that may be serviced by our midstream systems. Neither customer is under any obligation to accept an offer we make on this acreage, even if we submit the most attractive bid it receives. In addition, another midstream service provider may be able to make a more attractive offer, whether because they have existing infrastructure on or around this acreage or otherwise. Any rejection by CNX or HG Energy, as applicable, of any offer on this acreage could adversely affect our organic growth strategy or our ability to maintain or increase our cash distribution level.. Our only assets are controlling ownership interests in our operating subsidiaries. Because our interests in our operating subsidiaries represent our only cash-generating assets, our cash flow will depend entirely on the performance of our operating subsidiaries and their ability to distribute cash to us.. We have a holding company structure, meaning the sole source of our earnings and cash flow consists exclusively of the earnings of and cash distributions from our operating subsidiaries. Therefore, our ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders will be completely dependent upon the performance of our operating subsidiaries and their ability to distribute funds to us. We are the sole member of the general partner of each of our operating subsidiaries, and we control and manage our operating subsidiaries through our ownership of our operating subsidiaries' respective general partners.. The limited partnership agreement governing each operating company requires that the general partner of such operating company cause such operating company to distribute all of its available cash each quarter, less the amounts of cash reserves that such general partner determines are necessary or appropriate in its reasonable discretion to provide for the proper conduct of such operating company's business.. The amount of cash each operating company generates from its operations will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on events and circumstances and the actual amount of cash each operating company will have available for distribution to its partners, including us, also will depend on certain factors. For a description of the events, circumstances and factors that may affect the cash distributions from our operating subsidiaries please read \"Risk Factors - We may not generate sufficient distributable cash flow to support the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution to our unitholders.\". Our gathering agreements with our customers provide for the release of dedicated acreage in certain situations.. Our gathering agreements with our customers provide that if we fail to timely complete the construction of the facilities necessary to provide midstream services to their dedicated acreage or have an uncured default of any of our material obligations that has caused an interruption in our services to either party for more than 90 days, the affected acreage will be permanently released from our dedication. Also, under the terms of its gathering agreement with us, if CNX Gas drills a well or anticipates drilling a well that is located more than a certain distance from an area served by our current gathering system and a third-party gatherer offers a lower cost of service, and it elects to utilize the third-party gatherer, then the acreage associated with such well will be permanently released from our dedication. Any permanent releases of our customers' acreage from our dedication could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make cash distributions.. Our gathering agreements with CNX Gas and HG Energy also provide that in certain situations, such as an uncured default of any of our material obligations that has caused an interruption in our services for more than 45 days but less than 90 days, our dedicated acreage can be temporarily released from our dedication. Any temporary releases of acreage from our dedication could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make cash distributions.. We may be responsible for mine subsidence costs in the future.. Portions of our gathering systems pass over coal mines. Activities related to the use and expansion of our gathering systems have historically, and may continue to, be affected by mine subsidence. Under the terms of the omnibus agreement between us, our general partner, CNX Gathering, CNX and Noble Energy, CNX Gathering has agreed to indemnify us for a period of four years following our IPO against costs or losses arising out of mine subsidence. However, after the four-year period, we may be liable for any costs or losses arising out of or attributable to mine subsidence. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we incurred mine subsidence costs related to the expansion of our systems of approximately $0.8 million that were reimbursed to us by CNX Gathering. We cannot predict the amount of any costs or losses associated with mine subsidence that may impact our assets after the term of the indemnification provided in the omnibus agreement. Mine subsidence costs and losses that we incur and for which we cannot seek indemnification could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make cash distributions.. 25. Table of Contents. Our midstream systems are exclusively located in the Appalachian Basin, making us vulnerable to risks associated with operating in a single geographic area.. We currently rely exclusively on revenues generated from our midstream systems that are located in the Appalachian Basin. As a result of this concentration, we will be disproportionately exposed to the impact of regional supply and demand factors, delays or interruptions of production from wells in this area caused by governmental regulation, market limitations, water shortages or other drought related conditions or interruption of the processing or transportation of natural gas, NGLs or condensate. If any of these factors were to impact the Appalachian Basin more than other producing regions, our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions will be adversely affected relative to other midstream companies that have a more geographically diversified asset portfolio.. We may be unable to grow by acquiring the noncontrolling interests in, or assets of, our operating subsidiaries owned by CNX Gathering, which could limit our ability to increase our distributable cash flow.. Part of our strategy for growing our business and increasing distributions to our unitholders is dependent upon our ability to make acquisitions that increase our distributable cash flow. Part of the acquisition component of our growth strategy is based upon our expectation of future divestitures by CNX Gathering to us of portions of its remaining, noncontrolling interests in our operating subsidiaries or divestitures by CNX Gathering to our wholly owned operating subsidiaries of assets owned by our non-wholly owned operating subsidiaries. We have only a right of first offer pursuant to our omnibus agreement to purchase the noncontrolling interests in our operating subsidiaries retained by CNX Gathering. CNX Gathering is under no obligation to offer to sell us additional assets (including our right of first offer assets), unless and until it otherwise intends to dispose of such assets, and we are under no obligation to buy any additional assets from CNX Gathering. We may never purchase all or a portion of the noncontrolling interests in our operating subsidiaries or the assets owned by our non-wholly owned operating subsidiaries for several reasons, including the following:. • CNX Gathering may choose not to sell these noncontrolling interests or assets;. • we may not make offers for these noncontrolling interests or assets;. • we and CNX Gathering may be unable to agree to terms acceptable to both parties;. • we may be unable to obtain financing to purchase these noncontrolling interests or assets on acceptable terms or at all; or. • we may be prohibited by the terms of our debt agreements (including our credit facility) or other contracts from purchasing some or all of these noncontrolling interests or assets, and CNX Gathering may be prohibited by the terms of its debt agreements or other contracts from selling some or all of such noncontrolling interests or assets. If we or CNX Gathering must seek waivers of such provisions or refinance debt governed by such provisions in order to consummate a sale of these noncontrolling interests or assets, we or CNX Gathering may be unable to do so in a timely manner or at all.. We do not know when or if all or any portion of such noncontrolling interests will be offered to us for purchase or whether we will have an opportunity to acquire assets from our non-wholly owned operating subsidiaries on behalf of our wholly owned operating subsidiaries, and we can provide no assurance that we will be able to successfully consummate any future acquisition of all or any portion of such noncontrolling interests or assets. Furthermore, if CNX Gathering reduces its ownership interest in us, it may be less willing to sell to us such remaining noncontrolling interests or assets. In addition, except for our rights of first offer, there are no restrictions on CNX Gathering's ability to transfer its noncontrolling interests in our operating subsidiaries or assets of such entities to a third party. If we do not acquire all or a significant portion of the noncontrolling interests in our operating subsidiaries held by CNX Gathering or if we fail to acquire on behalf of our wholly owned subsidiaries the assets of our non-wholly owned subsidiaries that are offered to us on favorable terms, our ability to grow our business and increase our cash distributions to our unitholders may be significantly limited.. If third-party pipelines or other midstream facilities interconnected to our gathering systems become partially or fully unavailable, our operating margin, cash flow and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders could be adversely affected.. Our assets connect to other pipelines or facilities owned and operated by unaffiliated third parties. The continuing operation of third-party pipelines, processing and fractionation plants, compressor stations and other midstream facilities is not within our control. These third-party pipelines, processing and fractionation plants, compressor stations and other midstream facilities may become unavailable because of testing, turnarounds, line repair, maintenance, changes to operating conditions, delivery or receipt parameters, unavailability of firm transportation, lack of operating capacity, force majeure events, regulatory requirements and curtailments of receipt or deliveries due to insufficient capacity or because of damage from severe weather conditions or other operational issues. If any such increase in costs occurs or if any of these pipelines or other midstream facilities becomes unable to receive or transport natural gas, our operating margin, cash flow and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders could be adversely affected.. 26. Table of Contents. To maintain and grow our business, we will be required to make substantial capital expenditures. If we are unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, our ability to make cash distributions may be diminished or our financial leverage could increase.. In order to maintain and grow our business, we will need to make substantial capital expenditures to fund growth capital expenditures associated with our Anchor Systems, as well as to fund our share of such expenditures associated with our 5% controlling interests in each of the Growth Systems and Additional Systems, or to purchase or construct new midstream systems. If we do not make sufficient or effective capital expenditures, we will be unable to maintain and grow our business and, as a result, we may be unable to maintain or raise the level of our future cash distributions over the long term. In addition, under the terms of our gas gathering agreements, we may be required to expand our midstream systems or construct additional midstream assets to services the production delivered by our customers.  If we are unable to expand these systems or develop these assets, we may be in breach of our gas gathering agreements, which would negatively impact our business and financial condition.  To fund our capital expenditures, we will be required to use cash from our operations, incur debt or sell additional common units or other equity securities. Using cash from our operations will reduce cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Our ability to obtain bank financing or our ability to access the capital markets for future equity or debt offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing or offering and the covenants in our existing debt agreements, as well as by general economic conditions, contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Also, due to our relationship with CNX, our ability to access the capital markets, or the pricing or other terms of any capital markets transactions, may be adversely affected by any impairment to the financial condition of CNX or adverse changes in CNX's credit ratings. Any material limitation on our ability to access capital as a result of such adverse changes to CNX could limit our ability to obtain future financing under favorable terms, or at all, or could result in increased financing costs in the future. Similarly, material adverse changes affecting CNX could negatively impact our unit price, limiting our ability to raise capital through equity issuances or debt financing, or could negatively affect our ability to engage in, expand or pursue our business activities, or could also prevent us from engaging in certain transactions that might otherwise be considered beneficial to us.. Even if we are successful in obtaining the necessary funds to support our growth plan, the terms of such financings could limit our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. In addition, incurring additional debt may significantly increase our interest expense and financial leverage, and issuing additional limited partner interests may result in significant unitholder dilution and would increase the aggregate amount of cash required to maintain the then current distribution rate, which could materially decrease our ability to pay distributions at the then prevailing distribution rate. While we have historically received funding from CNX, none of CNX, CNX Gathering, our general partner or any of their respective affiliates is committed to providing any direct or indirect financial support to fund our growth.. The amount of cash we have available for distribution to our unitholders depends primarily on our cash flow and not solely on our profitability, which may prevent us from making distributions, even during periods in which we record net income.. The amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily upon our cash flow and not solely on our profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record a net loss for financial accounting purposes, and conversely, we might fail to make cash distributions during periods when we record net income for financial accounting purposes.. Increased competition from other companies that provide midstream services, or from alternative fuel sources, could have a negative impact on the demand for our services, which could adversely affect our financial results.. Our ability to renew or replace contracts with our existing customers or negotiate and enter into contracts with new customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows could be adversely affected by the activities of our competitors. Our systems compete for third-party customers primarily with other crude oil and natural gas gathering systems and fresh and saltwater service providers. Some of our competitors have greater financial resources and may now, or in the future, have access to greater supplies of crude oil and natural gas than we do. Some of these competitors may expand or construct gathering systems that would create additional competition for the services we would provide to third-party customers. In addition, potential third-party customers may develop their own gathering systems instead of using ours. Moreover, CNX and its affiliates are not limited in their ability to compete with us outside of our dedicated area.. Further, hydrocarbon fuels compete with other forms of energy available to end-users, including electricity and coal. Increased demand for such other forms of energy at the expense of hydrocarbons could lead to a reduction in demand for our services.. All of these competitive pressures could make it more difficult for us to retain our existing customers or attract new customers as we seek to expand our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders. In addition, competition could intensify the negative impact of factors that decrease demand for natural gas in the markets served by our systems, such as adverse economic conditions, weather, higher fuel costs and taxes or other governmental or regulatory actions that directly or indirectly increase the cost or limit the use of natural gas.. 27. Table of Contents. Our construction of new gathering, compression, dehydration, treating or other midstream assets may not result in revenue increases and may be subject to regulatory, environmental, political, legal and economic risks, which could adversely affect our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition and, as a result, our ability to distribute cash to our unitholders.. The construction of additions or modifications to our existing systems, including pursuant to the terms of our existing gas gathering agreements, involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties beyond our control and may require the expenditure of significant amounts of capital. Financing may not be available on economically acceptable terms or at all. If we undertake these projects, we may not be able to complete them on schedule, at the budgeted cost or at all.. Our revenues may not increase immediately (or at all) upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. For instance, if we build a new compression facility, the construction may occur over an extended period of time, and we may not receive any material increases in revenues until the project is completed. Additionally, we may construct facilities to capture anticipated future production growth in an area in which such growth does not materialize. As a result, new gathering, compression, dehydration, treating or other midstream assets may not be able to attract enough throughput to achieve our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make cash distributions.. The construction of additions to our existing assets may require us to obtain new rights-of-way prior to constructing new pipelines or facilities. We may be unable to timely obtain such rights-of-way to connect new natural gas supplies to our existing gathering pipelines or capitalize on other attractive expansion opportunities. Additionally, it may become more expensive for us to obtain new rights-of-way or to expand or renew existing rights-of-way. If the cost of renewing or obtaining new rights-of-way increases, our cash flows could be adversely affected.. Certain plant or animal species are or could be designated as endangered or threatened, which could have a material impact on our and our customers' operations.. The Federal Endangered Species Act (\"ESA\") and similar state laws protect species threatened with extinction. Protection of endangered and threatened species may cause us to modify gas well pad siting or pipeline right of ways, or develop and implement species-specific protection and enhancement plans to avoid or minimize impacts to endangered species or their habitats. A number of species indigenous to the areas where we operate are protected under the ESA, including the Northern Long-Earned and Indiana bats. Additional species are expected to be considered for listing within our operating region, and we consider this uncertainty, as well as the cost to comply with stringent mitigation requirements, a risk to cost and operational timing.. Our exposure to commodity price risk may change over time and we cannot guarantee the terms of any existing or future agreements for our midstream services with third parties or with CNX.. We currently generate substantially all of our revenues pursuant to fee-based gathering agreements under which we are paid based on the volumes that we gather and compress, rather than the underlying value of the commodity. Consequently, our existing operations and cash flows do not have significant direct exposure to commodity price risk. However, the producers that are customers of our midstream services are exposed to commodity price risk, and extended reduction in commodity prices could adversely reduce the production volumes available for our midstream services in the future below expected levels. Although we intend to enter into fee-based gathering agreements with existing or new customers in the future, our efforts to negotiate such terms may not be successful.. Restrictions in our revolving credit facility, and other debt agreements that we may enter into in the future, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders.. Our $250.0 million revolving credit facility limits, and other debt agreements that we may enter into in the future may limit, our ability (subject to certain exceptions) to, among other things:. • incur or guarantee additional debt;. • redeem or repurchase units or make distributions under certain circumstances;. • make certain investments and acquisitions;. • incur certain liens or permit them to exist;. • enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates;. • merge or consolidate with another company; and. • transfer, sell or otherwise dispose of assets.. Our revolving credit facility also contains, and other debt agreements we may enter into in the future may contain, covenants requiring us to maintain certain financial ratios. For example, under our revolving credit facility, we may not permit the ratio of (i) consolidated total funded debt (as defined in the agreement governing our revolving credit facility) as of the last. 28. Table of Contents. day of each fiscal quarter to (ii) consolidated EBITDA (as defined in the agreement governing our revolving credit facility) for the four consecutive fiscal quarters ending on the last day of such fiscal quarter to exceed (A) at any time other than during a qualified acquisition period (as defined in the agreement governing our revolving credit facility), 5.00 to 1.00 and (B) during a qualified acquisition period (as defined in the agreement governing our revolving credit facility), 5.50 to 1.00. In addition, under our revolving credit facility, we may not permit the ratio of (i) consolidated EBITDA for the four consecutive fiscal quarters ending on the last day of each fiscal quarter to (ii) consolidated interest expense (as defined in the agreement governing our revolving credit facility) for such four consecutive fiscal quarters to be less than 3.00 to 1.00. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will meet any such ratios and tests.. The provisions of our revolving credit facility and other debt agreements we may enter into in the future may affect our ability to obtain future financing and pursue attractive business opportunities and our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in business conditions. In addition, a failure to comply with the provisions of our revolving credit facility could result in a default or an event of default that could enable our lenders to declare the outstanding principal of that debt, together with accrued and unpaid interest, to be immediately due and payable. If the payment of our debt is accelerated, our assets may be insufficient to repay such debt in full, and our unitholders could experience a partial or total loss of their investment. Please read \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Liquidity and Capital Resources\" under Item 7 of Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. A change in the jurisdictional characterization of some of our assets by federal, state or local regulatory agencies or a change in policy by those agencies may result in increased regulation of such assets, which may cause our revenues to decline and our operating expenses to increase.. Our gathering and transportation operations are exempt from regulation by FERC under the NGA. Section 1(b) of the NGA exempts natural gas gathering facilities from regulation by FERC under the NGA. Although FERC has not made any formal determinations with respect to any of our facilities we consider to be gathering facilities, we believe that the natural gas pipelines in our gathering systems meet the traditional tests FERC has used to establish that a natural gas pipeline is a gathering pipeline not subject to FERC jurisdiction. The distinction between FERC-regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services, however, has been the subject of substantial litigation. FERC determines whether facilities are gas gathering facilities on a case-by-case basis, so the classification and regulation of some of our gathering facilities may be subject to change based on future determinations by FERC, the courts, or Congress. If FERC were to consider the status of an individual facility and determine that the facility or services provided by it are not exempt from FERC regulation under the NGA, the rates for, and terms and conditions of, services provided by such facility would be subject to regulation by FERC under the NGA and/or the NGPA. Such regulation could decrease revenue, increase operating costs, and, depending upon the facility in question, could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows.. Other FERC regulations may indirectly impact our businesses and the markets for products derived from these businesses. FERC's policies and practices across the range of its natural gas regulatory activities, including, for example, its policies on open access transportation, market manipulation, ratemaking, gas quality, capacity release and market center promotion, may indirectly affect the intrastate natural gas market. Should we fail to comply with any applicable FERC administered statutes, rules, regulations and orders, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Under the Energy Policy Act of 2005, FERC has civil penalty authority under the NGA and the NGPA to impose penalties for current violations of up to $1,213,503 per day for each violation. Violations of the NGA or the NGPA could also result in administrative and criminal remedies and the disgorgement of any profits associated with the violation.. State regulation of natural gas gathering facilities pipelines generally includes various safety, environmental and, in some circumstances, nondiscriminatory take and common purchaser requirements, as well as complaint-based rate regulation. Other state regulations may not directly apply to our business, but may nonetheless affect the availability of natural gas for purchase, compression and sale.. For more information regarding federal and state regulation of our operations, please read \"Business  -  Regulation of Operations\" under Item 1 of Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. We may incur significant costs and liabilities as a result of pipeline and related facility integrity management program testing and any related pipeline repair or preventative or remedial measures.. PHMSA has adopted regulations requiring pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs for transportation pipelines and related facilities located where a leak or rupture could do the most harm, i.e., in \"high consequence areas.\" The regulations require operators to:. • perform ongoing assessments of pipeline and related facility integrity;. • identify and characterize applicable threats to pipeline segments that could impact a high consequence area;. 29. Table of Contents. • improve data collection, integration and analysis;. • repair and remediate the pipeline as necessary; and. • implement preventive and mitigating actions.. The 2011 Pipeline Safety Act, among other things, increased the maximum civil penalty for pipeline safety violations and directed the Secretary of Transportation to promulgate rules or standards relating to expanded integrity management requirements, automatic or remote-controlled valve use, excess flow valve use, leak detection system installation, and testing to confirm the material strength of pipe operating above 30% of specified minimum yield strength in high consequence areas. In 2017, PHMSA adopted new rules increasing the maximum administrative civil penalties for violation of the pipeline safety laws and regulations to $209,002 per violation per day, with a maximum of $2,909,022 for a related series of violations. Should our operations fail to comply with PHMSA or comparable state regulations, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines. PHMSA has also published notices and advanced notices of proposed rulemaking to solicit comments on the need for changes to its safety regulations, including whether to extend the integrity management program requirements to additional types of facilities, such as gathering pipelines and related facilities. In January 2017, in the final week of the Obama Administration, PHMSA released a pre-publication copy of its final hazardous liquid pipeline safety regulations that would significantly extend the integrity management requirements to previously exempt pipelines and would impose additional obligations on hazardous liquid pipeline operators that are already subject to the integrity management requirements, including periodic integrity assessments and leak detection for pipelines outside of high consequence areas, inspections of pipelines after extreme weather events, expanded reporting, and more stringent integrity management repair and data collection requirements. Due to the change in Presidential administrations, PHMSA's final hazardous liquid pipeline safety rule was never published in the Federal Register and has not yet taken effect. PHMSA is expected to finalize its hazardous liquid pipeline safety rule this year. PHMSA's proposed rule would also require annual reporting of safety-related conditions and incident reports for all hazardous liquid gathering lines and gravity lines, including pipelines that are currently exempt from PHMSA regulations. PHMSA issued a separate regulatory proposal in July 2015 that would impose pipeline incident prevention and response measures on natural gas and hazardous liquid pipeline operators. Additionally, in April 2016, PHMSA published in the Federal Register a Notice of Proposed Rule Making (\"NPRM\") that would significantly modify existing regulations related to reporting, impact, design, construction, maintenance, operations and integrity management of gas transmission and gathering pipelines. The proposed rule addresses four congressional mandates and six recommendations by the National Transportation Safety Board to broaden the scope of safety coverage by adding new assessment and repair criteria for gas transmission pipelines, and by expanding these protocols to include pipelines not formerly regulated by the federal standards. This includes extending regulatory requirements to transmission and gathering pipelines of eight inches and greater in rural Class I areas. Compliance with the rule, as proposed, may prove challenging and costly for operators of older pipelines due to the difficulty of locating historic records. As proposed, compliance with the rule could have a material adverse effect on the Partnership's operations. However, the ultimate impact of the rule on the Partnership remains uncertain until the rulemaking is finalized. PHMSA is expected to finalize its natural gas pipeline safety rule this year.  The adoption of regulations that apply more comprehensive or stringent safety standards could require us to install new or modified safety controls, pursue new capital projects, or conduct maintenance programs on an accelerated basis, all of which could require us to incur increased operational costs that could be significant. While we cannot predict the outcome of legislative or regulatory initiatives, such legislative and regulatory changes could have a material effect on our cash flow. Please read \"Business  -  Regulation of Operations  -  Pipeline Safety Regulation\" under Item 1 of Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Increased regulation of hydraulic fracturing could result in reductions or delays in natural gas, NGL and crude oil production by our customers, which could reduce the throughput on our gathering and other midstream systems, which could adversely impact our revenues.. We do not conduct hydraulic fracturing operations, but substantially all of our customers' natural gas production on our dedicated acreage is developed from unconventional sources, such as shales, that require hydraulic fracturing as part of the completion process. Hydraulic fracturing is a well stimulation process that utilizes large volumes of water and sand combined with fracturing chemical additives that are pumped at high pressure to crack open previously impenetrable rock to release hydrocarbons. Hydraulic fracturing is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions and similar agencies. Some states, including those in which we operate, have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could impose more stringent disclosure and/or well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations, or otherwise seek to ban some or all of these activities. However, the EPA, has asserted certain regulatory authority over hydraulic fracturing and has moved forward with various regulatory actions, including, the issuance of new regulations requiring green completions for hydraulically fractured wells, emission requirements for certain midstream equipment, proposed pretreatment standards that would prohibit the indirect discharge of wastewater from onshore unconventional oil and gas extraction facilities to publicly owned treatment works, and an Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking seeking comment on its intent to develop regulations under the Toxic Substances and Control Act to require companies to disclose information regarding the chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing. Certain environmental groups have also suggested that additional laws may be needed to more closely and uniformly regulate the hydraulic fracturing process, and legislation has been proposed by some members of. 30. Table of Contents. Congress to provide for such regulation. We cannot predict whether any such legislation will be enacted and if so, what its provisions would be. Additional levels of regulation and permits required through the adoption of new laws and regulations at the federal, state or local level could lead to delays, increased operating costs and process prohibitions that could reduce the volumes of natural gas and liquids that move through our gathering systems, which in turn could materially adversely affect operations.. We and our customers may incur significant liability under, or costs and expenditures to comply with, environmental and worker health and safety regulations, which are complex and subject to frequent change.. As an owner and operator of gathering and compressing systems, we are subject to various stringent federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the discharge of materials into, and protection of, the environment and worker health and safety. Numerous governmental authorities, such as the EPA and analogous state agencies, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them, oftentimes requiring difficult and costly response actions. These laws and regulations may impose numerous obligations that are applicable to our and our customers' operations, including the acquisition of permits to conduct regulated activities, the incurrence of capital or operating expenditures to limit or prevent releases of materials from our or our customers' operations, the imposition of specific standards addressing worker protection, and the imposition of substantial liabilities and remedial obligations for pollution or contamination resulting from our and our customers' operations. Failure to comply with these laws, regulations and permits may result in joint and several or strict liability or the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations, and/or the issuance of injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of our operations. Private parties, including the owners of the properties through which our gathering systems pass, may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance, as well as to seek damages for non-compliance, with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage. We may not be able to recover all or any of these costs from insurance. In addition, we may experience a delay in obtaining or be unable to obtain required permits, which may cause us to lose potential and current customers, interrupt our operations and limit our growth and revenues, which in turn could affect our profitability. There is no assurance that changes in or additions to public policy regarding the protection of the environment and worker health and safety will not have a significant impact on our operations and profitability.. In 2013, the EPA issued a draft report entitled Connectivity of Streams and Wetlands to Downstream Waters, which affects a proposed rulemaking that would expand the scope of the Clean Water Act (\"CWA\") to include previously non-jurisdictional streams, wetlands, and waters, making these areas jurisdictional inter-coastal Waters of the U.S (\"WotUS\"). In June 2015, EPA published the final WotUS rule but a federal appeals court stayed implementation of the rule in October 2015 as legal challenges to the rule are considered. In January 2017, the U.S. Supreme Court accepted review of the WotUS rule to determine whether jurisdiction to hear challenges to the rule rests with the federal district or appellate courts. In June 2017, EPA and the Army Corps of Engineers proposed a rule that would initiate the first step in a two-step process intended to review and revise the definition of \"waters of the United States.\"  Under the proposal, the first step would be to rescind the May 2015 WotUS rule and put back into effect the narrower language defining \"waters of the United States\" under the CWA that existed prior to the rule.  The second step would be a notice-and-comment rulemaking in which the agencies will conduct a substantive reevaluation of such definition.  While we cannot at this time predict the final form of the WotUS rule, such rulemaking could lead to additional mitigation costs and severely limit CNX's operations.. Public interest in the protection of the environment has increased dramatically in recent years. The trend of more expansive and stringent environmental legislation and regulations applied to the crude oil and natural gas industry could continue, potentially resulting in increased costs of doing business and consequently affecting profitability. Please read \"Business  -  Regulation of Environmental and Occupational Safety and Health Matters\" under Item 1 of Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Climate change laws and regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the natural gas that we gather while potential physical effects of climate change could disrupt our production and cause us to incur significant costs in preparing for or responding to those effects.. While climate change legislation in the U.S. is generally considered to be unlikely in the next several years, the issue of global climate change continues to attract considerable public and scientific attention with underlying concern about the impacts of human activity, especially the emissions of greenhouse gases (\"GHGs\") such as carbon dioxide (\"CO2\") and methane, on the environment.. The EPA, under the Climate Action Plan, has elected to regulate GHGs under the Clean Air Act (\"CAA\") to limit emissions of CO2 from natural gas-fired power plants. On September 20, 2013, the EPA re-proposed New Source Performance Standards (\"NSPS\") for CO2 emissions from new power plants and on June 2, 2014, the EPA re-proposed NSPS for CO2 emissions from existing and modified/reconstructed power plants, which rescinded the rules that were originally proposed in 2012. On August 3, 2015, the EPA finalized the Carbon Pollution Standards to cut carbon emissions from new, modified and reconstructed power plants, which became effective on October 23, 2015. In another proposed rulemaking related to CO2. 31. Table of Contents. emissions, on June 2, 2014, the EPA proposed the Clean Power Plan Rule to cut carbon emissions from existing power plants. Under this proposed rule, the EPA would create emission guidelines for states to follow in developing plans to address GHG emissions from existing fossil fuel-fired electric generating units. Specifically, the EPA is proposing state-specific rate-based goals for CO2 emissions from the power sector, as well as guidelines for states to follow in developing plans to achieve the state-specific goals. On August 3, 2015, the EPA finalized the Clean Power Plan Rule to cut carbon pollution from existing power plants, which became effective on December 22, 2015. Numerous petitions challenging the Clean Power Plan Rule have been consolidated into one case, West Virginia v. EPA. While the litigation is still ongoing at the circuit court level, a mid-litigation application to the Supreme Court resulted in a stay of the Clean Power Plan Rule. On September 27, 2016, an en banc panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit heard oral arguments in the case. In April 2017, the D.C. Circuit granted the EPA's motion to hold the case in abeyance while the EPA undertakes its review of the regulations. Also in April 2017, the EPA announced that it was initiating a review of the Clean Power Plan consistent with President Trump's Executive Order 13783, and in October 2017 published a proposed rule to formally repeal the Clean Power Plan.. The EPA has adopted regulations under existing provisions of the Clean Air Act that, among other things, establish Prevention of Significant Deterioration (\"PSD\"), construction and Title V operating permit reviews for certain large stationary sources that emit GHGs. Facilities required to obtain PSD permits for their GHG emissions also will be required to meet \"best available control technology\" standards that will be established by the states or, in some cases, by the EPA on a case-by-case basis. These EPA rulemakings could adversely affect our operations and restrict or delay our ability to obtain air permits for new or modified sources. In addition, the EPA has adopted rules requiring the monitoring and reporting of GHG emissions from specified onshore oil and gas production sources in the U.S. on an annual basis, which was expanded in October 2015 to include, amongst other equipment, certain gathering and boosting activities and transmission pipelines. We monitor and file annual required reports for the GHG emissions from our operations in accordance with the GHG emissions reporting rule.. Further, in December 2015, more than 190 countries, including the United States, reached an agreement to reduce greenhouse gas emissions (the \"Paris Agreement\"). However, in June 2017, the Trump Administration announced that the United States plans to withdraw from the Paris Agreement and to seek negotiations either to reenter the Paris Agreement on different terms or establish a new framework agreement.  The Paris Agreement provides for a four-year exit process beginning in November 2016, which would result in an effective exit date of November 2020.  The United States' adherence to the exit process and/or the terms on which the United States may reenter the Paris Agreement or a separately negotiated agreement are unclear at this time. To the extent that the United States adopts regulations in accordance with this agreement, these regulations could adversely affect our business and the businesses of CNX and our customers. As part of the Obama administration's initiative to reduce methane emissions from the oil and gas industry, EPA adopted rules to control volatile organic compound emissions from certain oil and gas equipment and operations. In June 2017, the EPA issued a 90-day stay of certain requirements under the methane rule. The stay was vacated in July 2017 by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit. In the interim, in July 2017, the EPA issued a proposed rule that would stay the methane rule for two years, but this rule is not yet final and is subject to public notice, comment, and legal challenges.. Additionally, some states in which we operate are contemplating measures to reduce emissions of GHGs, primarily through the planned development of GHG emission inventories and potential cap-and-trade programs.  Most of these types of programs require major sources of emissions or major producers of fuels to acquire and surrender emission allowances, with the number of allowances available being reduced each year until a target goal is achieved.  The cost of these allowances could increase over time.. While new laws and regulations are prompting power producers to shift from coal to natural gas, which is increasing demand for natural gas, new regulations that impose GHG limits thereby increasing the costs for permitting, equipping, monitoring and reporting GHGs.. Our business involves many hazards and operational risks, some of which may not be fully covered by insurance. The occurrence of a significant accident or other event that is not fully insured could curtail our operations and have a material adverse effect on our ability to distribute cash and, accordingly, the market price for our common units.. Our operations are subject to all of the hazards inherent in the gathering and compression of natural gas, including:. • damage to pipelines, compressor stations, pump stations, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by design, installation, construction materials or operational flaws, natural disasters, acts of terrorism and acts of third parties;. • leaks of natural gas or condensate or losses of natural gas or condensate as a result of the malfunction of, or other disruptions associated with, equipment or facilities;. • fires, ruptures, landslides, mine subsidence and explosions; and. • other hazards that could also result in personal injury and loss of life, pollution and suspension of operations.. 32. Table of Contents. Any of these risks could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations or result in substantial loss to us as a result of claims for:. • injury or loss of life;. • damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment;. • pollution and other environmental damage;. • regulatory investigations and penalties;. • suspension of our operations; and. • repair and remediation costs.. Although we maintain insurance for a number of risks and hazards, we may not be insured or fully insured against the losses or liabilities that could arise from a significant accident in our operations, as we may elect not to obtain insurance for any or all of these risks if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make cash distributions.. We may not own in fee the land on which our pipelines and facilities are located, which could result in disruptions to our operations.. Most of the land on which our midstream systems have been constructed is not owned in fee by us.  Most of our pipelines and facilities are located on properties that are held by surface use agreements, rights-of-way or other easement rights. We are, therefore, subject to the possibility of more onerous terms or increased costs to retain necessary land use if we do not have valid rights-of-way or if such rights-of-way lapse or terminate. We may obtain the rights to construct and operate our pipelines on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of time. Our loss of these rights, through our inability to renew right-of-way or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make cash distributions.. A shortage of equipment and skilled labor in the Appalachian Basin could reduce equipment availability and labor productivity and increase labor and equipment costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Our gathering and other midstream services require special equipment and laborers who are skilled in multiple disciplines, such as equipment operators, mechanics and engineers, among others. If we experience shortages of necessary equipment or skilled labor in the future, our labor and equipment costs and overall productivity could be materially and adversely affected. If our equipment or labor prices increase or if we experience materially increased health and benefit costs for employees, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. We do not have any officers or employees and rely on officers of our general partner and employees of CNX.. We are managed and operated by the board of directors and executive officers of our general partner. Our general partner has no employees and relies on the employees of CNX to conduct our business and activities.. CNX conducts businesses and activities of its own in which we have no economic interest. As a result, there could be material competition for the time and effort of the officers and employees who provide services to both our general partner and CNX. If our general partner and the officers and employees of CNX do not devote sufficient attention to the management and operation of our business and activities, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make cash distributions could be materially adversely affected.. Our success depends on key members of our general partner's senior management team and our ability to attract and retain experienced technical and other professional personnel.. Our future success depends to a large extent on the services of our general partner's key employees. The loss of one or more of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business. Furthermore, competition for experienced technical and other professional personnel remains strong. If we cannot retain our current personnel or attract additional experienced personnel, our ability to compete could be adversely affected. Also, the loss of experienced personnel could lead to a loss of technical expertise.. Debt we incur may limit our flexibility to obtain financing and to pursue other business opportunities.. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences to us, including the following:. • our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures (including building additional gathering pipelines needed for required connections and building additional compression and treating facilities pursuant to our gathering agreements) or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms;. 33. Table of Contents. • our funds available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to unitholders will be reduced by that portion of our cash flow required to make interest payments on our debt;. • we may be more vulnerable to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and. • our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions may be limited.. Our ability to service our debt will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service our indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying our business activities, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets or issuing equity. We may not be able to effect any of these actions on satisfactory terms or at all.. Increases in interest rates could adversely impact our business, common unit price, our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions, capital expenditures or other purposes and our ability to make cash distributions at our intended levels.. Interest rates may increase in the future. As a result, interest rates on future credit facilities and debt offerings could be higher than current levels, causing our financing costs to increase accordingly. Rising interest rates could reduce the amount of cash we generate and materially adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to pay cash distributions. Moreover, the trading price of our units is sensitive to changes in interest rates and could be materially adversely affected by any increase in interest rates. As with other yield-oriented securities, our common unit price will be impacted by the level of our cash distributions and implied distribution yield. The distribution yield is often used by investors to compare and rank yield-oriented securities for investment decision-making purposes. Therefore, changes in interest rates, either positive or negative, may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our common units, and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact on our common unit price and our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes and to make cash distributions at our intended levels.. Assuming an outstanding balance on the revolving credit facility of $149.5 million, an increase of one percentage point in the interest rates would have resulted in an increase in interest expense during 2017 of $1.5 million. Accordingly, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, all of which affect our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders, could be materially adversely affected by significant increases in interest rates.. Terrorist attacks or cyber-attacks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Terrorist attacks or cyber-attacks may significantly affect the energy industry, and economic conditions, including our operations and our customers, as well as general economic conditions, consumer confidence and spending and market liquidity. Strategic targets, such as energy-related assets, may be at greater risk of future attacks than other targets in the United States.. Consequently, it is possible that any of these occurrences, or a combination of them, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our insurance may not protect us against such occurrences.. The oil and gas industry has become increasingly dependent on digital technologies, including information systems, infrastructure and cloud applications and services, to operate our businesses, to process and record financial and operating data, communicate with our employees and business partners, and to conduct day-to-day operations including certain midstream activities. For example, software programs are used to manage gathering and transportation systems and for compliance reporting. The use of mobile communication devices has increased rapidly. Industrial control systems such as SCADA (supervisory control and data acquisition) now control large scale processes that can include multiple sites and long distances, such as oil and gas pipelines. Our business partners, including vendors, service providers, and financial institutions, are also dependent on digital technology.. As dependence on digital technologies has increased, cyber incidents, including deliberate attacks or unintentional events, also has increased. A cyber-attack could include gaining unauthorized access to digital systems for purposes of misappropriating assets or sensitive information, corrupting data, or causing operational disruption, or result in denial-of-service on websites. SCADA (supervisory control and data acquisition) based systems are potentially vulnerable to targeted cyber-attacks due to their critical role in operations.. Our technologies, systems, networks, and those of our business partners may become the target of cyber-attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of proprietary and other information, or other disruption of our business operations. In addition, certain cyber incidents, such as surveillance, may remain undetected for an extended period.. Deliberate attacks on our assets, or security breaches in our systems or infrastructure, the systems or infrastructure of third-parties, or the cloud could lead to corruption or loss of our proprietary data and potentially sensitive data, difficulty in completing and settling transactions, challenges in maintaining our books and records, environmental damage, communication interruptions, other operational disruptions and third -party liability, including the following:. 34. Table of Contents. • a cyber-attack on a vendor or service provider could result in supply chain disruptions which could delay or halt development of additional infrastructure, effectively delaying the start of cash flows from the project;3. • a cyber-attack on our facilities may result in equipment damage or failure;. • a cyber-attack on downstream pipelines could prevent us from delivering product at the tailgate of our facilities, resulting in a loss of revenues;. • a cyber-attack on a communications network or power grid could cause operational disruption resulting in loss of revenues;. • a deliberate corruption of our financial or operational data could result in events of non-compliance which could lead to regulatory fines or penalties; and. • business interruptions could result in expensive remediation efforts, distraction of management, damage to our reputation, or a negative impact on the price of our units.. Our implementation of various controls and processes, including globally incorporating a risk-based cyber security framework, to monitor and mitigate security threats and to increase security for our information, facilities and infrastructure is costly and labor intensive. Moreover, there can be no assurance that such measures will be sufficient to prevent security breaches from occurring. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities.. Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us. Our general partner and its affiliates, including CNX, have conflicts of interest with us and limited fiduciary duties to us and our unitholders, and they may favor their own interests to our detriment and that of our unitholders. Additionally, we have no control over the business decisions and operations of CNX, and CNX is under no obligation to adopt a business strategy that favors us.. As of January 3, 2018, CNX owns an aggregate 33.43% limited partner interest in us. CNX, through its ownership of CNX Gathering, also owns a 2.0% general partner interest and owns and controls our general partner. In addition, CNX Gathering owns 95% noncontrolling equity interests in each of our Growth Systems and Additional Systems. Although our general partner has a duty to manage us in a manner that is in the best interests of our partnership and our unitholders, the directors and officers of our general partner also have a duty to manage our general partner in a manner that is in the best interests of its owner, CNX Gathering, which is owned by CNX. Conflicts of interest may arise between CNX and its affiliates, including our general partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts, the general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates, including CNX, over the interests of our common unitholders. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations:. • neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires CNX to pursue business strategies that favor us or utilize our assets, which could involve decisions by CNX to increase or decrease natural gas production on our dedicated acreage, release portions of their dedicated acreage, as permitted by the terms the gas gathering agreements, pursue and grow particular markets or undertake acquisition opportunities for itself. CNX's directors and officers have a fiduciary duty to make these decisions in the best interests of the stockholders of CNX;. • CNX may be constrained by the terms of its debt instruments from taking actions, or refraining from taking actions, that may be in our best interests;. • our partnership agreement replaces the fiduciary duties that would otherwise be owed by our general partner with contractual standards governing its duties and limits our general partner's liabilities and the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without the limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty under applicable Delaware law;. • except in limited circumstances, our general partner has the power and authority to conduct our business without unitholder approval;. • our general partner determines the amount and timing of, among other things, cash expenditures, borrowings and repayments of indebtedness, the issuance of additional partnership interests, the creation, increase or reduction in cash reserves in any quarter and asset purchases and sales, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is available for distribution to unitholders;. • our general partner determines the amount and timing of any capital expenditures and whether a capital expenditure is classified as a maintenance capital expenditure, which reduces operating surplus, or an expansion capital expenditure, which does not reduce operating surplus. This determination can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders and to our general partner, the amount of adjusted operating surplus generated in any given period;. • our general partner determines which costs incurred by it are reimbursable by us;. • our general partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions or to make incentive distributions;. • our partnership agreement permits us to classify up to $50.0 million as operating surplus, even if it is generated from asset sales, non-working capital borrowings or other sources that would otherwise constitute capital surplus. This cash. 35. Table of Contents. may be used to fund distributions to our general partner in respect of the general partner interest or the incentive distribution rights;. • our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf;. • our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations;. • our general partner may exercise its right to call and purchase all of the common units not owned by it and its affiliates if it and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units;. • our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by our general partner and its affiliates, including our gathering agreements with CNX;. • our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us; and. • our general partner, or any transferee holding incentive distribution rights, may elect to cause us to issue common units and general partner interests to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to its incentive distribution rights, without the approval of the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner, which we refer to as our conflicts committee, or our common unitholders. This election could result in lower distributions to our common unitholders in certain situations.. Neither our partnership agreement nor our omnibus agreement prohibits CNX or any other affiliates of our general partner from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Under the terms of our partnership agreement, the doctrine of corporate opportunity, or any analogous doctrine, does not apply to our general partner or any of its affiliates, including CNX and executive officers and directors of our general partner. Any such person or entity that becomes aware of a potential transaction, agreement, arrangement or other matter that may be an opportunity for us does not have any duty to communicate or offer such opportunity to us. Any such person or entity will not be liable to us or to any limited partner for breach of any fiduciary duty or other duty by reason of the fact that such person or entity pursues or acquires such opportunity for itself, directs such opportunity to another person or entity or does not communicate such opportunity or information to us. Consequently, CNX and other affiliates of our general partner, including CNX Gathering, may acquire, construct or dispose of additional midstream assets in the future without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase any of those assets. As a result, competition from CNX and other affiliates of our general partner could materially and adversely impact our results of operations and distributable cash flow. This may create actual and potential conflicts of interest between us and affiliates of our general partner and result in less than favorable treatment of us and our unitholders.. Our partnership agreement requires that we distribute all of our available cash, which could limit our ability to grow and make acquisitions.. Our partnership agreement requires that we distribute all of our available cash to our unitholders. As a result, we expect to rely primarily upon external financing sources, including commercial bank borrowings and the issuance of debt and equity securities, to fund our acquisitions and expansion capital expenditures. Therefore, to the extent we are unable to finance our growth externally, our cash distribution policy will significantly impair our ability to grow. In addition, because we will distribute all of our available cash, our growth may not be as fast as that of businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. To the extent we issue additional partnership interests in connection with any acquisitions or expansion capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional partnership interests may increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain or increase our per unit distribution level. There are no limitations in our partnership agreement on our ability to issue additional partnership interests, including partnership interests ranking senior to our common units as to distributions or in liquidation or that have special voting rights and other rights, and our common unitholders have no preemptive or other rights (solely as a result of their status as common unitholders) to purchase any such additional partnership interests. The incurrence of additional commercial bank borrowings or other debt to finance our growth strategy would result in increased interest expense, which, in turn, may reduce the amount of cash that we have available to distribute to our unitholders.. Our partnership agreement replaces our general partner's fiduciary duties to holders of our common units with contractual standards governing its duties.. Delaware law provides that a Delaware limited partnership may, in its partnership agreement, expand, restrict or eliminate the fiduciary duties otherwise owed by the general partner to limited partners and the partnership, provided that the partnership agreement may not eliminate the implied contractual covenant of good faith and fair dealing. This implied covenant is a judicial doctrine utilized by Delaware courts in connection with interpreting ambiguities in partnership agreements and other contracts, and does not form the basis of any separate or independent fiduciary duty in addition to the express contractual duties set forth in our partnership agreement. Under the implied contractual covenant of good faith and fair dealing, a court will enforce the reasonable expectations of the partners where the language in the partnership agreement does not provide for a clear course of action.. As permitted by Delaware law, our partnership agreement contains provisions that eliminate the fiduciary standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law and replaces those duties with several different. 36. Table of Contents. contractual standards. For example, our partnership agreement permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner, free of any duties to us and our unitholders. This provision entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires and relieves it of any duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or our limited partners. By purchasing a common unit, a unitholder is treated as having consented to the provisions in our partnership agreement, including the provisions discussed above.. Our partnership agreement restricts the remedies available to holders of our common units for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty.. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that restrict the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty under state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement:. • provides that whenever our general partner makes a determination or takes, or declines to take, any other action in its capacity as our general partner, our general partner is required to make such determination, or take or decline to take such other action, in good faith, meaning that it subjectively believed that the determination or the decision to take or decline to take such action was in the best interests of our partnership, and will not be subject to any other or different standard imposed by our partnership agreement, Delaware law, or any other law, rule or regulation, or at equity;. • provides that our general partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a general partner so long as it acted in good faith;. • provides that our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us or our limited partners resulting from any act or omission unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our general partner or its officers and directors, as the case may be, acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was criminal; and. • provides that our general partner will not be in breach of its obligations under our partnership agreement or its fiduciary duties to us or our limited partners if a transaction with an affiliate or the resolution of a conflict of interest is approved in accordance with, or otherwise meets the standards set forth in, our partnership agreement.. In connection with a situation involving a transaction with an affiliate or a conflict of interest, our partnership agreement provides that any determination by our general partner must be made in good faith, and that our conflicts committee and the board of directors of our general partner are entitled to a presumption that they acted in good faith. In any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or the partnership, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption.. Cost reimbursements, which will be determined in our general partner's sole discretion, and fees due our general partner and its affiliates for services provided will be substantial and will reduce the amount of cash we have available for distribution to unitholders.. Under our partnership agreement, we are required to reimburse our general partner and its affiliates for all costs and expenses that they incur on our behalf for managing and controlling our business and operations. Except to the extent specified under our omnibus agreement and operational services agreement, our general partner determines the amount of these expenses. Under the terms of the omnibus agreement we are required to reimburse CNX for the provision of certain administrative support services to us. Under our operational services agreement, we are required to reimburse CNX for the provision of certain maintenance, operating, administrative and construction services in support of our operations. Our general partner and its affiliates also may provide us other services for which we will be charged fees as determined by our general partner. The costs and expenses for which we will reimburse our general partner and its affiliates may include salary, bonus, incentive compensation and other amounts paid to persons who perform services for us or on our behalf and expenses allocated to our general partner by its affiliates. The costs and expenses for which we are required to reimburse our general partner and its affiliates are not subject to any caps or other limits. Payments to our general partner and its affiliates will be substantial and will reduce the amount of cash we have available to distribute to unitholders.. Unitholders have very limited voting rights and, even if they are dissatisfied, they will have limited ability to remove our general partner.. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management's decisions regarding our business. For example, unlike holders of stock in a public corporation, unitholders have no \"say-on-pay\" advisory voting rights. Unitholders have no right to elect our general partner or the board of directors of our general partner on an annual or other continuing basis. The board of directors of our general partner is chosen by its sole member, CNX Gathering, which is owned by CNX. Furthermore, if the unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they have little ability to remove our general partner.. 37. Table of Contents. As a result of these limitations, the price at which our common units trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price.. Our general partner may not be removed unless such removal is both (i) for cause and (ii) approved by a vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of the outstanding units, including any units owned by our general partner and its affiliates, voting together as a single class. \"Cause\" is narrowly defined under our partnership agreement to mean that a court of competent jurisdiction has entered a final, non-appealable judgment finding our general partner liable to us or any limited partner for actual fraud or willful misconduct in its capacity as our general partner. Cause does not include most cases of charges of poor management of the business. As of January 3, 2018, CNX owns approximately 34.1% of our total outstanding common units. As a result, our public unitholders have limited ability to remove our general partner.. Furthermore, unitholders' voting rights are further restricted by the partnership agreement provision providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates, their transferees, and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our general partner, cannot vote on any matter.. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders' ability to influence the manner or direction of management.. Our general partner interest or the control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent.. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest in us to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders. Furthermore, there is no restriction in our partnership agreement on the ability of CNX Gathering to transfer its membership interest in our general partner to a third party. The new owner of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of our general partner with its own choices.. The incentive distribution rights held by our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent.. Our general partner may transfer its incentive distribution rights to a third party at any time without the consent of our unitholders. If our general partner transfers its incentive distribution rights to a third party but retains its general partner interest, our general partner may not have the same incentive to grow our partnership and increase quarterly distributions to unitholders over time as it would if it had retained ownership of its incentive distribution rights.. We may issue an unlimited number of additional partnership interests without unitholder approval, which would dilute unitholder interests.. At any time, we may issue an unlimited number of general partner interests or limited partner interests of any type without the approval of our unitholders, and our unitholders have no preemptive or other rights (solely as a result of their status as unitholders) to purchase any such general partner interests or limited partner interests. Further, there are no limitations in our partnership agreement on our ability to issue equity securities that rank equal or senior to our common units as to distributions or in liquidation or that have special voting rights and other rights. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects:. • our unitholders' proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease;. • the amount of cash we have available to distribute on each unit may decrease;. • the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase;. • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and. • the market price of our common units may decline.. The issuance by us of additional general partner interests may have the following effects, among others, if such general partner interests are issued to a person who is not an affiliate of CNX:. • management of our business may no longer reside solely with our current general partner; and. • affiliates of the newly admitted general partner may compete with us, and neither that general partner nor such affiliates will have any obligation to present business opportunities to us except with respect to rights of first offer contained in our omnibus agreement.. 38. Table of Contents. CNX or Noble Energy may sell common units in the public or private markets, and such sales could have an adverse impact on the trading price of the common units.. CNX currently holds 21,692,198 common units. Our partnership agreement provides CNX with certain registration rights under applicable securities laws. In connection with CNX's acquisition of Noble Energy's interest in CNX Gathering, we entered into a registration rights agreement (the \"RRA\") with an affiliate of Noble Energy.  The RRA provides Noble Energy with certain registration rights with respect to the resale of up to 21,692,198 common units, which equals all the common units that Noble Energy holds following conversion of the subordinated units.  The sale of the common units held by CNX or Noble Energy in the public or private markets could have an adverse impact on the market for and price of our common units.. Our general partner's discretion in establishing cash reserves may reduce the amount of cash we have available to distribute to unitholders.. Our partnership agreement requires our general partner to deduct from operating surplus the cash reserves that it determines are necessary to fund our future operating expenditures. In addition, the partnership agreement permits the general partner to reduce available cash by establishing cash reserves for the proper conduct of our business, to comply with applicable law or agreements to which we are a party, or to provide funds for future distributions to partners. These cash reserves will affect the amount of cash we have available to distribute to unitholders.. Affiliates of our general partner, including CNX and CNX Gathering, may compete with us, and neither our general partner nor its affiliates have any obligation to present business opportunities to us except with respect to rights of first offer contained in our omnibus agreement.. Neither our partnership agreement nor our omnibus agreement prohibit CNX or any other affiliates of our general partner, including CNX Gathering, from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Under the terms of our partnership agreement, the doctrine of corporate opportunity, or any analogous doctrine, does not apply to our general partner or any of its affiliates, including CNX and executive officers and directors of our general partner. Any such person or entity that becomes aware of a potential transaction, agreement, arrangement or other matter that may be an opportunity for us will not have any duty to communicate or offer such opportunity to us. Any such person or entity will not be liable to us or to any limited partner for breach of any fiduciary duty or other duty by reason of the fact that such person or entity pursues or acquires such opportunity for itself, directs such opportunity to another person or entity or does not communicate such opportunity or information to us. Consequently, CNX and other affiliates of our general partner, including CNX Gathering, may acquire, construct or dispose of additional midstream assets in the future without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase any of those assets. As a result, competition from CNX and other affiliates of our general partner could materially and adversely impact our results of operations and distributable cash flow.. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require our unitholders to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price.. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of our then-outstanding common units, our general partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than their then current market price. As a result, our unitholders may be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on your investment. Our unitholders may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of their units. As of January 3, 2018, CNX owns approximately 34.1% of our common units.. Our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations.. Our general partner intends to limit its liability under contractual arrangements and other obligations between us and third parties so that the counterparties to such arrangements have recourse only against our assets and not against our general partner or its assets (or against any affiliate of our general partner or its assets). Our general partner may therefore cause us to incur indebtedness or other obligations that are nonrecourse to our general partner. Our partnership agreement provides that any action taken by our general partner to limit its liability is not a breach of our general partner's duties, even if we could have obtained more favorable terms without the limitation on liability. In addition, we are obligated to reimburse or indemnify our general partner to the extent that it incurs obligations on our behalf. Any such reimbursement or indemnification payments would reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution to our unitholders.. 39. Table of Contents. Unitholders may have to repay distributions that were wrongfully distributed to them.. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act (the \"Delaware Act\"), we may not make a distribution to our unitholders if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of the impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Transferees of common units are liable for the obligations of the transferor to make contributions to the partnership that are known to the transferee at the time of the transfer and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from our partnership agreement. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interest and liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted.. Our general partner, or any transferee holding incentive distribution rights, may elect to cause us to issue common units and general partner interests to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to its incentive distribution rights, without the approval of our conflicts committee or our common unitholders. This election could result in lower distributions to our common unitholders in certain situations.. Our general partner has the right, at any time when it has received distributions on its incentive distribution rights at the highest level to which it is entitled (48%, in addition to distributions paid on its 2% general partner interest) for each of the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters, to reset the initial target distribution levels at higher levels based on our distributions at the time of the exercise of the reset election. Following a reset election, the minimum quarterly distribution will be adjusted to equal the reset minimum quarterly distribution, and the target distribution levels will be reset to correspondingly higher levels based on percentage increases above the reset minimum quarterly distribution.. If our general partner elects to reset the target distribution levels, it will be entitled to receive a number of common units and a general partner interest. The number of common units to be issued to our general partner will be equal to that number of common units that would have entitled their holder to an average aggregate quarterly cash distribution in the prior two quarters equal to the average of the distributions to our general partner on the incentive distribution rights in such two quarters. Our general partner will also be issued an additional general partner interest necessary to maintain our general partner's interest in us at the level that existed immediately prior to the reset election. We anticipate that our general partner would exercise this reset right in order to facilitate acquisitions or internal growth projects that would not be sufficiently accretive to cash distributions per common unit without such conversion. It is possible, however, that our general partner could exercise this reset election at a time when it is experiencing, or expects to experience, declines in the cash distributions it receives related to its incentive distribution rights and may, therefore, desire to be issued common units rather than retain the right to receive distributions based on the initial target distribution levels. This risk could be elevated if our incentive distribution rights have been transferred to a third party. As a result, a reset election may cause our common unitholders to experience a reduction in the amount of cash distributions that they would have otherwise received had we not issued new common units and general partner interests in connection with resetting the target distribution levels. Additionally, our general partner has the right to transfer all or any portion of our incentive distribution rights at any time, and such transferee shall have the same rights as the general partner relative to resetting target distributions if our general partner concurs that the tests for resetting target distributions have been fulfilled.. Units held by persons who our general partner determines are not \"eligible holders\" at the time of any requested certification in the future may be subject to redemption.. As a result of certain laws and regulations to which we are or may in the future become subject, we may require owners of our common units to certify that they are both U.S. citizens and subject to U.S. federal income taxation on our income. Units held by persons who our general partner determines are not \"eligible holders\" at the time of any requested certification in the future may be subject to redemption. \"Eligible holders\" are limited partners whose (or whose owners') (i) U.S. federal income tax status or lack of proof of U.S. federal income tax status does not have and is not reasonably likely to have, as determined by our general partner, a material adverse effect on the rates that can be charged to customers by us or our subsidiaries with respect to assets that are subject to regulation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission or similar regulatory body and (ii) nationality, citizenship or other related status does not create and is not reasonably likely to create, as determined by our general partner, a substantial risk of cancellation or forfeiture of any property in which we have an interest. The aggregate redemption price for redeemable interests will be an amount equal to the current market price (the date of determination of which will be the date fixed for redemption) of limited partner interests of the class to be so redeemed multiplied by the number of limited partner interests of each such class included among the redeemable interests. For these purposes, the \"current market price\" means, as of any date for any class of limited partner interests, the average of the daily closing prices per limited partner interest of such class for the 20 consecutive trading days immediately prior to such date. The redemption price will be paid in cash or by delivery of a promissory note, as determined by our general partner. The units held by any person the general partner determines is not an eligible holder will not be entitled to voting rights.. 40. Table of Contents. Our partnership agreement designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our unitholders, which limits our unitholders' ability to choose the judicial forum for disputes with us or our general partner's directors, officers or other employees. Our partnership agreement also provides that any unitholder bringing an unsuccessful action will be obligated to reimburse us for any costs we have incurred in connection with such unsuccessful action.. Our partnership agreement provides that, with certain limited exceptions, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware (or, if such court does not have subject matter jurisdiction thereof, any other court located in the State of Delaware with subject matter jurisdiction) shall be the exclusive forum for any claims, suits, actions or proceedings (i) arising out of or relating in any way to our partnership agreement (including any claims, suits or actions to interpret, apply or enforce the provisions of our partnership agreement or the duties, obligations or liabilities among our partners, or obligations or liabilities of our partners to us, or the rights or powers of, or restrictions on, our partners or us), (ii) brought in a derivative manner on our behalf, (iii) asserting a claim of breach of a duty owed by any of our, or our general partner's, directors, officers, or other employees, or owed by our general partner, to us or our partners, (iv) asserting a claim against us arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware Act or (v) asserting a claim against us governed by the internal affairs doctrine.. If any person brings any of the aforementioned claims, suits, actions or proceedings and such person does not obtain a judgment on the merits that substantially achieves, in substance and amount, the full remedy sought, then such person shall be obligated to reimburse us and our affiliates for all fees, costs and expenses of every kind and description, including but not limited to all reasonable attorneys' fees and other litigation expenses, that the parties may incur in connection with such claim, suit, action or proceeding. In addition, our partnership agreement provides that each limited partner irrevocably waives the right to trial by jury in any such claim, suit, action or proceeding. By purchasing a common unit, a limited partner is irrevocably consenting to these limitations and provisions regarding claims, suits, actions or proceedings and submitting to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware (or such other court) in connection with any such claims, suits, actions or proceedings. These provisions may have the effect of discouraging lawsuits against us and our general partner's directors and officers.. The NYSE does not require a publicly traded limited partnership like us to comply with certain of its corporate governance requirements.. Our common units are listed on the NYSE under the symbol \"CNXM.\" Because we are a publicly traded limited partnership, the NYSE does not require us to have a majority of independent directors on our general partner's board of directors or to establish a compensation committee or a nominating and corporate governance committee. Additionally, any future issuance of additional common units or other securities, including to affiliates, will not be subject to the NYSE's shareholder approval rules that apply to a corporation. Accordingly, unitholders do not have the same protections afforded to certain corporations that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements.. Our unitholders' liability may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business.. Our partnership is organized under Delaware law. Assuming that a limited partner does not participate in the control of our business within the meaning of the Delaware Act and that it otherwise acts in conformity with the provisions of our partnership agreement, its liability under the Delaware Act will be limited, subject to possible exceptions, to the amount of capital it is obligated to contribute to us for its common units plus its share of any undistributed profits and assets. If it were determined, however, that the right, or exercise of the right of, by the limited partners as a group to:. • remove or replace our general partner for cause;. • approve some amendments to our partnership agreement; or. • take other action under our partnership agreement;. constituted \"participation in the control\" of our business for the purposes of the Delaware Act, then the limited partners could be held personally liable for our obligations under the laws of Delaware, to the same extent as our general partner. This liability would extend to persons who transact business with us who reasonably believe that a limited partner is a general partner. Neither our partnership agreement nor the Delaware Act specifically provides for legal recourse against our general partner if a limited partner were to lose limited liability through any fault of our general partner. While this does not mean that a limited partner could not seek legal recourse, we know of no precedent for this type of a claim in Delaware case law.. Our operating subsidiaries conduct business in Pennsylvania and West Virginia. We may have subsidiaries that conduct business in other states in the future. Maintenance of our limited liability as a partner or member of our subsidiaries may require compliance with legal requirements in the jurisdictions in which such subsidiaries conduct business, including qualifying such entities to do business there. Limitations on the liability of members or limited partners for the obligations of a limited liability company or limited partnership, respectively, have not been clearly established in many jurisdictions. If, by virtue of our ownership interests in our operating subsidiaries or otherwise, it were determined that we were conducting business in any state without compliance with the applicable limited partnership or limited liability company statute, or that the. 41. Table of Contents. right or exercise of the right by the limited partners as a group to remove or replace our general partner for cause, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement, or to take other action under our partnership agreement constituted \"participation in the control\" of our business for purposes of the statutes of any relevant jurisdiction, then the limited partners could be held personally liable for our obligations under the law of that jurisdiction to the same extent as our general partner under the circumstances.. If we are deemed an \"investment company\" under the Investment Company Act of 1940, it would adversely affect the price of our common units and could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our initial assets consist of direct and indirect ownership interests in our operating subsidiaries. If a sufficient amount of our assets, such as our ownership interests in these subsidiaries or other assets acquired in the future, are deemed to be \"investment securities\" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the \"Investment Company Act\"), we would either have to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, obtain exemptive relief from the SEC or modify our organizational structure or our contract rights to fall outside the definition of an investment company. In that event, it is possible that our ownership of these interests, combined with our assets acquired in the future, could result in our being required to register under the Investment Company Act if we were not successful in obtaining exemptive relief or otherwise modifying our organizational structure or applicable contract rights. Treatment of us as an investment company would prevent our qualification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, in which case we would be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. As a result, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, distributions to our unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions and none of our income, gains, losses or deductions would flow through to our unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as an investment company would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to the unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units.. Moreover, registering as an investment company could, among other things, materially limit our ability to engage in transactions with affiliates, including the purchase of additional interests in our midstream systems from CNX, restrict our ability to borrow funds or engage in other transactions involving leverage and require us to add additional directors who are independent of us or our affiliates. The occurrence of some or all of these events would adversely affect the price of our common units and could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Tax Risks. Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. If the Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, which would subject us to entity-level taxation, or if we were otherwise subjected to a material amount of additional entity-level taxation, then our distributable cash flow to our unitholders would be substantially reduced.. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in the common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS on this or any other tax matter affecting us.. Despite the fact that we are a limited partnership under Delaware law, it is possible in certain circumstances for a partnership such as ours to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. A change in our business or a change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity.. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 21%, and would likely pay state and local income tax at varying rates. Distributions would generally be taxed again as corporate dividends (to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits), and no income, gains, losses, deductions, or credits would flow through to you. In addition, changes in current state law may subject us to additional entity-level taxation by individual states. Several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. Imposition of any such taxes may substantially reduce the cash available for distribution to you. Therefore, if we were treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or otherwise subjected to a material amount of entity-level taxation, there would be a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units.. Our partnership agreement provides that, if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution levels may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us.. 42. Table of Contents. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our common units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis.. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. For example, members of Congress and the President have periodically considered substantive changes to the existing U.S. federal income tax laws that would affect the tax treatment of certain publicly traded partnerships, including the elimination of partnership tax treatment for publicly traded partnerships. Further, final Treasury regulations under Section 7704(d)(1)(E) of the Code published in the Federal Register interpret the scope of qualifying income requirements for publicly traded partnerships by providing industry-specific guidance. We do not believe these final regulations affect our ability to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. Any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be retroactively applied and could make it more difficult or impossible to satisfy the requirements of the exception pursuant to which we are treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We are unable to predict whether any such changes will ultimately be enacted. However, it is possible that a change in law could affect us, and any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units.. Our unitholders' share of our income will be taxable to them for federal income tax purposes even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us.. Because a unitholder will be treated as a partner to whom we will allocate taxable income that could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, a unitholder's allocable share of our taxable income will be taxable to it, which may require the payment of federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes, on its share of our taxable income even if it receives no cash distributions from us. Our unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income.. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders.. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take, and the IRS's positions may ultimately be sustained. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take and such positions may not ultimately be sustained. A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS, and the outcome of any IRS contest, may have a materially adverse impact on the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner because the costs will reduce our distributable cash flow.. For partnership tax years beginning after 2017, the rules for auditing large partnerships and for assessing and collecting taxes due (including penalties and interest) as a result of a partnership-level federal income tax audit were altered. Under these rules, unless we are eligible to, and do, elect to issue revised Schedules K-1 to our partnership with respect to an audited and adjusted partnership tax return, the IRS may assess and collect taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) directly from us in the year in which the audit is completed. If we are required to pay taxes, penalties and interest as a result of audit adjustments, cash available for distribution to our unitholders may be substantially reduced. In addition, because payment would be due for the taxable year in which the audit is completed, unitholders during that taxable year would bear the expense of the adjustment even if they were not unitholders during the audited tax year.. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected.. If our unitholders sell common units, they will recognize a gain or loss for federal income tax purposes equal to the difference between the amount realized and their tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of their allocable share of our net taxable income decrease their tax basis in their common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the common units a unitholder sells will, in effect, become taxable income to the unitholder if it sells such common units at a price greater than its tax basis in those common units, even if the price received is less than its original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized on any sale of your common units, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder's share of our nonrecourse liabilities, a unitholder that sells common units may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash received from the sale.. 43. Table of Contents. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning our common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them.. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income.. We treat each purchaser of common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units.. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and because of other reasons, we adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to you. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from your sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to your tax returns.. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first business day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge aspects of our proration method, and, if successful, we would be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first business day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The U.S. Department of Treasury and the IRS issued Treasury Regulations that permit publicly traded partnerships to use a monthly simplifying convention that is similar to ours, but they do not specifically authorize all aspects of the proration method we have adopted. If the IRS were to successfully challenge this method, we could be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.. A unitholder whose common units are loaned to a \"short seller\" to effect a short sale of common units may be considered as having disposed of those common units. If so, he would no longer be treated for federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition.. Because a unitholder whose common units are loaned to a \"short seller\" to effect a short sale of common units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned common units, he may no longer be treated for federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those common units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those common units could be fully taxable as ordinary income.. We have adopted certain valuation methodologies in determining a unitholder's allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction. The IRS may challenge these methodologies or the resulting allocations, and such a challenge could adversely affect the value of the common units.. In determining the items of income, gain, loss and deduction allocable to our unitholders, in certain circumstances, including when we issue additional units, we must determine the fair market value of our assets. Although we may from time to time consult with professional appraisers regarding valuation matters, we make many fair market value estimates using a methodology based on the market value of our common units as a means to measure the fair market value of our assets. The IRS may challenge these valuation methods and the resulting allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction.. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount, character and timing of taxable income or loss allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain from our unitholders' sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders' tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions.. 44. Table of Contents. As a result of investing in our common units, you may become subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in jurisdictions where we operate or own or acquire properties.. In addition to federal income taxes, our unitholders are likely subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or control property now or in the future, even if they do not live in any of those jurisdictions. Our unitholders are likely required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, our unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We currently conduct business in Pennsylvania and West Virginia. Both Pennsylvania and West Virginia currently impose a personal income tax on individuals. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may control assets or conduct business in additional states that impose a personal income tax. It is your responsibility to file all federal, state and local tax returns."
