[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to our Business. A significant portion of our revenue for 2017 was derived from a single institutional client.. As of December 31, 2017, our largest institutional client, Daiwa Asset Management, which holds assets in numerous strategies and in subadvisory and model-based accounts and products, represented approximately 11% of our total revenue for 2017. Approximately 39% of the institutional account assets we managed and approximately 18% of our total assets under management as well as approximately 17% of our assets under advisement were derived from this client. Investor demand for products we subadvise for this client can be affected by, among other things, changes in the distributions paid by those products, the strength of the Japanese yen compared to the currencies in which the assets held in those products are denominated, and the market and regulatory environment in the Japanese mutual fund market. Loss of, or significant withdrawal of assets from, any of these accounts would reduce our revenue and adversely affect our financial condition.. A decline in the absolute or relative performance of real estate securities would have an adverse effect on the assets we manage and our revenue.. As of December 31, 2017, a significant majority of the assets we managed were concentrated in real estate securities. Real estate securities and real property investments owned by the issuers of real estate securities are subject to varying degrees of risk that could affect any returns we realize. Returns on investments in real estate securities depend on the amount of income and capital appreciation or loss realized by the underlying real property. Income and real estate values may be adversely affected by, among other things, the cost of compliance with applicable laws, interest rates, the availability of financing, the creditworthiness of the tenants, and the limited ability of issuers of real estate securities to vary their portfolios promptly in response to changes in market conditions. If the underlying properties do not generate sufficient income to meet operating expenses, the income and the ability of an issuer of real estate securities to pay interest and principal on debt securities or any dividends on common or preferred stocks will be adversely affected. A decline in the performance of real estate securities would have an adverse effect on the assets we manage and reduce the fees we earn and our revenue.. Our growth may be constrained by the size and number of real estate securities issuers, as well as REIT ownership restrictions.. Investments in real estate securities continue to play an important role in our overall business strategy. Our ability to continue to increase our ownership of real estate securities depends, in part, on growth in the size and number of issuers in the real estate securities market, particularly in the U.S. Our ability to increase our ownership may also be constrained by REIT ownership limits, which limit ownership of a REIT's outstanding capital stock, common stock, and/or preferred stock. Although certain REITs in which we invest have granted us waivers from these ownership limits to allow greater investment, such REITs generally retain the right to revoke or reduce the waiver limits at any time. As a result of these constraints, we have in the past, and may in the future, be prevented from acquiring new or additional real estate securities, which may negatively affect our ability to increase the assets we manage and our revenue.. Seed investments made to support the launch of new strategies and products may expose us to potential losses on invested capital.. Our success is partially dependent on our ability to develop, launch, market and manage new investment strategies and products. New investment strategies and products require an initial cash investment, time and the appropriate resources as well as ongoing marketing and other support including subsidies of operating costs.. From time to time, we may support the launch of new investment strategies and products by making seed investments in those strategies and products. Numerous risks and uncertainties are associated with all stages of the seed investment product life cycle, including investment performance, market risks, shifting client or market preferences, the introduction of competing products and compliance with regulatory requirements. Seed investments in new products utilize capital that would otherwise be available for other corporate purposes and expose us to potential capital losses, against which we do not currently hedge. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we recorded non-operating income from seed investments of $3.9 million, excluding income attributable to redeemable noncontrolling interest, the majority of which was unrealized. For the year ended December 31, 2016, we recorded non-operating income from seed investments of $6.8 million, excluding losses attributable to redeemable noncontrolling interest, the majority of which was unrealized. To the extent we incur losses on our seed investments, our earnings and financial condition may be adversely impacted.. 6. Regulations restricting the use of commission credits to pay for research will increase our operating expenses.. On behalf of our clients, we make decisions to buy and sell securities, select broker-dealers to execute trades and negotiate brokerage commission rates. In connection with these transactions, we may receive commission credits to pay for eligible research and services from broker-dealers and other eligible service providers that have the effect of reducing certain expenses. New regulation in the European Union has led the Company to eliminate the use of commission credits to pay for research for accounts managed by CSUK and other accounts subject to MiFID II. This will increase the Company's operating expenses because we will now pay for research from our own assets. In the future, the Company may also adopt this approach for other accounts depending on market and regulatory developments, which will further increase the Company's operating expenses.. We face substantial competition in all aspects of our investment management business.. The investment management industry is highly competitive and investment management customers are increasingly fee sensitive. We compete against a large number of investment products and services sold to the public by investment management companies, investment dealers, banks, insurance companies and others, and many institutions we compete with have greater financial resources than us. We compete with these firms on the basis of investment performance, diversity of products, distribution capability, scope and quality of services, reputation and the ability to develop new investment strategies and products to meet the changing needs of investors. In addition, our actively managed investment strategies compete not only against other active strategies, but also against similarly positioned index strategies.. The continuing shift in market demand toward index funds and other passive strategies reduces opportunities for active managers and may accelerate fee compression. In the event that competitors charge lower fees for substantially similar products, we may be forced to compete on the basis of price in order to attract and retain customers. In order to maintain our current fee structure in a competitive environment, we must be able to provide clients with investment returns and service that will encourage them to pay our fees. To the extent that current or potential clients decide to invest in products sponsored by our competitors, the sales of our products as well as our market share, revenue and net income could decline.. The inability to access clients through third-party intermediaries could have a material adverse effect on our business.. In recent years, a significant portion of the growth in the assets we manage has been from assets attributable to the distribution of our products through third-party intermediaries. Our ability to distribute our funds is highly dependent on access to the client bases and product platforms of international, national and regional securities firms, banks, insurance companies, defined contribution plan administrators and other intermediaries, which generally offer competing investment products that could limit the distribution of our products. In addition, our separate account business and subadvisory and model delivery services depend in part on recommendations by consultants, financial planners and other professional advisors, as well as our existing clients.. The structure and terms of the distribution arrangements with intermediaries, including fees or rebates paid by us or our funds to intermediaries to assist with distribution efforts and the ability of our funds to participate in these intermediary platforms, are subject to changes driven by market competition and regulatory developments. Our existing relationships with third-party intermediaries and access to new intermediaries could be adversely affected by recent consolidation within the financial services industry. Consolidation may result in increased distribution costs, a reduction in the number of third parties distributing our investment products or increased competition to access third-party distribution channels. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain access to these channels. Loss of any of these third-party distribution channels, or changes to their structure and terms, or any reduction in our ability to access clients and investors through existing and new distribution channels, could adversely affect our business.. The growth of our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to manage the costs associated with the expansion of our business.. Our growth strategy continues to involve diversifying our investment management business to include products and services outside of investments in U.S. real estate securities. As part of the implementation of our strategy, we have emphasized the development of broader real assets strategies, including global listed infrastructure, commodities, and natural resource equities, and have expanded our geographical presence outside the U.S. As a result, our fixed costs and other expenses have increased to support the development of new strategies and products and to enhance our infrastructure, including additional office space, increased travel and technology and compliance resources. The success of our business strategy and future growth is contingent upon our ability to continue to support the development and implementation of new strategies and products and our ability to successfully manage multiple offices and navigate legal and regulatory systems both. 7. domestically and internationally. In the future, we may not have sufficient resources to adequately support growth in this manner.. Our clients may withdraw or reduce the amount of assets we manage or otherwise change the terms of our relationship which could have an adverse impact on our revenue.. Our institutional clients, and firms with which we have strategic alliances, may terminate their relationship with us, reduce the amount of assets we manage, shift their funds to other types of accounts with different fee structures, or renegotiate the fees we charge them for any number of reasons, including investment performance, redemptions by beneficial owners of funds we manage or subadvise, changes in prevailing interest rates and financial market performance. Certain investors in the funds that we manage hold their shares indirectly through platforms sponsored by financial institutions that have the authority to make investment and asset allocation decisions on behalf of such shareholders. Decisions by investors to redeem assets may require selling investments at a disadvantageous time or price which could negatively affect the value of our assets under management. In a declining market or in conditions of poor relative or absolute performance, the pace of redemptions and withdrawals and the loss of institutional and individual separate account clients could accelerate. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our revenue.. Limitations on our ability to utilize leverage in the closed-end funds we sponsor could reduce our assets under management and revenue.. Certain of the closed-end funds sponsored by us utilize leverage in the form of bank financing, which in the aggregate amounted to approximately $2.3 billion as of December 31, 2017. To the extent any closed-end fund sponsored by us elects or is required by regulation or the terms of its bank financing to reduce leverage, such fund may need to liquidate its investments. Reducing leverage or liquidating investments during adverse market conditions could reduce the Company's assets under management and revenue.. We could incur financial losses, reputational harm, and regulatory penalties if we fail to implement effective information security policies and procedures.. We are dependent on the effectiveness of our information security policies and procedures to protect our network and telecommunications systems and the data that reside in or are transmitted through such systems. As part of our normal operations, we maintain and transmit confidential information about our employees and clients' portfolios as well as proprietary information relating to our business operations. We maintain a system of internal controls designed to provide reasonable assurance that fraudulent activity, including misappropriation of Company assets, fraudulent financial reporting, and unauthorized access to sensitive or confidential information is either prevented or timely detected and remediated. However, our technology systems may still be vulnerable to unauthorized access or may be corrupted by cyber attacks, computer viruses or other malicious software code, or authorized persons could inadvertently or intentionally release confidential or proprietary information. The nature of these threats is constantly evolving and becoming increasingly sophisticated. Although we take precautions to password protect and encrypt our mobile electronic devices, if such devices are stolen, misplaced or left unattended, they may become vulnerable to hacking or other unauthorized use, creating a possible security risk.. Breach or other failure of our technology systems, including those of third parties with whom we do business, could result in the loss of valuable information, liability for stolen assets or information, remediation costs to repair damage caused by the incident, additional security costs to mitigate against future incidents and litigation costs resulting from the incident. Moreover, loss of confidential client information could harm our reputation, result in the termination of contracts by our existing clients and subject us to liability under laws that protect confidential personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenues. In the past, we have not maintained insurance coverage that specifically protected against information security breaches, including cyber breaches, and had minimal coverage under our other insurance policies. To help mitigate against any potential losses in the future, we purchased a cyber security insurance policy covering the period from December 31, 2017 to December 31, 2018 and anticipate renewing the policy for subsequent periods. However, insurance and other safeguards may only partially reimburse us for our losses, if at all, and if a claim is successful and exceeds or is not covered by our insurance policy, we may be required to pay a substantial amount in respect of such successful claim.. Failure to maintain adequate business continuity plans could have a material adverse effect on the Company and its products.. Significant portions of our business operations and those of our critical third-party service providers are concentrated in a few geographic areas, including New York and New Jersey. Critical operations that are geographically concentrated in New York include portfolio management, trading operations, information technology, investment administration, and portfolio. 8. accounting services for the Company's products and services. Should we, or any of our critical service providers, experience a significant local or regional disaster or other significant business disruption, our ability to remain operational will depend in part on the safety and availability of our personnel, our office facilities, and the proper functioning of our network, telecommunication and other related systems and operations. We have backup systems and contingency plans, but we cannot ensure that they will be adequate in all circumstances that could arise or that material interruptions and disruptions will not occur. In addition, we rely to varying degrees on outside vendors for disaster recovery support, and we cannot ensure that these vendors will be able to perform in an adequate and timely manner. Failure by us, or any of our critical service providers, to maintain up to date business continuity plans, including system backup facilities, would impede our ability to operate in the event of a significant business disruption, which could result in financial losses to the Company and our clients and investors.. We could experience loss of client relationships if our reputation is harmed.. Our reputation is important to the success of our business. We believe that the Cohen & Steers brand has been, and continues to be, well received globally both in our industry and with our clients, reflecting the fact that our brand, like our business, is based in part on trust and confidence. Our reputation may be harmed by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, poor investment performance, the dissemination by current or former clients of unfavorable opinions relating to our services, and the imposition of legal or regulatory sanctions or penalties in connection with our business activities. If our reputation is harmed, existing clients and investors may reduce amounts held in, or withdraw entirely from, funds or accounts that we manage, or funds or accounts may terminate their relationship with us. In addition, reputational harm may cause us to lose current employees and we may be unable to attract new ones with similar qualifications or skills which could negatively affect our operations. If we fail to address, or appear to fail to address, successfully and promptly the underlying causes of any reputational harm, we may be unsuccessful in repairing any harm to our reputation and our future business prospects would likely be affected. The loss of client relationships could reduce our assets under management, revenue and earnings.. The failure of a key vendor to fulfill its obligations to the Company could have a material adverse effect on the Company and its products.. We depend on a number of key vendors for various fund administration, fund accounting, custody and transfer agent services, information technology services, market data, and other operational needs. The failure or inability of the Company to provide backup for key services or the failure of any key vendor to fulfill its obligations could lead to operational issues for the Company and certain of its products, which could result in financial losses for the Company and its clients.. Risks Related to our Common Stock. A significant portion of our common stock is owned by our Chairman and our Chief Executive Officer, which may limit the ability of other stockholders to influence the affairs of the Company.. Our Chairman and our Chief Executive Officer beneficially owned approximately 49% of our common stock as of December 31, 2017. As long as our Chairman and our Chief Executive Officer own a significant portion of our common stock, they may have the ability to significantly influence, among other things:. • the election of the members of our board of directors, thereby controlling the management and affairs of the Company;. • the outcome of matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders; and. • any unsolicited acquisition of us and, consequently, adversely affect the market price of our common stock or prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium on their shares.. The interests of our Chairman and our Chief Executive Officer may differ from those of other stockholders in instances where, for example, management compensation is being determined or where an unsolicited acquisition of us could result in a change in our management. The concentration of beneficial ownership in our Chairman and our Chief Executive Officer may limit the ability of our other stockholders to influence the affairs of the Company.. A sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, and the issuance of additional shares will dilute your percentage ownership in the Company.. A sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sale may occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our Chairman and our Chief Executive Officer, who beneficially owned, in the aggregate, 22,645,719 shares of our common stock as of December 31, 2017, may sell shares of. 9. our common stock in the open market, subject to any restrictions imposed by U.S. federal securities laws on sales by affiliates.. In addition, in connection with our initial public offering in 2004, we entered into a Registration Rights Agreement with our Chairman and our Chief Executive Officer and certain of their affiliates which requires us to register under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, shares of our common stock (and other securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for shares of common stock) held by them under certain circumstances. In August 2015, we filed a Registration Statement on Form S-3, as amended, covering (i) the resale of up to an aggregate of 23,579,791 shares owned by our Chairman and our Chief Executive Officer and certain of their affiliates and (ii) the offer and sale of up to 10,000,000 shares by us to the public. The sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and any additional shares that we issue will dilute your percentage ownership in the Company.. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may delay or prevent a change in control of us, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock.. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain certain anti-takeover provisions that could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third-party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of the Company without negotiating with our board of directors. Such provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for the Company's common stock. Certain of these provisions allow the Company to issue preferred stock with rights more senior to those of our common stock, impose various procedural and other requirements that could make it more difficult for stockholders to effect certain corporate actions, and set forth rules about how stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at annual meetings.. We believe these provisions protect our stockholders from coercive or other unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors and by providing our board of directors with more time to assess acquisition proposals. However, these provisions apply even if an acquisition proposal may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could have the effect of delaying or preventing an acquisition. In the event that our board of directors determines that a potential business combination transaction would be beneficial to the Company and its stockholders, such stockholders may elect to sell their shares in the Company and the trading price of our common stock could decrease.. Regulatory and Legal Risks. We may be adversely impacted by legal and regulatory changes in the U.S. and internationally.. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to new regulations and revisions to, and evolving interpretations of, existing regulations in the U.S. and internationally. In recent years, regulators in the U.S. and abroad have increased oversight of the financial industry, which may result in regulation that increases the Company's cost of conducting its business or limit or change the Company's current or prospective business. Some of the newly adopted and proposed regulations are focused directly on the investment management industry, while others are more broadly focused, but impact our industry.. In the U.S., the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax Act) was enacted on December 22, 2017. The Tax Act, among other things, imposed a one-time tax on deemed repatriated accumulated earnings and profits of our foreign subsidiaries, moved from the current system of worldwide taxation to a territorial system and reduced the statutory corporate tax rate to 21%.  As a result of these changes, in the fourth quarter of 2017, the Company recorded a transition tax attributable to the shift in tax regimes and also remeasured its deferred and other tax balances using enacted tax rates that will be in effect when such items are expected to reverse. Furthermore, additional guidance and changes may be issued that may have a direct effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. In 2016, the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) began introducing changes to definitions and rules relating to fiduciaries serving holders of qualified retirement accounts. Full implementation has been delayed, and may be further delayed, during which time additional revisions may be made to the definitions and rules relating to fiduciaries. If adopted as currently proposed, the DOL's changes may materially impact how advice can be provided to retirement account holders in 401(k) plans, individual retirement accounts and other qualified retirement programs. We may need to modify our interactions or limit distribution to retirement plans. In addition, our revenues and expenses may be adversely affected by the new rule adopted in 2016 by the SEC to address liquidity risk management by registered open-end funds. These rules could limit investment opportunities for certain funds we manage, impact flows, and increase our expenses.. 10. Outside the U.S., rules and regulations under MiFID II and MiFIR became effective on January 3, 2018. These have had and will continue to have direct and indirect effects on our operations in the European Economic Area, including increased costs for investment research and increased compliance, disclosure, reporting, and other obligations, which could impact our ability to operate in these markets.. In May 2018, the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) will become effective. The primary objectives of GDPR are to give citizens control of their personal data and to simplify the regulatory environment for international business by unifying data protection regulation in the European Union. Compliance with the stringent rules under GDPR will require an extensive review of all of our global data processing systems. Failure to comply with GDPR could result in fines up to the higher of 20 million Euros or 4% of annual global revenues.. The decision of the U.K. to exit from the European Union following the June 2016 vote on the matter (referred to as Brexit) may disrupt our business operations, including our reported financial results and the liquidity and value of our investments. Brexit has caused significant geo-political and legal uncertainty and market volatility in the U.K. and elsewhere, which may continue during the Brexit negotiation process. Depending on the outcome of these negotiations, CSUK's ability to market its services or serve as a distributor of financial products within the European Economic Area, as well as the ability of our EU-domiciled funds to be marketed in the U.K. could be restricted temporarily or in the long term.. Although the full extent of the foregoing regulatory changes is still unclear, they may affect our business operations and increase our operating expenses.. Our involvement in legal proceedings could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Many aspects of our business involve risks of legal liability. Claims against us may arise in the ordinary course of business, including employment-related claims, and from time to time, we may receive subpoenas or other requests for information from various U.S. and non-U.S. governmental and regulatory authorities and third parties in connection with certain industry-wide, company-specific or other investigations or proceedings. In addition, certain of the funds that the Company manages may become subject to lawsuits, any of which could potentially harm the investment returns of the applicable fund.. We carry insurance in amounts and under terms that we believe are appropriate to cover potential liabilities related to litigation. However, we cannot guarantee that our insurance will cover all liabilities and losses to which we may be exposed, or that our insurance policies will continue to be available at acceptable terms and fees. As our insurance policies are due for renewal, we may need to assume higher deductibles or pay higher premiums, which would increase our expenses and reduce our net income.. The tax treatment of certain of our funds involves the interpretation of complex provisions of U.S. federal income tax law for which no precedent may be available and may be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative change and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis.. The U.S. federal income tax treatment of certain of our funds depends in some instances on determinations of fact and interpretations of complex provisions of U.S. federal income tax law for which no clear precedent or authority may be available. U.S. federal income tax rules are constantly under review by the IRS and the U.S. Department of the Treasury, frequently resulting in revised interpretations of established concepts, statutory changes, revisions to regulations and other modifications and interpretations. Recent and ongoing changes to U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof could cause us to change our investments and commitments, affect the tax considerations of an investment in us and change the character or treatment of portions of our income. In addition, the Company may be required to make certain assumptions when electing a particular tax treatment. It is possible that the IRS could assert successfully that the assumptions made by us do not satisfy the technical requirements of the Internal Revenue Code and/or Treasury Regulations and could require items of income, gain, deduction, loss or credit, including interest deductions, be adjusted, reallocated or disallowed in a manner that adversely affects us and our clients.. 11"
