[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. Set forth below are the risks and uncertainties that we believe are material to stockholders but are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us that we currently deem immaterial or that generally apply to all businesses also may adversely impact our business. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flow and liquidity could be materially adversely affected. Some statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including statements in the following risk factors, constitute forward-looking statements. Please refer to the section entitled \"Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements\" at the beginning of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Risks Related to Our Manager and Conflicts of Interests. We depend upon our Manager, Colony NorthStar and their key personnel for our success. The loss of or the inability to obtain key investment professionals at our Manager, Colony NorthStar or their affiliates, or limits on or the loss of Colony NorthStar's support to us or our Manager, could delay or hinder implementation of our investment strategy. We may not find a suitable replacement for our Manager if the Management Agreement is terminated.. Our ability to achieve our investment objectives depends in substantial part upon the performance of our Manager in the origination, acquisition and management of our investments, including the determination of any financing arrangements, as well as the performance of the third-party servicers (including any affiliated Colony NorthStar servicer) of our real estate debt investments. Subject to investment, leverage and other guidelines or policies adopted by the Board of Directors, our Manager has discretion regarding the implementation of our investment and operating policies and strategies. Accordingly, we believe that our success will depend significantly upon the experience, skill, resources, relationships and contacts of the executive officers and key personnel of our Manager, Colony NorthStar and their affiliates. Executive officers and key personnel of our Manager and Colony NorthStar will evaluate, negotiate, close and monitor our investments; therefore, our success will depend on their continued service. We cannot assure stockholders that such key personnel will continue to be associated with our Manager, Colony NorthStar or their affiliates in the future. The departure of any of these persons could have a material adverse effect on our performance and we can provide no assurance that our Manager, Colony NorthStar or their affiliates could attract other highly skilled professionals.. Neither our Manager nor Colony NorthStar is obligated to dedicate any specific personnel exclusively to us, nor are they or their personnel obligated to dedicate any specific portion of their time to the management of our business. As a result, we cannot provide any assurances regarding the amount of time our Manager or Colony NorthStar will dedicate to the management of our business. Moreover, each of our officers and non-independent directors is also an employee of our Manager, Colony NorthStar or one of their affiliates, has significant responsibilities for other investment vehicles currently managed by Colony NorthStar or its affiliates, and may not always be able to devote sufficient time to the management of our business. Consequently, we may not receive the level of support and assistance that we otherwise might receive if we were internally managed.. Uncertainty regarding business events and operations at our Manager, Colony NorthStar and their affiliates may have an adverse effect on us. These uncertainties could disrupt our business, and cause clients and others that deal with us or our Manager to seek to change existing business relationships, cease doing business with us or our Manager or cause potential new clients to delay doing or elect not to do business with us.. In addition, we can offer no assurance that our Manager will remain our investment manager or that we will continue to have access to our Manager's and Colony NorthStar's officers and key personnel. The current term of the Management Agreement will extend to January 31, 2021, the third anniversary of the completion of the Combination and will be automatically renewed for a one-year term each anniversary thereafter; provided, however, that our Manager may terminate the Management Agreement annually upon 180 days' prior notice following the expiration of the initial three-year term or any subsequent renewal term. If the Management Agreement is terminated and no suitable replacement manager is found to manage us, we may not be able to execute our business plan.. There are various conflicts of interest in our relationship with our Manager, Colony NorthStar and their affiliates, which could result in decisions which are not in the best interest of our stockholders.. We are subject to conflicts of interest arising out of our relationship with our Manager, Colony NorthStar and their affiliates. We rely on our Manager's or its affiliates' executive officers and investment professionals to identify suitable investment opportunities for our Company. These executive officers and investment professionals may also be executive officers, directors and managers of Colony NorthStar and its affiliates, including closed-end or open-end investment funds, vehicles (including public non-traded real estate investment trusts, registered investment companies and externally managed public companies), accounts, products and/or other similar arrangements sponsored, branded, advised and/or managed by Colony NorthStar or any of its affiliates, in existence or subsequently established (including any related successor funds, alternative vehicles, supplemental capital vehicles, co-investment vehicles and. 16. Table of Contents. other entities formed and managed in connection with Colony NorthStar's investment management activities) (collectively, the \"Managed Companies\"). As a result, those executive officers and investment professionals owe duties to each of these entities, their members and limited partners and investors, which duties may from time-to-time conflict with the duties that they owe to us and our stockholders.. The Manager and its affiliates, including Colony NorthStar, and their respective officers, directors, employees and personnel may engage in business opportunities that are the same or similar to our activities and provide investment advisory services to others with investment objectives or policies that are similar to ours, including advising Managed Companies. Therefore, many investment opportunities sourced by our Manager or its affiliates that are suitable for us may also be suitable for Colony NorthStar and/or other Managed Companies. In addition, the activities of other Managed Companies of Colony NorthStar or its affiliates could restrict our ability to pursue certain asset acquisitions or take other actions related to our business.. As of December 31, 2017, there were four other Managed Companies with investment objectives or guidelines that overlapped in part with ours and remain in their investment stage, with approximately $540 million of uncommitted capital availability in the aggregate as of December 31, 2017. Two of those Managed Companies are continuing to raise additional capital.. Furthermore, our Manager's associated persons who are responsible for allocating investment opportunities among clients must ensure that allocations comply with the requirements of the investment allocation policy, the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended (the \"Advisers Act\"), and other applicable laws and regulations, any exemptive relief provided to our Manager or its affiliates or clients, and the terms of each relevant client operating agreement or constituent documents, offering materials and/or advisory agreements. A dedicated mandate may cause certain Managed Companies to have priority over other Managed Companies (including us) with respect to specific investment opportunities. A preference for such a dedicated mandate may result in fewer of such investment opportunities being made available to us to the extent they are within our investment strategy.. If it is determined that an investment is most suitable for a particular client, the investment will be allocated to such client. If it is determined that an investment is equally suitable for two or more clients, then our Manager may allocate the investment among such clients on a rotational basis. In general, a rotational allocation methodology means that if a client has been previously allocated an investment as a result of the rotational process, it may be skipped in the rotation until all other clients for which a particular investment is equally suitable have been allocated an investment. However, there is no guarantee that additional investment opportunities will become available in the future. Subject to regulatory restrictions, SEC guidance and any exemptive orders obtained by one or more Managed Companies (as applicable), our Manager may deem it appropriate for us and one or more other Managed Companies to co-invest in an investment opportunity (based on available capital, among other relevant factors, to the extent required). To the extent that a Managed Company has significant available capital, the likelihood that we may co-invest in a particular asset with such fund could increase significantly. In addition, because affiliates of Colony NorthStar also manage the Managed Companies, and fees payable to such affiliates by the Managed Companies may be more advantageous than fees payable to our Manager, our interests in such investments may conflict with the interests of the Managed Companies, and our Manager or its affiliates may take actions that may not be most favorable to us, including in the event of a default or restructuring of assets subject to co-investment rights.. The decision of how any potential investment should be allocated among clients in many cases may be a matter of highly subjective judgment, which will be made by our Manager in its sole discretion. Stockholders may not agree with the determination, and such determination could have an adverse effect on our investment strategy. Our right to participate in the investment allocation process described above will terminate once we are no longer advised by our Manager or its affiliates.. In addition, subject to compliance with the Advisers Act, and the rules promulgated thereunder, we may enter into principal transactions with our Manager or its affiliates or cross-transactions with other Managed Companies. For certain cross-transactions, our Manager may receive a fee from us or another Managed Company and conflicts may exist. There is no guarantee that any such transactions will be favorable to us. Because our interests and the interests of Colony NorthStar and our Manager may not be aligned, we may face conflicts of interest that result in action or inaction that is detrimental to us.. Further, there are conflicts of interest that arise when our Manager makes expense allocation determinations, as well as in connection with any fees payable between us and our Manager. These fees and allocation determinations are sometimes based on estimates or judgments, which may not be correct and could result in our Manager's failure to allocate certain fees and costs to us appropriately.. In addition, as certain Managed Companies are, and other co-investment funds managed by Colony NorthStar and its affiliates in the future likely will be, closed-end funds with finite lives, such funds are expected to dispose of substantially all of the assets in their respective portfolios prior to dissolution. As a result, prior to such dissolutions, we may need to sell our interests in the co-investment assets before we otherwise would in order to avoid a potential conflict. Our decision to sell such interests will depend, among other things, on our ability to sell the interests at favorable prices or at all. It is also possible that our Manager or its affiliates, who also manage such funds, may sell such co-investment assets at times or prices that are not in the best interests of us or our stockholders. In. 17. Table of Contents. addition, to the extent that such funds dispose of co-investment assets that are qualifying assets, we may be required to purchase additional qualifying assets (subject to the availability of capital at favorable prices or at all) or sell non-qualifying assets at inopportune times or prices in order to maintain our qualification as a REIT and our exemption from registration under the Investment Company Act. Even if our interests are not in conflict with those of funds with co-investment rights, we will not realize the full economic benefits of the investment. If any of the foregoing were to occur, our Manager's ability to operate our business in a manner consistent with our business strategy could be hindered materially, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. Our Manager and its affiliates receive fees in connection with the management of our investments regardless of their quality or performance. As a result, our Manager may be incentivized to allocate investments that have a greater cost to increase the amount of fees payable to them.. Our Manager and its affiliates receive fees in connection with the management of our investments regardless of their quality or performance or the services provided. Our Manager's entitlement to base management fees, which are not based upon performance metrics or goals, could reduce its incentive to devote its time and effort to seeking loans and investments that provide attractive risk-adjusted returns for our portfolio. Consequently, we are required to pay our Manager base management fees in a particular period despite experiencing a net loss or a decline in the value of our portfolio during that period.. These management fees could influence the advice given to us by the key personnel of our Manager and its affiliates, including our Manager's investment committee. Among other matters, these compensation arrangements could affect their judgment with respect to:. <U+0095>   the continuation, renewal or enforcement of our agreements with our Manager and its affiliates, including the Management Agreement; and. <U+0095>   whether we seek approval to internalize our management, which may entail acquiring assets from Colony NorthStar (such as office space, furnishings and technology costs) and employing our Manager or its affiliates' professionals performing services for us for consideration that would be negotiated at that time and may result in these investment professionals receiving more compensation from us than they currently receive from our Manager or its affiliates.. In addition, our Manager has the ability to earn incentive fees each quarter based on our earnings, which may create an incentive for our Manager to invest in assets with higher yield potential, which are generally riskier or more speculative, or sell an asset prematurely for a gain, in an effort to increase our short-term net income and thereby increase the incentive fees to which it is entitled. If our interests and those of our Manager are not aligned, the execution of our business plan and our results of operations could be adversely affected, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Payment of these fees may also result in the immediate dilution of the value of stockholders' investment and reduces the amount of cash available for investment or distribution to stockholders.. Our ability to achieve our investment objectives and to pay distributions depends in substantial part upon the performance of our Manager and third-party servicers. Any adverse changes in our Manager and its affiliates' financial health, the public perception of our Manager, or our relationship with our Manager or its affiliates could hinder our operating performance and the return on stockholders' investment.. We depend on our Manager for the identification and origination or acquisition of investments and the management of our assets and operation of our day-to-day activities. If our Manager performs poorly and as a result is unable to originate and/or acquire our investments successfully, we may be unable to achieve our investment objectives or to pay distributions to stockholders at presently contemplated levels, if at all. Our Manager's platform may not be scalable if our business grows substantially, it may be unable to make significant investments on a timely basis or at reasonable costs, or its service providers may be strained by our growth, which could disrupt our business and operations. Similarly, if our third-party servicers (including any affiliated Colony NorthStar servicer) perform poorly, we may be unable to realize all cash flow associated with our real estate debt and debt-like investments.. Because Colony NorthStar is a publicly traded company, any negative reaction by the stock market reflected in its stock price or deterioration in the public perception of Colony NorthStar or other publicly traded Managed Companies, such as NorthStar Europe, could result in an adverse effect on our ability to acquire assets and obtain financing from third parties on favorable terms or at all. Any adverse changes in the financial condition of our Manager or its affiliates, including Colony NorthStar, or our relationship with them could hinder their ability to successfully manage our operations and our portfolio of investments.. 18. Table of Contents. Our Manager may not be successful, or there may be delays, in locating or allocating suitable investments, which could limit our ability to make distributions and lower the overall return on stockholders' investment.. Our Manager may not be successful in locating suitable investments on financially attractive terms. If we, through our Manager, are unable to find and allocate suitable investments promptly, we may hold the funds available for investment in an interest-bearing account or invest the proceeds in short-term assets. We expect that the income we earn on these temporary investments will not be substantial. In the event we are unable to timely locate suitable investments, we may be unable or limited in our ability to pay distributions, and we may not be able to meet our investment objectives. Further, the more money we have available for investment, the more difficult it will be to invest the funds promptly and on attractive terms. If our Manager is able to identify suitable investments, it may not be successful in consummating the investment, resulting in increased costs and diversion in the investment professionals' time, or if consummated, the returns on the investments may be below expectations.. Our Manager manages our portfolio pursuant to investment guidelines and is not required to seek the approval of our Board of Directors for each investment, financing, asset allocation or hedging decision made by it (subject to the net commitment thresholds set forth in our investment guidelines), which may result in riskier loans and investments and which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Our Manager is authorized to follow investment guidelines that provide it with broad discretion in investment, financing, asset allocation and hedging decisions to the extent, generally, that any such investment contemplates a total net commitment by the Company OP of less than 3% of the Company OP's net equity. Our investment guidelines may be changed at any time with the consent of our Board of Directors, but without the consent of our stockholders. Our Board of Directors will periodically review our investment guidelines and our loan and investment portfolio but is not required to review and approve in advance all of our proposed loans and investments or our Manager's financing, asset allocation or hedging decisions, subject to the net commitment thresholds set forth in our investment guidelines. Subject to maintaining our REIT qualification and our exclusion from registration under the Investment Company Act, our Manager has latitude within the investment guidelines in determining the types of loans and investments it makes for us and how such loans and investments are financed or hedged and there are no limits on geographic or industry concentration, which could result in investment returns that are substantially below expectations or that result in losses, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Colony NorthStar and/or our Manager may revise our investment allocation policy and may in the future change then-existing, or adopt additional, conflicts of interest resolution policies and procedures designed to support the fair and equitable allocation of investments and to prevent the preferential allocation of investment opportunities among entities with overlapping investment objectives. The result of such a revision to the investment allocation policy may, among other things, be to increase the number of parties who have the right to participate in investment opportunities sourced by our Manager and its affiliates and/or its partners, thereby reducing the number of investment opportunities available to us. The investment allocation policy may not be materially amended in any manner that is reasonably likely to be adverse to us unless such amendment has been approved by a majority of our independent directors. Material changes to the investment allocation policy will be disclosed to clients and in public filings with the SEC, as appropriate. Our independent directors will periodically review our Manager's and Colony NorthStar's compliance with these conflicts of interest and allocation provisions.. The Management Agreement with our Manager was negotiated among related parties and may not be as favorable to us as if it had been negotiated with an unaffiliated third party and may be costly and difficult to terminate.. Certain of our executive officers and directors are executives of Colony NorthStar. The Management Agreement was negotiated among related parties and its terms, including the fees to be paid to our Manager and its affiliates for services they provide for us were not determined on an arm's length basis. Subject to certain limitations and exceptions, we also reimburse our Manager for both direct expenses as well as indirect costs, including our allocable share of personnel and employment costs of our Manager and its affiliates, which may include certain executive officers and non-investment personnel of our Manager and its affiliates, as well as expenses related to any office or office facilities, technology, travel and other general and administrative costs and expenses. As a result, the fees and reimbursements may be in excess of amounts that we would otherwise pay to third parties for such services.. Termination of the Management Agreement without cause will be difficult and costly. We may elect not to renew the Management Agreement upon the expiration of the initial three-year term or any subsequent renewal term by providing at least 180 days' prior written notice to our Manager only if there has been an affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of our independent directors then serving on our Board of Directors that (i) there has been unsatisfactory performance by our Manager that is materially detrimental to us or (ii) the compensation we pay to our Manager, in the form of base management fees and incentive fees, or the amount thereof, is unfair to us, subject to our Manager's right to prevent any termination due to unfair fees by accepting a reduction of management and/or incentive fees agreed to by at least two-thirds of our independent directors. Upon such a termination, or if we materially breach the Management Agreement and our Manager terminates the Management Agreement, the Management Agreement provides that we will be required to pay our Manager a termination fee, which is equal to three (3) times the sum of (x) the average annual base. 19. Table of Contents. management fee and (y) the average annual incentive fee, in each case earned by our Manager during the 24-month period immediately preceding the most recently completed calendar quarter prior to the date of termination. Additionally, upon termination of the Management Agreement for any reason, including for cause, we will be required to pay our Manager all accrued and unpaid fees and expense reimbursements earned prior to the date of termination.. To the extent permitted by law, our Manager maintains a contractual as opposed to a fiduciary relationship with us. Our Manager's liability is limited under the Management Agreement, and we have agreed to indemnify our Manager against certain liabilities.. Pursuant to the Management Agreement, our Manager will not assume any responsibility other than to render the services called for thereunder and will not be responsible for any action of our Board of Directors in following or declining to follow its advice or recommendations. To the extent permitted by law, our Manager maintains a contractual as opposed to a fiduciary relationship with us. Under the terms of the Management Agreement, our Manager and its affiliates, including their respective directors, members, officers, managers, employees, trustees, control persons, partners, stockholders and equityholders, will not be liable to us, any subsidiary of ours, our Board of Directors, our stockholders or any of our subsidiaries' stockholders, members or partners for acts or omissions performed in accordance with and pursuant to the Management Agreement, unless such acts or omissions constitute gross negligence, fraud, willful misconduct, bad faith or reckless disregard of their duties under the Management Agreement. We have agreed to indemnify our Manager and its affiliates, including their respective directors, members, officers, managers, employees, trustees, control persons, partners, stockholders and equityholders from and against any and all expenses, losses, damages, liabilities, demands, charges and claims of any nature, including reasonable legal fees and other expenses reasonably incurred in respect of, arising out of or in connection with our business and operations or any action taken or omitted by any such person in good faith by or on our behalf pursuant to authority granted by the Management Agreement, except where found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be attributable to the gross negligence, fraud, willful misconduct or bad faith by such person or the reckless disregard by such person of their duties under the Management Agreement. As a result, we could experience poor performance or losses for which our Manager would not be liable.. 20. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Our Company and Our Structure. We have no operating history and may not be able to operate our business successfully or generate sufficient revenue to make or sustain distributions to our stockholders.. We were organized in August 2017 and began operations in February 2018, following the closing of the Combination. We cannot assure you that we will be able to operate our business successfully or implement our operating policies and strategies as described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The results of our operations depend on several factors, including the availability of opportunities for the acquisition of our target assets, the level and volatility of interest rates, the availability of adequate short and long-term financing, conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions.. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of the Combination.. Our management will have to dedicate substantial effort to integrating the businesses of the CLNS OP Contributed Entities, the RED REIT Contributed Entities, NorthStar I and NorthStar II. These efforts may divert management's focus and resources from our business, corporate initiatives or strategic opportunities. In addition, the actual integration may result in additional and unforeseen expenses and delays and the anticipated benefits of the integration may not be realized. Actual growth and cost savings, if achieved, may be lower than what we expect and may take longer to achieve than anticipated. Difficulties associated with managing our large and complex portfolio could prevent us from realizing the anticipated benefits of the Combination and have a material adverse effect on our business. If we are not able to address integration challenges adequately, we may be unable to integrate successfully the operations of the CLNS OP Contributed Entities and the RED REIT Contributed Entities, NorthStar I and NorthStar II or to realize the anticipated benefits of the integration of the CLNS OP Contributed Entities, the RED REIT Contributed Entities, NorthStar I and NorthStar II.. We expect to incur significant costs in connection with the integration of the CLNS OP Contributed Entities, the RED REIT Contributed Entities, NorthStar I and NorthStar II.. We expect to incur significant costs in connection with integrating the portfolios of the CLNS OP Contributed Entities, the RED REIT Contributed Entities, NorthStar I and NorthStar II, including unanticipated costs and the assumption of known and unknown liabilities. While we have assumed that a certain level of transaction and integration expenses will be incurred, there are factors beyond our control that could affect the total amount or the timing of our integration expenses. Many of the expenses that will be incurred, by their nature, are difficult to estimate accurately at the present time. Although NorthStar I and NorthStar II expect that the elimination of duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of their businesses, should allow us to offset these incremental expenses over time, the net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all.. We have assumed the liabilities and obligations of the CLNS OP Contributed Entities and the RED REIT Contributed Entities, NorthStar I and NorthStar II. These liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business to the extent the CLNS OP Contributed Entities and the RED REIT Contributed Entities, NorthStar I or NorthStar II have not identified such liabilities or have underestimated the nature, amount or significance, based on amount or otherwise, of such liabilities.. We have not established a minimum distribution payment level, and we cannot assure you of our ability to pay distributions in the future.. We are generally required to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income each year for us to qualify as a REIT under the Code, which requirement we currently intend to satisfy through monthly distributions of all or substantially all of our REIT taxable income in such year, subject to certain adjustments. We have not established a minimum distribution payment level, and our ability to make distributions may be materially and adversely affected by a number of factors, including the risk factors described herein. Distributions to our stockholders, if any, will be authorized by our Board of Directors in its sole discretion and declared by us out of funds legally available therefor and will be dependent upon a number of factors, including our targeted distribution rate, access to cash in the capital markets and other financing sources, historical and projected results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, our view of our ability to realize gains in the future through appreciation in the value of our assets, general economic conditions and economic conditions that more specifically impact our business or prospects, our financing covenants, maintenance of our REIT qualification, applicable provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law (the \"MGCL\") and such other factors as our Board of Directors deems relevant.. We believe that a change in any one of the following factors could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows and impair our ability to make distributions to our stockholders:. <U+0095>   our ability to make attractive investments;. 21. Table of Contents. <U+0095>   margin calls or other expenses that reduce our cash flows;. <U+0095>   defaults or prepayments in our investment portfolio or decreases in the value of our investment portfolio; and. <U+0095>   the fact that anticipated operating expense levels may not prove accurate, as actual results may vary from estimates.. As a result, no assurance can be given that we will be able to make distributions to our stockholders at any time in the future or that the level of any distributions we do make to our stockholders will achieve a market yield or increase or even be maintained over time, any of which could materially and adversely affect us.. In addition, distributions out of our current earnings and profits that we make to our stockholders will generally be taxable to our stockholders as ordinary income. However, a portion of our distributions may be designated by us as (i) \"capital gain dividends\" to the extent that they are attributable to capital gain income recognized by us, (ii) \"qualified dividend income,\" or (iii) may constitute a return of capital to the extent that they exceed our current earnings and profits as determined for U.S. federal income tax purposes. A return of capital is not taxable, but has the effect of reducing the basis of a stockholder's investment in our Class A common stock.. Stockholders have limited control over changes in our policies and operations, which increases the uncertainty and risks they face as stockholders.. Our Board of Directors determines our major policies, including our policies regarding growth, REIT qualification and distributions. Our Board of Directors may amend or revise these and other policies without a vote of the stockholders. We may change our investment policies without stockholder notice or consent, which could result in investments that are riskier or different than our current investments. Our Board of Directors' broad discretion in setting policies and stockholders' inability to exert control over those policies increases the uncertainty and risks stockholders face. Our Board of Directors' broad discretion in setting policies and stockholders' inability to exert control over those policies increases the uncertainty and risks stockholders face.. Certain provisions of Maryland law may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of us.. Certain provisions of the MGCL may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from acquiring our Company or of impeding a change of control under circumstances that otherwise could provide our Company's stockholders with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our Class A common stock, including:. <U+0095>   \"business combination\" provisions that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between an \"interested stockholder\" (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our Company's outstanding shares of voting stock or an affiliate or associate of the corporation who, at any time within the two-year period immediately prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the then-outstanding stock of the corporation) or an affiliate of any interested stockholder and our Company for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder and thereafter imposes two super-majority stockholder voting requirements on these combinations; and. <U+0095>   \"control share\" provisions that provide that holders of \"control shares\" of our Company (defined as outstanding voting shares of stock that, if aggregated with all other shares of stock owned by the acquiror or in respect of which the acquirer is able to exercise or direct the exercise of voting power (except solely by virtue of a revocable proxy), would entitle the acquiror to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a \"control share acquisition\" (defined as the acquisition of issued and outstanding \"control shares\") have no voting rights except to the extent approved by the affirmative vote of the holders entitled to cast two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares.. In accordance with Maryland Business Combination Act our Board of Directors has exempted any business combinations between us and any person, provided that any such business combination is first approved by our Board of Directors. Consequently, the five-year prohibition and the super-majority vote requirements will not apply to any future business combinations between us and any of our interested stockholders (or their affiliates) that are first approved by our Board of Directors, including any future business combination with Company OP or any current or future affiliates of Company OP. Our bylaws contain a provision exempting us from the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act. There can be no assurance that these resolutions or exemptions will not be amended or eliminated at any time in the future.. Additionally, Title 3, Subtitle 8 of the MGCL permits our Board of Directors, without stockholder approval and regardless of what currently is provided in our charter and our bylaws, to implement certain takeover defenses, such as a classified board, some of which we do not have.. 22. Table of Contents. Ownership limitations may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in our control that might involve a premium price for our Class A common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders.. In order for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT under the Code, not more than 50% of the value of the outstanding shares of our capital stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Code to include certain entities) during the last half of a taxable year. Our charter, with certain exceptions, authorizes our Board of Directors to take the actions that are necessary or appropriate to preserve our qualification as a REIT. Unless exempted by our Board of Directors, no person may actually or constructively own more than 9.8% of the aggregate of the outstanding shares of our capital stock (as defined in our charter) by value or 9.8% of the aggregate of the outstanding shares of our common stock (as defined in our charter) by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive. Our Board of Directors, in its sole discretion, may exempt (prospectively or retroactively) a person from this limitation if it obtains such representations, covenants and undertakings as it deems appropriate to conclude that granting the exemption will not cause us to lose our status as a REIT. These ownership limitations in our charter are standard in REIT charters and are intended to provide added assurance of compliance with the tax law requirements, and to reduce administrative burdens. However, these ownership limits might also delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our Class A common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders or result in the transfer of shares acquired in excess of the ownership limits to a trust for the benefit of a charitable beneficiary and, as a result, the forfeiture by the acquirer of the benefits of owning the additional shares.. Our charter contains provisions that make removal of our directors difficult, which makes it more difficult for our stockholders to effect changes to our management and may prevent a change in control of our Company that is otherwise in the best interests of our stockholders.. Our charter provides that a director may be removed only for cause and then only by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast generally in the election of directors. Vacancies on our Board of Directors may be filled only by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors then in office, even if the remaining directors do not constitute a quorum, and directors elected to fill a vacancy will serve for the full term of the class of directors in which the vacancy occurred. These requirements make it more difficult for our stockholders to effect changes to our management by removing and replacing directors and may prevent a change in control of our company that is otherwise in the best interests of our stockholders.. Our charter permits our Board of Directors to issue stock with terms that may subordinate the rights of our Class A common stockholders or discourage a third party from acquiring us in a manner that could result in a premium price to stockholders.. Our Board of Directors may classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common stock, classify any unissued shares of our preferred stock, as applicable, and reclassify any previously classified but unissued shares of our preferred stock into other classes or series of stock and set the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends or other distributions, qualifications and terms and conditions of redemption of any such stock. Thus, our Board of Directors could authorize the issuance of preferred stock with priority as to distributions and amounts payable upon liquidation over the rights of the holders of our Class A common stock. Such preferred stock could also have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us, including an extraordinary transaction (such as a merger, tender offer or sale of all or substantially all of our assets) that might provide a premium price to holders of our Class A common stock. Additionally, our Board of Directors may amend our charter from time to time to increase or decrease the aggregate number of authorized shares of stock or the number of authorized shares of any class or series of stock without stockholder approval.. Our umbrella partnership real estate investment trust, or UPREIT, structure may result in potential conflicts of interest with members of our operating company whose interests may not be aligned with those of stockholders.. Members of our operating company have the right to vote on certain amendments to the limited liability company agreement, as well as on certain other matters. Persons holding such voting rights may exercise them in a manner that conflicts with the interests of our stockholders. As managing member of our operating company, we are obligated to act in a manner that is in the best interest of our operating company. Circumstances may arise in the future when the interests of members in our operating company may conflict with the interests of our stockholders. These conflicts may be resolved in a manner stockholders do not believe are in their best interests.. Failure to obtain, maintain or renew required licenses and authorizations necessary to operate our mortgage-related activities may have a material adverse effect us.. We and our Manager are required to obtain, maintain or renew certain licenses and authorizations (including \"doing business\" authorizations and licenses to act as a commercial mortgage lender) from U.S. federal or state governmental authorities, government sponsored entities or similar bodies in connection with some or all of our mortgage-related activities. There is no assurance that we or our Manager will be able to obtain, maintain or renew any or all of the licenses and authorizations that we require or that we or our Manager will avoid experiencing significant delays in connection therewith. The failure of our Company or our Manager to obtain,. 23. Table of Contents. maintain or renew licenses will restrict our options and ability to engage in desired activities, and could subject us to fines, suspensions, terminations and various other adverse actions if it is determined that we or our Manager have engaged without the requisite licenses or authorizations in activities that required a license or authorization, which could have a material adverse effect on us.. If we are unable to implement and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting in the future, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and the market price of our Class A common stock could be negatively affected.. As a public company, we will be required to maintain internal controls over financial reporting and to report any material weaknesses in such internal controls. In addition, beginning with our second annual report on Form 10- K, we will be required to furnish a report by management on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Once we are no longer an emerging growth company, our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to formally attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting on an annual basis. The process of designing, implementing and testing the internal controls over financial reporting required to comply with this obligation is time consuming, costly and complicated. If we identify material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, if we are unable to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in a timely manner or to assert that our internal controls over financial reporting is effective or if, once we are no longer an emerging growth company, our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion as to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, and the market price of our Class A common stock could be negatively affected. We could also become subject to investigations by the stock exchange on which our securities are listed, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which could require additional financial and management resources.. Failure to implement effective information and cyber security policies, procedures and capabilities could disrupt our business and harm our results of operations.. Our business is highly dependent on communications and information systems of Colony NorthStar. We are dependent on the effectiveness of such information and cyber security policies, procedures and capabilities to protect our computer and telecommunications systems and the data that resides on or is transmitted through them. An externally caused information security incident, such as a hacker attack, virus or worm, or an internally caused issue, such as failure to control access to sensitive systems, could materially interrupt business operations or cause disclosure or modification of sensitive or confidential information and could result in material financial loss, loss of competitive position, regulatory actions, breach of contracts, reputational harm or legal liability.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" and we cannot be certain if the reduced reporting requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our Class A common stock less attractive to investors.. We are an \"emerging growth company\" as defined in Section 2(a) of the Securities Act, as modified by the JOBS Act. We may take advantage of exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies, including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We could be an emerging growth company for up to five years, although circumstances could cause us to lose that status earlier, including if we have more than $1.07 billion in annual gross revenues as of the end of our fiscal year, we have more than $700 million in market value of our stock held by non-affiliates as of the end of our second fiscal quarter or we issue more than $1.0 billion of non-convertible debt over a three-year period. We cannot predict if investors will find our Class A common stock less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our Class A common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our Class A common stock, and our per share trading price may be adversely affected and become more volatile.. We do not own the Colony NorthStar name, but have entered into a license agreement with an affiliate of Colony NorthStar granting us the right to use the Colony NorthStar name. Use of the name by other parties or the termination of our license agreement may harm our business.. Concurrently with the completion of the Combination, we entered into a license agreement pursuant to which we have a non-exclusive, royalty-free license to use the name \"Colony NorthStar.\" Under this agreement, we have a right to use the \"Colony NorthStar\" name as long as our Manager is affiliated with Colony NorthStar. Colony NorthStar will retain the right to continue using the \"Colony NorthStar\" name. We will further be unable to preclude Colony NorthStar from licensing or transferring the ownership of the \"Colony NorthStar\" name to third parties, some of whom may compete against us. Consequently, we will be unable to prevent any damage to goodwill that may occur as a result of the activities of Colony NorthStar or others. Furthermore, in the event the license agreement is terminated, we will be required to change our name and cease using the \"Colony NorthStar\" name. Any of these events could disrupt our recognition in the marketplace, damage any goodwill we may have generated and otherwise harm our business.. 24. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Investments. Our CRE debt, select equity and securities investments are subject to the risks typically associated with real estate.. Our CRE debt, select equity and securities investments are subject to the risks typically associated with real estate, including:. <U+0095>   tenant mix;. <U+0095>   real estate conditions, such as an oversupply of or a reduction in demand for real estate space in an area;. <U+0095>   lack of liquidity inherent in the nature of the assets;. <U+0095>   borrower/tenant/operator mix and the success of the borrower/tenant/operator business;. <U+0095>   success of tenant businesses;. <U+0095>   ability to collect interest/loan obligation/principal;. <U+0095>   property management decisions;. <U+0095>   property location, condition and design;. <U+0095>   competition from comparable types of properties;. <U+0095>   changes in laws that increase operating expenses or limit rents that may be charged;. <U+0095>   changes in national, regional or local economic conditions and/or specific industry segments, including the credit and securitization markets;. <U+0095>   declines in regional or local real estate values;. <U+0095>   declines in regional or local rental or occupancy rates;. <U+0095>   increases in interest rates, real estate tax rates and other operating expenses;. <U+0095>   compliance with environmental laws, including costs of remediation and liabilities associated with environmental conditions affecting properties;. <U+0095>   costs of remediation and liabilities associated with environmental conditions;. <U+0095>   the potential for uninsured or underinsured property losses;. <U+0095>   changes in governmental laws and regulations, including fiscal policies, zoning ordinances and environmental legislation and the related costs of compliance; and. <U+0095>   acts of God, terrorist attacks, social unrest and civil disturbances.. The value of each investment is affected significantly by its ability to generate cash flow and net income, which in turn depends on the amount of financing/interest payments, rental or other income that can be generated net of expenses required to be incurred with respect to the investment. Many expenses associated with properties (such as operating expenses and capital expenses) cannot be reduced when there is a reduction in income from the properties. Some of our CRE securities may be subject to the risk of first loss and therefore could be adversely affected by payment defaults, delinquencies and others of these risks.. These factors may have a material adverse effect on the value and the return that we can realize from our assets, as well as the ability of our borrowers to pay their loans and the ability of the borrowers on the underlying loans securing our securities to pay their loans.. The B-Notes that we may acquire may be subject to additional risks related to the privately negotiated structure and terms of the transaction, which may result in significant operating losses to us and may limit our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. We may acquire B-Notes. A B-Note is a mortgage loan typically (1) secured by a first mortgage on a single large commercial property or group of related properties (and therefore reflect the risks associated with significant concentration) and (2) subordinated to an A-Note secured by the same first mortgage on the same collateral. A privately negotiated intercreditor agreement between the holders of the A-Note and B-Note may restrict the rights of the B-Note holders. In particular, the intercreditor agreement may prohibit the B-Note holder from calling the loan, making modifications with respect to the loan or filing a bankruptcy petition without the consent of the A-Note holder. As a result, to the extent that we acquire B-Notes, the A-Note holder may take actions that we do not agree with and that are not in our stockholders' best interests.. In addition, because the rights of the B-Note holder are subordinated to the rights of the A-Note holder, the B-Note may be the first to incur loss if the loan does not perform and the collateral value diminishes. As a result, if a borrower defaults, there may not be sufficient funds remaining for B-Note holders after payment to the A-Note holders. If there are insufficient funds after payment to the A-Note holders, we could incur significant losses related to our B-Notes, which would result in operating losses for us and may limit our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. 25. Table of Contents. The mezzanine loan assets that we may acquire will involve greater risks of loss than senior loans secured by income-producing properties.. We may acquire mezzanine loans, which take the form of subordinated loans secured by second mortgages on the underlying property or loans secured by a pledge of the ownership interests of either the entity owning the property or a pledge of the ownership interests of the entity that owns the interest in the entity owning the property. These types of assets involve a higher degree of risk than long-term senior mortgage lending secured by income-producing real property, because the loan may become unsecured as a result of foreclosure by the senior lender. In addition, mezzanine loans may have higher loan-to-value ratios than conventional mortgage loans, resulting in less equity in the property and increasing the risk of loss of principal. If a borrower defaults on our mezzanine loan or debt senior to our loan, or in the event of a borrower bankruptcy, our mezzanine loan will be satisfied only after the senior debt is paid in full. Where debt senior to our loan exists, the presence of intercreditor arrangements between the holder of the mortgage loan and us, as the mezzanine lender, may limit our ability to amend our loan documents, assign our loans, accept prepayments, exercise our remedies and control decisions made in bankruptcy proceedings relating to borrowers. As a result, we may not recover some or all of our investment, which could result in losses. In addition, even if we are able to foreclose on the underlying collateral following a default on a mezzanine loan, we would be substituted for the defaulting borrower and, to the extent income generated on the underlying property is insufficient to meet outstanding debt obligations on the property, may need to commit substantial additional capital to stabilize the property and prevent additional defaults to lenders with existing liens on the property. Significant losses related to our mezzanine loans could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. Participating interests may not be available and, even if obtained, may not be realized.. In connection with the origination or acquisition of certain structured finance assets, subject to maintaining our qualification as a REIT, we may obtain participating interests, or equity \"kickers,\" in the owner of the property that entitle us to payments based upon a development's cash flow or profits or any increase in the value of the property that would be realized upon a refinancing or sale thereof. Competition for participating interests is dependent to a large degree upon market conditions. Participating interests are more difficult to obtain when real estate financing is available at relatively low interest rates. Participating interests are not insured or guaranteed by any governmental entity and are therefore subject to the general risks inherent in real estate investments. Therefore, even if we are successful in making investments that provide for participating interests, there can be no assurance that such interests will result in additional payments to us.. Any distressed loans or investments we make, or loans and investments that later become distressed, may subject us to losses and other risks relating to bankruptcy proceedings.. While our investment strategy focuses primarily on investments in \"performing\" real estate-related interests, our investment program may include making distressed investments from time to time (e.g., investments in defaulted, out-of-favor or distressed bank loans and debt securities) or may involve investments that become \"non-performing\" following our acquisition thereof. Certain of our investments may, therefore, include specific securities of companies that typically are highly leveraged, with significant burdens on cash flow and, therefore, involve a high degree of financial risk. During an economic downturn or recession, securities of financially troubled or operationally troubled issuers are more likely to go into default than securities of other issuers. Securities of financially troubled issuers and operationally troubled issuers are less liquid and more volatile than securities of companies not experiencing financial difficulties. The market prices of such securities are subject to erratic and abrupt market movements and the spread between bid and asked prices may be greater than normally expected. Investment in the securities of financially troubled issuers and operationally troubled issuers involves a high degree of credit and market risk.. In certain limited cases (e.g., in connection with a workout, restructuring and/or foreclosing proceedings involving one or more of our debt investments), the success of our investment strategy with respect thereto will depend, in part, on our ability to effectuate loan modifications and/or restructures. Identifying and implementing any such restructuring programs entails a high degree of uncertainty. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully identify and implement restructuring programs. Further, such modifications and/or restructuring may entail, among other things, a substantial reduction in the interest rate and a substantial writedown of the principal of such loan, debt securities or other interests. However, even if a restructuring were successfully accomplished, a risk exists that, upon maturity of such real estate loan, debt securities or other interests replacement \"takeout\" financing will not be available.. These financial difficulties may never be overcome and may cause borrowers to become subject to bankruptcy or other similar administrative proceedings. There is a possibility that we may incur substantial or total losses on our investments and in certain circumstances, become subject to certain additional potential liabilities that may exceed the value of our original investment therein. For example, under certain circumstances, a lender who has inappropriately exercised control over the management and policies of a debtor may have its claims subordinated or disallowed or may be found liable for damages suffered by parties as a result of such actions. In any reorganization or liquidation proceeding relating to our investments, we may lose our entire investment, may be. 26. Table of Contents. required to accept cash or securities with a value less than our original investment and/or may be required to accept payment over an extended period of time. In addition, under certain circumstances, payments to us and distributions by us to the stockholders may be reclaimed if any such payment or distribution is later determined to have been a fraudulent conveyance, preferential payment or similar transaction under applicable bankruptcy and insolvency laws. Furthermore, bankruptcy laws and similar laws applicable to administrative proceedings may delay our ability to realize on collateral for loan positions held by us or may adversely affect the priority of such loans through doctrines such as equitable subordination or may result in a restructure of the debt through principles such as the \"cramdown\" provisions of the bankruptcy laws.. Provisions for loan losses and impairment charges are difficult to estimate, particularly in a challenging economic environment and if they turn out to be incorrect, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely impacted.. In a challenging economic environment, we may experience an increase in provisions for loan losses and asset impairment charges, as borrowers may be unable to remain current in payments on loans and declining property values weaken our collateral. Our determination of provision for loan losses requires us to make certain estimates and judgments based on a number of factors, including projected cash flow from the collateral securing our CRE debt, structure, including the availability of reserves and recourse guarantees, likelihood of repayment in full at the maturity of a loan, potential for refinancing and expected market discount rates for varying property types, all of which remain uncertain and are subjective. Some of our investments have limited liquidity or are not publicly traded and so we estimate the fair value of these investments on a quarterly basis. Also, the analysis of the value or income-producing ability of commercial property is highly subjective. Our estimates and judgments may not be correct, particularly during challenging economic environments when market volatility may make it difficult to determine the fair value of certain of our assets and liabilities or the likelihood of repayment of loans we originate. Subsequent valuations and estimates, in light of factors then prevailing, may result in decreases in the values of our assets resulting in impairment charges or increases in loan loss provisions and therefore our results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make distributions to stockholders could be materially and adversely impacted.. Prepayment rates may adversely affect the value of our portfolio of assets.. Generally, our borrowers may repay their loans prior to their stated final maturities. In periods of declining interest rates and/or credit spreads, prepayment rates on loans generally increase. If general interest rates or credit spreads decline at the same time, the proceeds of such prepayments received during such periods are likely to be reinvested by us in assets yielding less than the yields on the assets that were prepaid. In addition, the value of our assets may be affected by prepayment rates on loans. If we originate or acquire mortgage-related securities or a pool of mortgage securities, we anticipate that the underlying mortgages will prepay at a projected rate generating an expected yield. If we purchase assets at a premium to par value, when borrowers prepay their loans faster than expected, the corresponding prepayments on the mortgage-related securities may reduce the expected yield on such securities because we will have to amortize the related premium on an accelerated basis. Conversely, if we purchase assets at a discount to par value, when borrowers prepay their loans slower than expected, the decrease in corresponding prepayments on the mortgage-related securities may reduce the expected yield on such securities because we will not be able to accrete the related discount as quickly as originally anticipated. In addition, as a result of the risk of prepayment, the market value of the prepaid assets may benefit less than other fixed income securities from declining interest rates.. Prepayment rates on loans may be affected by a number of factors including, but not limited to, the then-current level of interest rates and credit spreads, fluctuations in asset values, the availability of mortgage credit, the relative economic vitality of the area in which the related properties are located, the servicing of the loans, possible changes in tax laws, other opportunities for investment, and other economic, social, geographic, demographic and legal factors and other factors beyond our control. Consequently, such prepayment rates cannot be predicted with certainty and no strategy can completely insulate us from prepayment or other such risks.. We invest in preferred equity interests, which involve a greater risk than conventional senior, junior or mezzanine debt financing.. Our preferred equity investments involve a higher degree of risk than conventional debt financing due to a variety of factors, including their non-collateralized nature and subordinated ranking to other loans and liabilities of the entity in which such preferred equity is held. Accordingly, if the issuer defaults on our investment, we would only be able to proceed against such entity in accordance with the terms of the preferred security, and not against any property owned by such entity. Furthermore, in the event of bankruptcy or foreclosure, we would only be able to recoup our investment after all lenders to, and other creditors of, such entity are paid in full. As a result, we may lose all or a significant part of our investment, which could result in significant losses, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. 27. Table of Contents. We invest in commercial properties subject to net leases, which could subject us to losses.. We invest in commercial properties subject to net leases. Typically, net leases require the tenants to pay substantially all of the operating costs associated with the properties. As a result, the value of, and income from, investments in commercial properties subject to net leases will depend, in part, upon the ability of the applicable tenant to meet its obligations to maintain the property under the terms of the net lease. If a tenant fails or becomes unable to so maintain a property, we will be subject to all risks associated with owning the underlying real estate. Under many net leases, however, the owner of the property retains certain obligations with respect to the property, including, among other things, the responsibility for maintenance and repair of the property, to provide adequate parking, maintenance of common areas and compliance with other affirmative covenants in the lease. If we were to fail to meet any such obligations, the applicable tenant could abate rent or terminate the applicable lease, which could result in a loss of our capital invested in, and anticipated profits from, the property.. We expect that some commercial properties subject to net leases in which we invest generally will be occupied by a single tenant and, therefore, the success of these investments will be materially dependent on the financial stability of each such tenant. A default of any such tenant on its lease payments to us would cause us to lose the revenue from the property and cause us to have to find an alternative source of revenue to meet any mortgage payment and prevent a foreclosure if the property is subject to a mortgage. In the event of a default, we may experience delays in enforcing our rights as landlord and may incur substantial costs in protecting our investment and re-letting our property. If a lease is terminated, we may also incur significant losses to make the leased premises ready for another tenant and experience difficulty or a significant delay in re-leasing such property.. In addition, net leases typically have longer lease terms and, thus, there is an increased risk that contractual rental increases in future years will fail to result in fair market rental rates during those years.. We may acquire these investments through sale-leaseback transactions, which involve the purchase of a property and the leasing of such property back to the seller thereof. If we enter into a sale-leaseback transaction, our Manager will seek to structure any such sale-leaseback transaction such that the lease will be characterized as a \"true lease\" for U.S. federal income tax purposes, thereby allowing us to be treated as the owner of the property for U.S. federal income tax purposes. However, we cannot assure you that the Internal Revenue Service (the \"IRS\") will not challenge such characterization. In the event that any such sale-leaseback transaction is challenged and recharacterized as a financing transaction or loan for U.S. federal income tax purposes, deductions for depreciation and cost recovery relating to such property would be disallowed. If a sale-leaseback transaction were so recharacterized, we might fail to satisfy the REIT qualification \"asset tests\" or \"income tests\" and, consequently, lose our REIT status effective with the year of recharacterization. Alternatively, the amount of our REIT taxable income could be recalculated, which might also cause us to fail to meet the REIT distribution requirement for a taxable year.. We have investments in private equity real estate (\"PE\") funds, and there is no assurance these investments will achieve the returns expected upon initial execution of the respective investments.. The success of our PE investments in general is subject to a variety of risks, including, without limitation, risks related to: (i) the quality of the management of the portfolio funds in which we invest and the ability of such management to successfully select manage and dispose of investment opportunities; (ii) general economic conditions; and (iii) the ability of the portfolio funds and, if applicable, us, to liquidate investments on favorable terms or at all. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations include, but are not limited to, the possibility that: (a) the agreed upon net asset value (\"NAV\") does not necessarily reflect the fair value of the fund interests on such date and the current fair value could be materially different; (b) the actual amount of future capital commitments underlying all of the fund interests that will be called and funded by us could vary materially from our expectations; and (c) because, among other matters, the sponsors of the private equity funds, rather than us, will control the investments in those funds, we could lose some or all of our investment. Furthermore, the timing in which we will realize proceeds, if any, from our PE investments could differ materially from expectations and our actual yield could be substantially lower than our assumed yield. There can be no assurance that the management team of a portfolio fund or any successor will be able to operate the portfolio fund in accordance with our expectations or that we will be able to recover on our investments. In addition, investments in a real estate private equity fund generally will be illiquid and entail the payment of certain expenses, plus management fees and carried interest to the general partner or investment manager of the fund, which are in addition to the fees and expenses incurred directly by us. In certain cases, the general partner or investment manager of the fund may be Colony NorthStar. Such fees and expenses reduce our returns. Furthermore, we have and may continue to acquire PE investments as co-investments with Colony NorthStar or other Managed Companies, which increases the likelihood that our Manager could have conflicts of interest with that company.. We invest in CRE securities, including CMBS and collateralized debt obligations (\"CDOs\"), which entail certain heightened risks and are subject to losses.. We invest in a variety of CRE securities, including CMBS, CDOs and other subordinate securities. The market for CRE securities is dependent upon liquidity for refinancing and may be negatively impacted by a slowdown in new issuance. For example, the equity interests of CDOs are illiquid and often must be held by a REIT. CRE securities such as CMBS may be subject to particular risks, including lack of standardized terms and payment of all or substantially all of the principal only at maturity rather than regular amortization of principal. The value of CRE securities may change due to interest rates, credit spreads, as well as shifts in the market's perception of issuers and regulatory or tax changes adversely affecting the CRE debt market as a whole. The exercise of. 28. Table of Contents. remedies and successful realization of liquidation proceeds relating to CRE securities may be highly dependent upon the performance of the servicer or special servicer. Ratings for CRE securities can also adversely affect their value. Moreover, some CRE securities, such as CDO notes, generally do not qualify as real estate assets for purposes of the gross asset and income requirements that apply to REITs, which could adversely affect our ability to qualify for tax treatment as a REIT.. Our investments in CMBS and CDOs are also subject to losses. In general, losses on a mortgaged property securing a mortgage loan included in a securitization will be borne first by the equity holder of the property, then by a cash reserve fund or letter of credit, if any, then by the holder of a mezzanine loan or B-Note, if any, then by the \"first loss\" subordinated security holder (generally, the \"B-Piece\" buyer) and then by the holder of a higher-rated security. In the event of default and the exhaustion of any equity support, reserve fund, letter of credit, mezzanine loans or B-Notes, and any classes of securities junior to those in which we invest, we will not be able to recover all of our investment in the securities we purchase. In addition, if the underlying mortgage portfolio has been overvalued by the originator, or if the values subsequently decline and, as a result, less collateral is available to satisfy interest and principal payments due on the related CMBS or CDO, there would be an increased risk of loss. The prices of lower credit quality securities are generally less sensitive to interest rate changes than more highly rated investments, but more sensitive to adverse economic downturns or individual issuer developments.. Adverse changes in general economic conditions could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business is also closely tied to general economic conditions of the areas where our investments are located and in the real estate industry generally. As a result, our economic performance, the value of our CRE debt and debt-like investments, real estate and real estate related investments, and our ability to implement our business strategies may be significantly and adversely affected by changes in economic conditions in the United States where a substantial number of our investments are located and in international geographic areas, as applicable. The condition of the real estate markets in which we operate is cyclical and depends on the condition of the economy in the United States, Europe, China and elsewhere as a whole and to the perceptions of investors of the overall economic outlook. Rising interest rates, declining employment levels, declining demand for real estate, declining real estate values or periods of general economic slowdown or recession, increasing political instability or uncertainty, or the perception that any of these events may occur have negatively impacted the real estate market in the past and may in the future negatively impact our operating performance. Declining real estate values could reduce our level of new loan originations and make borrowers less likely to service the principal and interest on our CRE debt investments. Slower than expected economic growth pressured by a strained labor market, could result in lower occupancy rates and lower lease rates across many property types, which could create obstacles for us to achieve our business plans. In addition, the economic condition of each local market where we operate may depend on one or more key industries within that market, which, in turn, makes our business sensitive to the performance of those industries.. Adverse changes in general economic conditions may also disrupt the debt and equity capital markets and lack of access to capital or prohibitively high costs of obtaining or replacing capital may materially and adversely affect our business.. We have only a limited ability to change our portfolio promptly in response to economic or other conditions. Certain significant expenditures, such as debt service costs, real estate taxes, and operating and maintenance costs, are generally not reduced when market conditions are poor. These factors impede us from responding quickly to changes in the performance of our investments and could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to significant competition, and we may not be able to compete successfully for investments, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to significant competition for attractive investment opportunities from other financing institutions and investors, including those focused primarily on real estate and real estate-related investment activities, some of which have greater financial resources than we do, including publicly traded REITs, non-traded REITs, insurance companies, commercial and investment banking firms, private institutional funds, hedge funds, private equity funds and other investors (including other funds managed by Colony NorthStar). Several of our competitors, including other REITs, have recently raised, or are expected to raise, significant amounts of capital, and may have investment objectives that overlap with our investment objectives, which may create additional competition for lending and other investment opportunities. Some of our competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that may not be available to us or are only available to us on substantially less attractive terms. Many of our competitors are not subject to the operating constraints associated with REIT tax compliance or maintenance of an exclusion or exemption from the Investment Company Act. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more lending relationships than we can. If we pay higher prices for investments or originate loans on less advantageous terms to us, our returns may be lower and the value of our assets may not increase or may decrease significantly below the amount we paid for such assets. As we reinvest capital, we may not realize risk adjusted returns that are as attractive as those we have realized in the past. In addition, changes in the financial regulatory regime following the 2016 U.S. Presidential election could decrease the current restrictions on banks and other financial institutions and allow. 29. Table of Contents. them to compete with us for investment opportunities that were previously not available to them. For example, the Financial CHOICE Act was introduced in Congress as an avenue for significant amendments to the Dodd-Frank Act and may diminish or eliminate risk retention requirements, among other things. If the Financial CHOICE Act or similar legislation is enacted, it could increase competition with our business.. As a result of this competition, desirable loans and investments in our target assets may be limited in the future, and we may not be able to take advantage of attractive lending and investment opportunities from time to time. In addition, reduced CRE transaction volume could increase competition for available investment opportunities. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to identify and originate loans or make investments that are consistent with our investment objectives. We cannot assure you that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may not have control over certain of our loans and investments.. Our ability to manage our portfolio of loans and investments may be limited by the form in which they are made. In certain situations, we may:. <U+0095>   acquire investments subject to rights of senior classes, special servicers or collateral managers under intercreditor, servicing agreements or securitization documents;. <U+0095>   pledge our investments as collateral for financing arrangements;. <U+0095>   acquire only a minority and/or a non-controlling participation in an underlying investment;. <U+0095>   co-invest with others through partnerships, joint ventures or other entities, thereby acquiring non- controlling interests; or. <U+0095>   rely on independent third-party management or servicing with respect to the management of an asset.. Therefore, we may not be able to exercise control over all aspects of our loans or investments. Such financial assets may involve risks not present in investments where senior creditors, junior creditors, servicers or third parties controlling investors are not involved. Our rights to control the process following a borrower default may be subject to the rights of senior or junior creditors or servicers whose interests may not be aligned with ours. A partner or co-venturer may have financial difficulties resulting in a negative impact on such asset, may have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours, or may be in a position to take action contrary to our investment objectives. In addition, we may, in certain circumstances, be liable for the actions of our partners or co-venturers.. Most of the commercial mortgage loans that we originate or acquire are non-recourse loans.. Except for customary non-recourse carve-outs for certain actions and environmental liability, most commercial mortgage loans are effectively non-recourse obligations of the sponsor and borrower, meaning that there is no recourse against the assets of the borrower or sponsor other than the underlying collateral. In the event of any default under a commercial mortgage loan held directly by us, we will bear a risk of loss to the extent of any deficiency between the value of the collateral and the principal of and accrued interest on the mortgage loan, which could materially and adversely affect us. There can be no assurance that the value of the assets securing our commercial mortgage loans will not deteriorate over time due to factors beyond our control, as was the case during the credit crisis and the economic recession that began in 2008. Even if a commercial mortgage loan is recourse to the borrower (or if a non-recourse carve-out to the borrower applies), in most cases, the borrower's assets are limited primarily to its interest in the related mortgaged property. Further, although a commercial mortgage loan may provide for limited recourse to a principal or affiliate of the related borrower, there is no assurance that any recovery from such principal or affiliate will be made or that such principal's or affiliate's assets would be sufficient to pay any otherwise recoverable claim. In the event of the bankruptcy of a borrower, the loan to such borrower will be deemed to be secured only to the extent of the value of the underlying collateral at the time of bankruptcy (as determined by the bankruptcy court), and the lien securing the loan will be subject to the avoidance powers of the bankruptcy trustee or debtor-in-possession to the extent the lien is unenforceable under state law.. We may be subject to risks associated with future advance or capital expenditure obligations, such as declining real estate values and operating performance.. Our CRE debt investments may require us to advance future funds. We may also need to fund capital expenditures and other significant expenses for our real estate property investments. Future funding obligations subject us to significant risks, such as a decline in value of the property, cost overruns and the borrower or tenant may be unable to generate enough cash flow and execute its business plan, or sell or refinance the property, in order to repay its obligations to us. We could determine that we need to fund more money than we originally anticipated in order to maximize the value of our investment even though there is no assurance additional funding would be the best course of action. Further, future funding obligations may require us to maintain higher liquidity than we might otherwise maintain and this could reduce the overall return on our investments. We could also find ourselves in a position with insufficient liquidity to fund future obligations.. 30. Table of Contents. We may be unable to restructure our investments in a manner that we believe maximizes value, particularly if we are one of multiple creditors in a large capital structure.. In order to maximize value, we may be more likely to extend and work out an investment rather than pursue other remedies such as taking title to collateral. However, in situations where there are multiple creditors in large capital structures, it can be particularly difficult to assess the most likely course of action that a lender group or the borrower may take and it may also be difficult to achieve consensus among the lender group as to major decisions. Consequently, there could be a wide range of potential principal recovery outcomes, the timing of which can be unpredictable, based on the strategy pursued by a lender group or other applicable parties. These multiple creditor situations tend to be associated with larger loans. If we are one of a group of lenders, we may not independently control the decision-making. Consequently, we may be unable to restructure an investment in a manner that we believe would maximize value.. We may make investments in assets with lower credit quality, which will increase our risk of losses and may reduce distributions to stockholders and may adversely affect the value of our Class A common stock.. We may invest in unrated or non-investment grade CRE securities, enter into leases with unrated tenants or participate in subordinate, unrated or distressed mortgage loans. The non-investment grade ratings for these assets typically result from the overall leverage of the loans, the lack of a strong operating history for the borrower owners or the properties underlying the loans or securities, the borrowers' credit history, the properties' underlying cash flow or other factors. Because the ability of obligors of properties and mortgages, including mortgage loans underlying CMBS, to make rent or principal and interest payments may be impaired during an economic downturn, prices of lower credit quality investments and CRE securities may decline. As a result, these investments may have a higher risk of default and loss than investment grade rated assets. The existing credit support in the securitization structure may be insufficient to protect us against loss of our principal on these investments. Any loss we incur may be significant, reduce distributions to stockholders and adversely affect the value of our Class A common stock.. Insurance may not cover all potential losses on CRE investments, which may impair the value of our assets.. We generally require that each of the borrowers under our CRE debt investments obtain comprehensive insurance covering the collateral, including liability, fire and extended coverage. We also generally obtain insurance directly on any property we acquire. However, there are certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes, floods and hurricanes that may be uninsurable or not economically insurable. We may not obtain, or require borrowers to obtain, certain types of insurance if it is deemed commercially unreasonable. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors also might make it infeasible to use insurance proceeds to replace a property if it is damaged or destroyed. Further, it is possible that our borrowers could breach their obligations to us and not maintain sufficient insurance coverage. Under such circumstances, the insurance proceeds, if any, might not be adequate to restore the economic value of the property, which might decrease the value of the property and in turn impair our investment.. We depend on borrowers and tenants for a substantial portion of our revenue and, accordingly, our revenue and our ability to make distributions to stockholders will be dependent upon the success and economic viability of such borrowers and tenants.. The success of our origination or acquisition of investments significantly depends on the financial stability of the borrowers and tenants underlying such investments. Before making a loan to a borrower, we assess the strength and skills of an entity's management and other factors that we believe are material to the performance of the investment. In making the assessment and otherwise conducting customary due diligence, we rely on the resources available to us and, in some cases, an investigation by third parties. There can be no assurance that our due diligence processes will uncover all relevant facts or that any investment will be successful. The inability of a single major borrower or tenant, or a number of smaller borrowers or tenants, to meet their payment obligations could result in reduced revenue or losses.. The leases at the properties underlying CRE debt investments or the properties held by us may not be relet or renewed on favorable terms, or at all, which may result in a reduction in our net income, and as a result we may be required to reduce or eliminate cash distributions to stockholders.. Our investments in real estate will be pressured if economic conditions and rental markets continue to be challenging. For instance, upon expiration or early termination of leases for space located at our properties, the space may not be relet or, if relet, the terms of the renewal or reletting (including the cost of required renovations or concessions to tenants) may be less favorable than current lease terms. We may be receiving above market rental rates which will decrease upon renewal, which will adversely impact our income and could harm our ability to service our debt and operate successfully. Weak economic conditions would likely reduce tenants' ability to. 31. Table of Contents. make rent payments in accordance with the contractual terms of their leases and lead to early termination of leases. Furthermore, commercial space needs may contract, resulting in lower lease renewal rates and longer releasing periods when leases are not renewed. Any of these situations may result in extended periods where there is a significant decline in revenues or no revenues generated by a property. Additionally, to the extent that market rental rates are reduced, property-level cash flow would likely be negatively affected as existing leases renew at lower rates. If we are unable to relet or renew leases for all or substantially all of the space at these properties, if the rental rates upon such renewal or reletting are significantly lower than expected, or if our reserves for these purposes prove inadequate, we will experience a reduction in net income and may be required to reduce or eliminate cash distributions to stockholders.. Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, we may not be able to vary our portfolio in response to changes in economic and other conditions, which may result in losses to us.. Many of our investments are illiquid. A variety of factors could make it difficult for us to dispose of any of our assets on acceptable terms even if a disposition is in the best interests of stockholders. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property for the price or on the terms set by us or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. We also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property. Certain properties may also be subject to transfer restrictions that materially restrict us from selling that property for a period of time or impose other restrictions, such as a limitation on the amount of financing that can be placed or repaid on that property. We may be required to expend cash to correct defects or to make improvements before a property can be sold, and we cannot provide assurance that we will have cash available to correct those defects or to make those improvements. The Code also places limits on our ability as a REIT to sell certain properties held for fewer than two years.. Borrowers under certain of our CRE debt investments may give their tenants or other persons similar rights with respect to the collateral. Similarly, we may also determine to give our tenants a right of first refusal or similar options. Such rights could negatively affect the residual value or marketability of the property and impede our ability to sell the collateral or the property.. As a result, our ability to sell investments in response to changes in economic and other conditions could be limited. To the extent we are unable to sell any property for its book value or at all, we may be required to take a non-cash impairment charge or loss on the sale, either of which would reduce our earnings. Limitations on our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our investments may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.. Environmental compliance costs and other environmental liabilities associated with our current or former properties or our CRE debt or real estate-related investments may materially impair the value of our investments and expose us to material liability.. Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, statutes, ordinances and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, a current or previous owner or operator of real property, such as us, our borrowers and our tenants, may be liable in certain circumstances for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of, or related to releases of hazardous or toxic substances. materials or wastes, including petroleum and materials containing asbestos, present or released at, under, on, from, or disposed of or treated from or in connection with such property, as well as certain other potential liabilities relating to such substances, including government fines and penalties and damages for injuries to persons and property. In addition, some environmental laws can create a lien on the contaminated site in favor of the government for damages and the costs it incurs in connection with the contamination. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence, release or disposal of such substances, such liability may be joint and several, and liability may be imposed on the current or former owner or operator of a property in connection with the activities of a tenant at the property. The presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may adversely affect our or our tenants' ability to sell, develop, operate or lease real estate, or to borrow using the real estate as collateral, which, in turn, could reduce our revenues. We, as owner or operator of a site, including if we take ownership through foreclosure, or our tenants or borrowers may be liable under common law or otherwise to third parties for damages and injuries resulting from environmental contamination at or emanating from the site. Some of our properties are or have been used for commercial or industrial purposes involving the use or presence of hazardous substances, materials or waste, which could have resulted in environmental impacts at or from these properties, including contamination of which we are not presently aware.. Our properties are also subject to federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and zoning requirements, including those regarding the handling of regulated substances and wastes, emissions to the environment and fire codes. If we, or our tenants or borrowers, fail to comply with these various laws and requirements, we might incur costs and liabilities, including governmental fines and penalties. Moreover, we do not know whether existing laws and requirements will change or, if they do, whether future laws and requirements will require us to make significant unanticipated expenditures that could have a material adverse effect on us. Environmental noncompliance liability also could affect a tenant's ability to make rental payments to us.. 32. Table of Contents. Some of our properties may contain, or may have contained, asbestos-containing building materials. Environmental, health and safety laws require that owners or operators of or employers in buildings with asbestos-containing materials (\"ACM\") properly manage and maintain these materials, adequately inform or train those who may come into contact with ACM and undertake special precautions, including removal or other abatement, in the event that ACM is disturbed during building maintenance, renovation or demolition. These laws may impose fines and penalties on employers, building owners or operators for failure to comply with these laws. In addition, third parties may seek recovery from employers, owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos.. When excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials, mold growth may occur, particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of time. Some molds may produce airborne toxins or irritants. Indoor air quality issues also can stem from inadequate ventilation, chemical contamination from indoor or outdoor sources and other biological contaminants such as pollen, viruses and bacteria. Indoor exposure to airborne toxins or irritants above certain levels can be alleged to cause a variety of adverse health effects and symptoms, including allergic or other reactions. As a result, the presence of significant mold or other airborne contaminants at any of our properties could require us to undertake a remediation program to contain or remove the mold or other airborne contaminants from the affected property or increase indoor ventilation. In addition, the presence of significant mold or other airborne contaminants could expose us to liability from our tenants and others if property damage or personal injury occurs.. These costs and liabilities, including for any required investigation, remediation, removal, fines, penalties, costs to comply with environmental law or personal or property injury or damages and our or our tenants' or borrowers' liability could significantly exceed the value of the property without any limits.. The scope of any indemnification our tenants or borrowers have agreed to provide us for environmental liabilities may be limited. For instance, some of our agreements with our tenants or borrowers do not require them to indemnify us for environmental liabilities arising before such tenant or borrower took possession of the premises. Further, we cannot assure stockholders that any such tenant or borrower would be able to fulfill its indemnification obligations. If we were deemed liable for any such environmental liabilities and were unable to seek recovery against our tenant or borrower, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. Furthermore, we may invest in real estate, or CRE debt secured by real estate or subordinate interests, with environmental impacts or issues that materially impair the value of the real estate. Even as a lender, if we take title to collateral with environmental problems or if other circumstances arise, we could be subject to environmental liability. There are substantial risks associated with such an investment.. Laws, regulations or other issues related to climate change could have a material adverse effect on us.. If we, or other companies with which we do business, particularly utilities that provide our facilities with electricity, become subject to laws or regulations related to climate change, it could have a material adverse effect on us. The United States may enact new laws, regulations and interpretations relating to climate change, including potential cap-and-trade systems, carbon taxes and other requirements relating to reduction of carbon footprints and/or greenhouse gas emissions. Other countries have enacted climate change laws and regulations, and the United States has been involved in discussions and agreements regarding international climate change treaties. The federal government and some of the states and localities in which we operate have enacted certain climate change laws and regulations and/or have begun regulating carbon footprints and greenhouse gas emissions. Although these laws and regulations have not had any known material adverse effect on us to date, they could limit our ability to develop properties or result in substantial costs, including compliance costs, retrofit costs and construction costs, monitoring and reporting costs and capital expenditures for environmental control facilities and other new equipment. In addition, these laws and regulations could lead to increased costs for the electricity that our tenant's require to conduct operations. Furthermore, our reputation could be damaged if we violate climate change laws or regulations. We cannot predict how future laws and regulations, or future interpretations of current laws and regulations, related to climate change will affect our business, results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Lastly, the potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain, and would be particular to the geographic circumstances in areas in which we operate. These may include changes in rainfall and storm patterns and intensities, water shortages, changing sea levels and changing temperatures. Any of these matters could have a material adverse effect on us.. Our joint venture partners could take actions that decrease the value of an investment to us and lower our overall return.. We currently have, and may in the future enter into, joint ventures with third parties, affiliates of our Manager and other Managed Companies to make investments. We may also make investments in partnerships or other co-ownership arrangements or participations. Such investments may involve risks not otherwise present with other methods of investment, including, for instance, the following risks:. 33. Table of Contents. <U+0095>   our joint venture partner in an investment could become insolvent or bankrupt;. <U+0095>   fraud or other misconduct by our joint venture partners;. <U+0095>   we may share decision-making authority with our joint venture partners regarding certain major decisions affecting the ownership of the joint venture and the joint venture investment, such as the management of the CRE debt, sale of the property or the making of additional capital contributions for the benefit of the loan or property, which may prevent us from taking actions that are opposed by our joint venture partner;. <U+0095>   such joint venture partner may at any time have economic or business interests or goals that are or that become in conflict with our business interests or goals, including for example the management of the CRE debt or operation of the properties;. <U+0095>   such joint venture partner may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives;. <U+0095>   our joint venture partners may be structured differently than us for tax purposes and this could create conflicts of interest and risk to our REIT status;. <U+0095>   we may rely upon our joint venture partners to manage the day-to-day operations of the joint venture and underlying loans or assets, as well as to prepare financial information for the joint venture and any failure to perform these obligations may have a negative impact our performance and results of operations;. <U+0095>   our joint venture partner may experience a change of control, which could result in new management of our joint venture partner with less experience or conflicting interests to ours and be disruptive to our business;. <U+0095>   the terms of our joint ventures could restrict our ability to sell or transfer our interest to a third party when we desire on advantageous terms, which could result in reduced liquidity;. <U+0095>   our joint venture partners may not have sufficient personnel or appropriate levels of expertise to adequately support our initiatives; and. <U+0095>   to the extent we partner with other Managed Companies, our Manager and Colony NorthStar may have conflicts of interest that may not be resolved in our favor.. Any of the above might subject us to liabilities and thus reduce our returns on our investment with that joint venture partner. In addition, disagreements or disputes between us and our joint venture partner could result in litigation, which could increase our expenses and potentially limit the time and effort our officers and directors are able to devote to our business.. Further, in some instances, we and/or our partner may have the right to trigger a buy-sell arrangement, which could cause us to sell our interest, or acquire our partner's interest, at a time when we otherwise would not have initiated such a transaction. Our ability to acquire our partner's interest may be limited if we do not have sufficient cash, available borrowing capacity or other capital resources. In such event, we may be forced to sell our interest in the joint venture when we would otherwise prefer to retain it.. 34. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Our Financing Strategy. Our indebtedness may subject us to increased risk of loss and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We use a variety of structures to finance the origination and acquisition of our investments, including our credit facilities, securitization financing transactions and other term borrowings, including repurchase agreements. Subject to market conditions and availability, we may incur a significant amount of debt through bank credit facilities (including term loans and revolving facilities), warehouse facilities and structured financing arrangements, public and private debt issuances and derivative instruments, in addition to transaction or asset-specific funding arrangements and additional repurchase agreements. We may also issue debt or equity securities to fund our growth. The type and percentage of leverage we employ will vary depending on our available capital, our ability to obtain and access financing arrangements with lenders, the type of asset we are funding, whether the financing is recourse or nonrecourse, debt restrictions contained in those financing arrangements and the lenders' and rating agencies' estimate of the stability of our investment portfolio's cash flow. We may significantly increase the amount of leverage we utilize at any time without approval of our Board of Directors. In addition, we may leverage individual assets at substantially higher levels. We may be unable to obtain necessary additional financing on favorable terms or, with respect to our investments, on terms that parallel the maturities of the debt originated or acquired, if we are unable to obtain additional financing at all. If our strategy is not viable, we will have to find alternative forms of long-term financing for our assets, as secured revolving credit facilities and repurchase agreements may not accommodate long-term financing. If we do obtain additional debt or financing, the substantial debt could subject us to many risks that, if realized, would materially and adversely affect us, including the risk that:. <U+0095>   our cash flow from operations may be insufficient to make required payments of principal of and interest on our debt or we may fail to comply with covenants contained in our debt agreements, which is likely to result in (1) acceleration of such debt (and any other debt containing a cross-default or cross-acceleration provision), which we then may be unable to repay from internal funds or to refinance on favorable terms, or at all, (2) our inability to borrow undrawn amounts under our financing arrangements, even if we are current in payments on borrowings under those arrangements, which would result in a decrease in our liquidity, and/or (3) the loss of some or all of our collateral assets to foreclosure or sale;. <U+0095>   our debt may increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions with no assurance that investment yields will increase in an amount sufficient to offset the higher financing costs;. <U+0095>   we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for operations, future business opportunities, stockholder distributions or other purposes;. <U+0095>   we may not be able to refinance any debt that matures prior to the maturity (or realization) of an underlying investment it was used to finance on favorable terms or at all; and. <U+0095>   we will have increased exposure to risks if the counterparties of our debt obligations are impacted by credit market turmoil or exposure to financial or other pressures.. There can be no assurance that a leveraging strategy will be successful and may subject us to increased risk of loss, harm our liquidity and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Our master repurchase agreements impose, and additional lending facilities may impose, restrictive covenants, which would restrict our flexibility to determine our operating policies and investment strategy and to conduct our business.. We borrow funds under master repurchase agreements with various counterparties. The documents that govern these master repurchase agreements and the related guarantees contain, and additional lending facilities may contain, customary affirmative and negative covenants, including financial covenants applicable to us that may restrict our ability to further incur borrowings, restrict our distributions to stockholders prohibit us from discontinuing insurance coverage, replacing our Manager and restrict our flexibility to determine our operating policies and investment strategy. In particular, our master repurchase agreements require us to maintain a certain amount of cash or set aside assets sufficient to maintain a specified liquidity position that would allow us to satisfy our collateral obligations. As a result, we may not be able to leverage our assets as fully as we would otherwise choose, which could reduce our return on assets. If we fail to meet or satisfy any of these covenants, we would be in default under these agreements, and our lenders could elect to declare outstanding amounts due and payable, terminate their commitments, require the posting of additional collateral and enforce their interests against existing collateral. We may also be subject to cross-default and acceleration rights in our other debt facilities. Further, this could also make it difficult for us to satisfy the requirements necessary to maintain our qualification as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes or to maintain our exclusion from registration under the Investment Company Act. In addition, in the event that the lender files for bankruptcy or becomes insolvent, our loans may become subject to bankruptcy or. 35. Table of Contents. insolvency proceedings, thus depriving us, at least temporarily, of the benefit of these assets. Such an event could restrict our access to bank credit facilities and increase our cost of capital. Our master repurchase agreements also grant certain consent rights to the lenders thereunder, which give them the right to consent to certain modifications to the pledged collateral. This could limit our ability to manage a pledged investment in a way that we think would provide the best outcome for our stockholders.. These types of financing arrangements also involve the risk that the market value of the assets pledged or sold by us to the provider of the financing may decline in value, in which case the lender or counterparty may require us to provide additional collateral or lead to margin calls that may require us to repay all or a portion of the funds advanced. We may not have the funds available to repay our debt at that time, which would likely result in defaults unless we are able to raise the funds from alternative sources including by selling assets at a time when we might not otherwise choose to do so, which we may not be able to achieve on favorable terms or at all.. Posting additional collateral would reduce our cash available to make other, higher yielding investments (thereby decreasing our return on equity). If we cannot meet these requirements, the lender or counterparty could accelerate our indebtedness, increase the interest rate on advanced funds and terminate our ability to borrow funds from it, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and ability to implement our investment strategy. In the case of repurchase transactions, if the value of the underlying security has declined as of the end of that term, or if we default on our obligations under the repurchase agreement, we will likely incur a loss on our repurchase transactions.. Interest rate fluctuations could reduce our ability to generate income on our investments and may cause losses.. Our financial performance is influenced by changes in interest rates, in particular, as such changes may affect our CRE securities, floating-rate borrowings and CRE debt to the extent such debt does not float as a result of floors or otherwise. Changes in interest rates affect our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income we earn on our interest-earning investments and the interest expense we incur in financing these investments. Changes in the level of interest rates also may affect our ability to originate and acquire assets, the value of our assets and our ability to realize gains from the disposition of assets. Changes in interest rates may also affect borrower default rates. In a period of rising interest rates, our interest expense could increase, while the interest we earn on our fixed-rate debt investments would not change, adversely affecting our profitability. Our operating results depend in large part on differences between the income from our assets, net of credit losses, and our financing costs. We anticipate that for any period during which our assets are not match-funded (when we match maturities and interest rates of our liabilities with our assets to manage risks of being forced to refinance), the income from such assets will respond more slowly to interest rate fluctuations than the cost of our borrowings. We may fail to appropriately employ a match-funded structure on favorable terms or at all. Consequently, changes in interest rates particularly short term interest rates may significantly influence our net income. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary and tax policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. Interest rate fluctuations resulting in our interest expense exceeding interest income would result in operating losses for us.. Hedging against interest rate and currency exposure may adversely affect our earnings, limit our gains or result in losses, which could adversely affect cash available for distribution to our stockholders.. We may enter into swap, cap or floor agreements or pursue other interest rate or currency hedging strategies. Our hedging activity will vary in scope based on interest rate levels, currency exposure, the type of investments held and other changing market conditions. Interest rate and/or currency hedging may fail to protect or could adversely affect us because, among other things:. <U+0095>   interest rate and/or currency hedging can be expensive, particularly during periods of rising and volatile interest rates;. <U+0095>   available interest rate and/or currency hedging may not correspond directly with the interest rate risk for which protection is sought;. <U+0095>   the duration of the hedge may not match the duration of the related liability or asset;. <U+0095>   our hedging opportunities may be limited by the treatment of income from hedging transactions under the rules determining REIT qualification;. <U+0095>   the credit quality of the party owing money on the hedge may be downgraded to such an extent that it impairs our ability to sell or assign our side of the hedging transaction;. <U+0095>   the counterparties with which we trade may cease making markets and quoting prices in such instruments, which may render us unable to enter into an offsetting transaction with respect to an open position;. <U+0095>   the party owing money in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay;. 36. Table of Contents. <U+0095>   we may purchase a hedge that turns out not to be necessary (i.e., a hedge that is out of the money); and. <U+0095>   we may enter into hedging arrangements that would require us to fund cash payments in certain circumstances (such as the early termination of the hedging instrument caused by an event of default or other early termination event, or the decision by a counterparty to request margin securities it is contractually owed under the terms of the hedging instrument).. Any hedging activity we engage in may adversely affect our earnings, which could adversely affect cash available for distribution to stockholders. Therefore, while we may enter into such transactions to seek to reduce interest rate and/or currency risks, unanticipated changes in interest rates or exchange rates may result in poorer overall investment performance than if we had not engaged in any such hedging transactions. In addition, the degree of correlation between price movements of the instruments used in a hedging strategy and price movements in the portfolio positions being hedged or liabilities being hedged may vary materially. Moreover, for a variety of reasons, we may not be able to establish a perfect correlation between hedging instruments and the investments being hedged. Any such imperfect correlation may prevent us from achieving the intended hedge and expose us to risk of loss. We may also be exposed to liquidity issues as a result of margin calls or settlement of derivative hedges. Our hedging activities, if not undertaken in compliance with certain U.S. federal income tax requirements, could also adversely affect our ability to qualify for taxation as a REIT. In addition, hedging instruments involve risk since they often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities. Consequently, there are no regulatory or statutory requirements with respect to record keeping, financial responsibility or segregation of customer funds and positions. Furthermore, the enforceability of agreements underlying derivative transactions may depend on compliance with applicable statutory, commodity and other regulatory requirements and, depending on the identity of the counterparty, applicable international requirements.. We use short-term borrowings to finance our investments, and we may need to use such borrowings for extended periods of time to the extent we are unable to access long-term financing. This may expose us to increased risks associated with decreases in the fair value of the underlying collateral, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.. While we have and may continue to seek non-recourse, non-mark-to-market, matched-term, long-term financing through securitization financing transactions or other structures, such financing may be unavailable to us on favorable terms or at all. Consequently, we may be dependent on short-term financing arrangements that are not matched in duration to our financial assets. Short-term borrowing through repurchase arrangements, credit facilities and other types of borrowings may put our assets and financial condition at risk. Repurchase agreements economically resemble short-term, floating rate financing and usually require the maintenance of specific loan-to-collateral value ratios. Posting additional collateral to support our financing arrangements could significantly reduce our liquidity and limit our ability to leverage our assets. Furthermore, the cost of borrowings may increase substantially if lenders view us as having increased credit risk during periods of market distress. Any such short-term financing may also be recourse to us, which will increase the risk of our investments.. In addition, the value of assets underlying any such short-term financing may be marked-to-market periodically by the lender, including on a daily basis. To the extent these financing arrangements contain mark-to-market provisions, if the market value of the investments pledged by us declines due to credit quality deterioration, we may be required by our lenders to provide additional collateral or pay down a portion of our borrowings. In a weakening economic environment, we would generally expect credit quality and the value of the investment that serves as collateral for our financing arrangements to decline, and in such a scenario, it is likely that the terms of our financing arrangements would require partial repayment from us, which could be substantial.. These facilities may also be restricted to financing certain types of assets, such as first mortgage loans, which could impact our asset allocation. In addition, such short-term borrowing facilities may limit the length of time that any given asset may be used as eligible collateral. As a result, we may not be able to leverage our assets as fully as we would choose, which could reduce our return on assets. Further, such borrowings may require us to maintain a certain amount of cash reserves or to set aside unleveraged assets sufficient to maintain a specified liquidity position that would allow us to satisfy our collateral obligations. In the event that we are unable to meet the collateral obligations for our short-term borrowings, our financial condition could deteriorate rapidly.. We are subject to risks associated with obtaining mortgage financing on our real estate, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.. As of December 31, 2017, our initial portfolio had $847.1 million of total mortgage financing on a pro forma basis. We are subject to risks normally associated with financing, including the risks that our cash flow is insufficient to make timely payments of interest or principal, that we may be unable to refinance existing borrowings or support collateral obligations and that the terms of refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of existing borrowing. If we are unable to refinance or extend principal payments due at maturity or pay them with proceeds from other capital transactions or the sale of the underlying property, our cash flow may not be sufficient in all years to make distributions to stockholders and to repay all maturing borrowings. Furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, the interest expense relating to that refinanced borrowing would increase, which could reduce our profitability, result in losses and negatively impact the amount of distributions we are able to pay to stockholders. Moreover, additional financing increases the amount of our leverage, which could negatively affect our ability to obtain additional financing in the future or make us more vulnerable in a downturn in our results of operations or the economy generally.. 37. Table of Contents. Any warehouse facilities that we may obtain in the future may limit our ability to acquire assets, and we may incur losses if the collateral is liquidated.. In the event that securitization financings become available, we may utilize, if available, warehouse facilities pursuant to which we would accumulate mortgage loans in anticipation of a securitization financing, which assets would be pledged as collateral for such facilities until the securitization transaction is consummated. In order to borrow funds to acquire assets under any future warehouse facilities, we expect that our lenders thereunder would have the right to review the potential assets for which we are seeking financing. We may be unable to obtain the consent of a lender to acquire assets that we believe would be beneficial to us, and we may be unable to obtain alternate financing for such assets. In addition, no assurance can be given that a securitization structure would be consummated with respect to the assets being warehoused. If the securitization is not consummated, the lender could liquidate the warehoused collateral and we would then have to pay any amount by which the original purchase price of the collateral assets exceeds its sale price, subject to negotiated caps, if any, on our exposure. In addition, regardless of whether the securitization is consummated, if any of the warehoused collateral is sold before the consummation, we would have to bear any resulting loss on the sale. Currently, we have no warehouse facilities in place, and no assurance can be given that we will be able to obtain one or more warehouse facilities on favorable terms, or at all.. 38. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Regulatory Matters. Changes in laws or regulations governing our operations, changes in the interpretation thereof or newly enacted laws or regulations and any failure by us to comply with these laws or regulations, could require changes to certain of our business practices, negatively impact our operations, cash flow or financial condition, impose additional costs on us, subject us to increased competition or otherwise adversely affect our business.. The laws and regulations governing our operations, as well as their interpretation, may change from time to time, and new laws and regulations may be enacted. For example, from time to time the market for real estate debt transactions has been adversely affected by a decrease in the availability of senior and subordinated financing for transactions, in part in response to regulatory pressures on providers of financing to reduce or eliminate their exposure to such transactions. Furthermore, if regulatory capital requirements - whether under the Dodd-Frank Act, Basel III (voluntary minimum requirements for internationally active banks) or other regulatory action - are imposed on private lenders that provide us with funds, or were to be imposed on us, they or we may be required to limit, or increase the cost of, financing they provide to us or that we provide to others. Among other things, this could potentially increase our financing costs, reduce our ability to originate or acquire loans and reduce our liquidity or require us to sell assets at an inopportune time or price.. There has been increasing commentary amongst regulators and intergovernmental institutions on the role of nonbank institutions in providing credit and, particularly, so-called \"shadow banking,\" a term generally referring to credit intermediation involving entities and activities outside the regulated banking system and increased oversight and regulation of such entities. In the United States, the Dodd-Frank Act established the Financial Stability Oversight Council (the \"FSOC\"), which is comprised of representatives of all the major U.S. financial regulators, to act as the financial system's systemic risk regulator. The FSOC has the authority to review the activities of non-bank financial companies predominantly engaged in financial activities and designate those companies as \"systemically important\" for supervision by the Federal Reserve. On April 18, 2016, the FSOC released an update on its multi-year review of asset management products and activities and created an interagency working group to assess potential risks associated with certain leveraged funds. While it cannot be known at this time whether any regulation will be implemented or what form any new law or regulation or amendment will take, compliance with any increased regulation of non-bank credit extension could require changes to certain of our business practices, negatively impact our operations, cash flows or financial condition or impose additional costs on us.. The loss of our Investment Company Act exclusion could require us to register as an investment company or substantially change the way we conduct our business, either of which may have an adverse effect on us and the value of our Class A common stock.. On August 31, 2011, the SEC published a concept release (Release No. 29778, File No. S7-34-11, Companies Engaged in the Business of Acquiring Mortgages and Mortgage Related Instruments), pursuant to which it is reviewing whether certain companies that invest in mortgage-backed securities and rely on the exclusion from registration under Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the Investment Company Act, such as us, should continue to be allowed to rely on such an exclusion from registration. If the SEC or its staff takes action with respect to this exclusion, these changes could mean that certain of our subsidiaries could no longer rely on the Section 3(c)(5)(C) exclusion, and would have to rely on Section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7), which would mean that our investment in those subsidiaries would be investment securities. This could result in our failure to maintain our exclusion from registration as an investment company. If we fail to maintain an exclusion from registration as an investment company, either because of SEC interpretational changes or otherwise, we could, among other things, be required either: (i) to substantially change the manner in which we conduct our operations to avoid being required to register as an investment company; or (ii) to register as an investment company, either of which could have an adverse effect on us and the value of our Class A common stock. If we are required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we would become subject to substantial regulation with respect to our capital structure (including our ability to use leverage), management, operations, transactions with affiliated persons (as defined in the Investment Company Act), portfolio composition, including restrictions with respect to diversification and industry concentration and other matters.. Our Manager is subject to extensive regulation, including as an investment adviser in the United States, which could adversely affect its ability to manage our business.. Certain of Colony NorthStar's affiliates, including our Manager, are subject to regulation as investment advisers and/or fund managers by various regulatory authorities that are charged with protecting our interests. Instances of criminal activity and fraud by participants in the investment management industry and disclosures of trading and other abuses by participants in the financial services industry have led the U.S. government and regulators in foreign jurisdictions to consider increasing the rules and regulations governing, and oversight of, the financial system. This activity is expected to result in continued changes to the laws and regulations governing the investment management industry and more aggressive enforcement of the existing laws and regulations. Our Manager could be subject to civil liability, criminal liability, or sanction, including revocation of its registration as an investment adviser in the United States, revocation of the licenses of its employees, censures, fines or temporary suspension or permanent bar from conducting business if it is found to have violated any of these laws or regulations. Any such liability or sanction could adversely affect its ability to manage our business.. 39. Table of Contents. Our Manager must continually address conflicts between its interests and those of its Managed Companies, and us. In addition, the SEC and other regulators have increased their scrutiny of potential conflicts of interest. However, appropriately dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult and if our Manager fails, or appears to fail, to deal appropriately with conflicts of interest, it could face litigation or regulatory proceedings or penalties, any of which could adversely affect its ability to manage our business.. 40. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Taxation. Our qualification as a REIT involves complying with highly technical and complex provisions of the Code.. We intend to elect to be taxed as a REIT under the U.S. federal income tax laws commencing with our taxable year ending December 31, 2018. Our qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the \"Code\") for which only limited judicial and administrative authorities exist. Even a technical or inadvertent violation could jeopardize our REIT qualification. New legislation, court decisions or administrative guidance, in each case possibly with retroactive effect, may make it more difficult or impossible for us to qualify as a REIT.. Our qualification as a REIT depends on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis:. <U+0095>   With respect to the gross income and asset tests, our compliance depends upon our analysis of the characterization and fair market values of our assets, some of which are not susceptible to a precise determination, and for which we will not obtain independent appraisals. Moreover, we invest in certain assets with respect to which the rules applicable to REITs are particularly difficult to interpret or to apply, including, but not limited to, the rules applicable to financing arrangements that are structured as sale and repurchase agreements; mezzanine loans; and investments in real estate mortgage loans that are acquired at a discount, subject to work-outs or modifications, or reasonably expected to be in default at the time of acquisition. If the IRS challenged our treatment of these assets as real estate assets for purposes of the REIT asset tests, and if such a challenge were sustained, we could fail to meet the asset tests applicable to REITs and thus fail to qualify as a REIT.. <U+0095>   The fact that we own direct or indirect interests in a number of entities that have elected to be taxed as REITs under the U.S. federal income tax laws (a \"Subsidiary REIT\"), further complicates the application of the REIT requirements for us. Each Subsidiary REIT is subject to the various REIT qualification requirements that are applicable to us. If a Subsidiary REIT were to fail to qualify as a REIT, then (i) that Subsidiary REIT would become subject to regular U.S. federal corporate income tax, (ii) our interest in such Subsidiary REIT would cease to be a qualifying asset for purposes of the REIT asset tests, and (iii) it is possible that we would fail certain of the REIT asset tests, in which event we also would fail to qualify as a REIT unless we could avail ourselves of certain relief provisions.. <U+0095>   Our ability to satisfy the distribution and other requirements to qualify as a REIT depends in part on the actions of third parties over which we have no control or only limited influence, including in cases where we own limited partner or non-managing member interests in partnerships and limited liability companies that are joint ventures or funds.. If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we would be subject to U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates, and dividends paid to our stockholders would not be deductible by us in computing our taxable income. Any resulting corporate tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders, which in turn could have an adverse impact on the value of our Class A common stock. In addition, we would no longer be required to make distributions to stockholders. Unless we were entitled to relief under certain Code provisions, we also would be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which we failed to qualify as a REIT.. We may incur adverse tax consequences if NorthStar I or NorthStar II were to have failed to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes prior to the Mergers.. In connection with the closing of the Mergers, we received an opinion of counsel to each of NorthStar I and NorthStar II to the effect that it qualified as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes under the Code through the time of the Mergers. Neither NorthStar I nor NorthStar II, however, requested a ruling from the IRS that it qualified as a REIT. If, notwithstanding these opinions, NorthStar I's or NorthStar II's REIT status for periods prior to the Mergers were successfully challenged, we would face serious adverse tax consequences that would substantially reduce our core funds from operations (\"Core FFO\"), and cash available for distribution (\"CAD\"), including cash available to pay dividends to our stockholders, because:. <U+0095>   NorthStar I or NorthStar II, as applicable, would be subject to U.S. federal, state and local income tax on its net income at regular corporate rates for the years it did not qualify as a REIT (and, for such years, would not be allowed a deduction for dividends paid to stockholders in computing its taxable income) and we would succeed to the liability for such taxes;. <U+0095>   if we were considered to be a \"successor\" of such entity, we would not be eligible to elect REIT status until the fifth taxable year following the year during which such entity was disqualified, unless it were entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions;. 41. Table of Contents. <U+0095>   even if we were eligible to elect REIT status, we would be subject to tax (at the highest corporate rate in effect at the date of the sale) on the built-in gain on each asset of NorthStar I or NorthStar II, as applicable, existing at the time of the Mergers if we were to dispose of such asset for up to five years following the Mergers; and. <U+0095>   we would succeed to any earnings and profits accumulated by NorthStar I or NorthStar II, as applicable, for tax periods that such entity did not qualify as a REIT and we would have to pay a special dividend and/or employ applicable deficiency dividend procedures (including interest payments to the IRS) to eliminate such earnings and profits to maintain our REIT qualification.. As a result of these factors, NorthStar I's or NorthStar II's failure to qualify as a REIT prior to the Mergers could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital and could materially adversely affect the value of our Class A common stock. In addition, even if they qualified as REITs for the duration of their existence, if there is an adjustment to NorthStar I's or NorthStar II's taxable income or dividends-paid deductions for periods prior to the Mergers, we could be required to elect to use the deficiency dividend procedure to maintain NorthStar I's or NorthStar II's, as applicable, REIT status for periods prior to the Mergers. That deficiency dividend procedure could require us to make significant distributions to our stockholders and to pay significant interest to the IRS.. If the Company OP is treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we will cease to qualify as a REIT.. We believe that the Company OP qualifies as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As such, it is not subject to U.S. federal income tax on its income. Instead, its members, including us, generally are required to pay tax on their respective allocable share of the Company OP's income. No assurance can be provided, however, that the IRS will not challenge the Company OP's status as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. If the IRS were successful in treating the Company OP as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would fail to meet the gross income and asset tests applicable to REITs and, therefore, cease to qualify as a REIT, and the Company OP would become subject to U.S. federal, state and local income tax.. Dividends payable by REITs do not qualify for the preferential tax rates available for some dividends.. The maximum rate applicable to \"qualified dividend income\" paid by non-REIT \"C\" corporations to U.S. stockholders that are individuals, trusts and estates generally is 20%. Dividends payable by REITs to those U.S. stockholders, however, generally are not eligible for the current reduced rate, except to the extent that certain holding requirements have been met and a REIT's dividends are attributable to dividends received by a REIT from taxable corporations (such as a taxable REIT subsidiary (\"TRS\")), to income that was subject to tax at the REIT/corporate level, or to dividends properly designated by the REIT as \"capital gains dividends.\" Effective for taxable years before January 1, 2026, those U.S. stockholders may deduct 20% of their dividends from REITs (excluding qualified dividend income and capital gains dividends). For those U.S. stockholders in the top marginal tax bracket of 37%, the deduction for REIT dividends yields an effective income tax rate of 29.6% on REIT dividends, which is higher than the 20% tax rate on qualified dividend income paid by non-REIT \"C\" corporations, but still lower than the effective rate that applied prior to 2018, which is the first year that this special deduction for REIT dividends is available. Although the reduced rates applicable to dividend income from non-REIT \"C\" corporations do not adversely affect the taxation of REITs or dividends payable by REITs, it could cause investors who are non-corporate taxpayers to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the shares of non-REIT \"C\" corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of our Class A common stock.. REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan.. We generally must distribute annually at least 90% of our \"REIT taxable income\" (subject to certain adjustments and excluding any net capital gain), in order to qualify as a REIT, and any REIT taxable income that we do not distribute will be subject to U.S. corporate income tax at regular rates. In addition, from time to time, we may generate taxable income greater than our income for financial reporting purposes prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, or differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash may occur. For example,. <U+0095>   we may be required to accrue income from mortgage loans, mortgage-backed securities (\"MBS\"), and other types of debt securities or interests in debt securities before we receive any payments of interest or principal on such assets;. <U+0095>   we may acquire distressed debt investments that are subsequently modified by agreement with the borrower, which could cause us to have to recognize gain in certain circumstances;. <U+0095>   we may recognize substantial amounts of \"cancellation of debt\" income for U.S. federal income tax purposes (but not for U.S. GAAP purposes) due to discount repurchases of our liabilities, which could cause our REIT taxable income to exceed our U.S. GAAP income;. <U+0095>   we or our TRSs may recognize taxable \"phantom income\" as a result of modifications, pursuant to agreements with borrowers, of debt instruments that we acquire if the amendments to the outstanding debt are \"significant modifications\" under the applicable Treasury regulations. In addition, our TRSs may be treated as a \"dealer\" for U.S. federal income tax purposes, in which case the TRS would be required to mark-to-market its assets at the end of each taxable year and recognize taxable gain or loss on those assets even though there has been no actual sale of those assets;. 42. Table of Contents. <U+0095>   we may deduct our capital losses only to the extent of our capital gains and not against our ordinary income, in computing our REIT taxable income for a given taxable year;. <U+0095>   certain of our assets and liabilities are marked-to-market for U.S. GAAP purposes but not for tax purposes, which could result in losses for U.S. GAAP purposes that are not recognized in computing our REIT taxable income; and. <U+0095>   under the \"Tax Cut and Jobs Act of 2017\" (the \"TCJA\"), we generally must accrue income for U.S. federal income tax purposes no later than when such income is taken into account as revenue in our financial statements, which could create additional differences between REIT taxable income and the receipt of cash attributable to such income. Furthermore, the TCJA places a per-employee limit of $1 million on the amount of compensation that a publicly held corporation may deduct in any one year with respect to its chief executive officer and certain other highly compensated executive officers. These changes may have the effect of increasing or accelerating our REIT taxable income.. As a result of both the requirement to distribute 90% of our income each year (and to pay tax on any income that we do not distribute) and the fact that our taxable income may well exceed our cash income due to the factors mentioned above as well as other factors, we may find it difficult to meet the REIT distribution requirements in certain circumstances while also having adequate cash resources to execute our business plan. In particular, where we experience differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash, the requirement to distribute a substantial portion of our taxable income could cause us to: (i) sell assets in adverse market conditions, (ii) borrow on unfavorable terms, (iii) distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions, capital expenditures or repayment of debt or (iv) make a taxable distribution of our shares of Class A common stock as part of a distribution in which stockholders may elect to receive shares of Class A common stock or (subject to a limit measured as a percentage of the total distribution) cash, in order to comply with REIT requirements. These alternatives could increase our costs, reduce our equity, and/or result in stockholders being taxed on distributions of shares of stock without receiving cash sufficient to pay the resulting taxes. Thus, compliance with the REIT distribution requirements may hinder our ability to grow, which could adversely affect the value of our Class A common stock.. Even if we continue to qualify as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash available for distribution to stockholders.. Even if we qualify for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain U.S. federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, tax on income from some activities conducted as a result of a foreclosure, and state or local income, property and transfer taxes, such as mortgage recording taxes. We also are subject to U.S. federal and state income tax (and any applicable non-U.S. taxes) on the net income earned by our TRSs. Due to the nature of the assets in which we invest, we expect our TRSs will have a material amount of assets and net taxable income. In addition, we have substantial operations and assets outside of the U.S. that are subject to tax in those countries  -  those taxes, unless incurred by a TRS, are not likely to generate an offsetting credit for taxes in the U.S. In addition, if we have net income from \"prohibited transactions,\" that income will be subject to a 100% tax. In general, \"prohibited transactions\" are sales or other dispositions of property, other than foreclosure property, but including mortgage loans, held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. We might be subject to this tax if we were to dispose of or securitize loans in a manner that was treated as a sale of the loans for U.S. federal income tax purposes that is subject to the prohibited transactions tax. In order to avoid the prohibited transactions tax, we may choose not to engage in certain sales of loans at the REIT-level, and may limit the structures we utilize for our securitization transactions, even though such sales or structures might otherwise be beneficial to us. Finally, we could, in certain circumstances, be required to pay an excise or penalty tax (which could be significant in amount) in order to utilize one or more relief provisions under the Code to maintain our qualification as a REIT. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to our stockholders.. Complying with REIT requirements may force us to forgo and/or liquidate otherwise attractive investment opportunities.. To qualify as a REIT, we must ensure that we meet the REIT gross income tests annually and that at the end of each calendar quarter, at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and qualified REIT real estate assets, including certain mortgage loans and certain kinds of MBS. The remainder of our investment in securities (other than qualified 75% asset test assets) generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. In addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our assets (other than qualified 75% asset test assets) can consist of the securities of any one issuer, and no more than 20% of the value of our total assets can be represented by stock or securities of one or more TRSs. Debt instruments issued by \"publicly offered REITs,\" to the extent not secured by real property or interests in real property, qualify for the 75% asset test but the value of such debt instruments cannot exceed 25% of the value of our total assets. The compliance with these limitations, particularly given the nature of some of our investments, may hinder our ability to make, and, in certain cases, maintain ownership of certain attractive investments that might not qualify for the 75% asset test. If we fail to comply with the REIT asset tests requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct the failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter or qualify for certain statutory relief provisions to avoid losing our REIT qualification and suffering adverse tax consequences. As a result, we may be required to liquidate from our portfolio, or. 43. Table of Contents. contribute to a TRS, otherwise attractive investments in order to maintain our qualification as a REIT. These actions could have the effect of reducing our income, increasing our income tax liability, and reducing amounts available for distribution to our stockholders. In addition, we may be required to make distributions to stockholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution, and may be unable to pursue investments (or, in some cases, forego the sale of such investments) that would be otherwise advantageous to us in order to satisfy the source-of-income or asset-diversification requirements for qualifying as a REIT.. The \"taxable mortgage pool\" rules may increase the taxes that we or our stockholders may incur, and may limit the manner in which we effect future securitizations.. Securitizations by us or our subsidiaries could result in the creation of taxable mortgage pools for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a result, we could have \"excess inclusion income.\" In general, dividend income that a tax-exempt entity receives from us should not constitute unrelated business taxable income (\"UBTI\"), as defined in Section 512 of the Code. If, however, we realize excess inclusion income and allocate it to stockholders, then this income would be fully taxable as UBTI to a tax-exempt entity under Section 512 of the Code. A foreign stockholder would generally be subject to U.S. federal income tax withholding on this excess inclusion income without reduction pursuant to any otherwise applicable income tax treaty. U.S. stockholders would not be able to offset such income with their net operating losses.. Although the law is not entirely clear, the IRS has taken the position that we are subject to tax at the highest corporate rate on the portion of our excess inclusion income equal to the percentage of our stock held in record name by \"disqualified organizations\" (generally tax-exempt investors, such as certain state pension plans and charitable remainder trusts, that are not subject to the tax on unrelated business taxable income). To the extent that our stock owned by \"disqualified organizations\" is held in street name by a broker-dealer or other nominee, the broker-dealer or nominee would be liable for a tax at the highest corporate rate on the portion of our excess inclusion income allocable to the stock held on behalf of the \"disqualified organizations.\" A regulated investment company or other pass-through entity owning our stock may also be subject to tax at the highest corporate tax rate on any excess inclusion income allocated to their record name owners that are \"disqualified organizations.\". Excess inclusion income could result if a REIT held a residual interest in a real estate mortgage investment conduit (\"REMIC\"). In addition, excess inclusion income also may be generated if a REIT issues debt with two or more maturities and the terms of the payments of those debt instruments bear a relationship to the payments that the REIT received on mortgage loans or mortgage-backed securities securing those liabilities. If any portion of our dividends is attributable to excess inclusion income, then the tax liability of tax-exempt stockholders, non-U.S. stockholders, stockholders with net operating losses, regulated investment companies and other pass-through entities whose record name owners are disqualified organizations and brokers-dealers and other nominees who hold stock on behalf of disqualified organizations will very likely increase.. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively and may cause us to incur tax liabilities.. The REIT provisions of the Code limit our ability to hedge certain of our liabilities. Under these provisions, any income from a hedging transaction that we enter into to manage risk of interest rate changes with respect to borrowings made or to be made to acquire or carry real estate assets, or to manage the risk of certain currency fluctuations, and that is properly identified under applicable Treasury Regulations, does not constitute \"gross income\" for purposes of the 75% or 95% gross income tests. To the extent that we enter into other types of hedging transactions, the income from those transactions is likely to be treated as non-qualifying income for purposes of the REIT gross income tests. As a result of these rules, we intend to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques that do not qualify for the exclusion from the REIT gross income tests or implement those hedges through a TRS. This could increase the cost of our hedging activities because our TRS would be subject to tax on gains or expose us to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to bear. In addition, losses in our TRS will generally not provide any tax benefit, except for being carried forward against future taxable income in the TRS.. There is a risk of changes in the tax law applicable to REITs.. The IRS, the United States Treasury Department and Congress frequently review U.S. federal income tax legislation, regulations and other guidance. We cannot predict whether, when or to what extent new U.S. federal tax laws, regulations, interpretations or rulings will be adopted. Any legislative action may prospectively or retroactively modify our tax treatment and, therefore, may adversely affect our taxation or our stockholders. In particular, the TCJA makes many significant changes to the U.S. federal income tax laws that will profoundly impact the taxation of individuals and corporations (both non-REIT \"C\" corporations as well as corporations that have elected to be taxed as REITs). A number of changes that affect non-corporate taxpayers will expire at the end of 2025 unless Congress acts to extend them. These changes will impact us and our stockholders in various ways, some of which are adverse or potentially adverse compared to prior law. To date, the IRS has issued only limited guidance with respect to certain of the new provisions, and there are numerous interpretive issues that will require guidance. It is highly likely that technical corrections legislation will be needed to clarify certain aspects of the new law and give proper effect to Congressional intent. There can be no assurance, however, that technical clarifications or changes needed to prevent unintended or unforeseen tax consequences will be enacted by Congress in the near future.. 44. Table of Contents. Our ownership of assets and conduct of operations through our TRSs is limited and involves certain risks for us.. We use our TRSs to hold assets and earn income that would not be qualifying assets or income if held or earned directly by us. Apart from the fact that income from those TRSs may be subject to U.S. federal, foreign, state and local income tax on their taxable income and only their after-tax net income is available for distribution to us, our use of the TRS for this purpose is subject to certain costs, risks and limitations:. <U+0095>   No more than 20% of the value of our gross assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more TRSs.. <U+0095>   The TRS rules limit the deductibility of interest paid or accrued by a TRS to its parent REIT to assure that the TRS is subject to an appropriate level of corporate taxation. The rules also impose a 100% excise tax on certain transactions between a TRS and its parent REIT that are not conducted on an arm's-length basis.. <U+0095>   We treat income that we earn from certain foreign TRSs, including issuers in CDO transactions, as qualifying dividend income for purposes of the REIT income tests, based on several private letter rulings that the IRS has issued to other taxpayers (which technically may be relied upon only by those taxpayers), but there can be no assurance that the IRS might not successfully challenge our treatment of such income as qualifying income, in which event we might not satisfy the REIT 95% gross income test, and we either could be subject to a penalty tax with respect to some or all of that income we could fail to continue to qualify as a REIT.. <U+0095>   We generally structure our foreign TRSs with the intent that their income and operations will not be subject to U.S. federal, state and local income tax. If the IRS successfully challenged that tax treatment, it would reduce the amount that those foreign TRSs would have available to pay to their creditors and to distribute to us.. We are mindful of all of these limitations and analyze and structure the income and operations of our TRSs to mitigate these costs and risks to us to the extent practicable, but we may not always be successful in all cases.. We are restricted in our ability to transfer cash from the Company OP to the Company within two years following the Mergers without incurring adverse tax consequences.. Under the \"disguised sale\" rules that apply when a member transfers property to a limited liability company and the limited liability company transfers cash to the partner within two years of that transfer, we are restricted in our ability to transfer cash from the Company OP to the Company within two years following the Mergers, unless that transfer can qualify for an exception provided for the applicable regulations or was not contemplated at the time of the Mergers, without incurring adverse tax consequences. We do not anticipate that these rules will limit our ability to pay regular dividends from the operating cash flow of the Company OP, but they could restrict our ability to make repurchases of our Class A common stock pursuant to our previously announced stock repurchase program. We believe that we will have the capacity to make substantial repurchases, but we may not have the flexibility to repurchase as much stock as we would otherwise elect, depending upon future market conditions.. 45. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock. Our Class A common stock may not be actively traded, which could cause our Class A common stock to trade at a discount and make it difficult for holders of our Class A common stock to sell their shares.. Our shares of Class A common stock are newly issued securities that have recently been listed on the NYSE. There can be no assurance that an active trading market for our Class A common stock will develop in the near term, or if one develops, be maintained. If an active trading market does not develop and the value of those shares might be materially impaired. No assurance can be given as to the ability of our stockholders to sell their shares of our common stock or the price that our stockholders may obtain for their shares.. Some of the factors that could negatively affect the market price of our Class A common stock include:. <U+0095>   our actual or projected operating results, financial condition, cash flows and liquidity, or changes in business strategy or prospects;. <U+0095>   actual or perceived conflicts of interest with our Manager, Colony NorthStar or their affiliates and individuals, including our executives;. <U+0095>   equity issuances by us, or resales of our shares by our stockholders, or the perception that such issuances or resales may occur;. <U+0095>   loss of a major funding source;. <U+0095>   actual or anticipated accounting problems;. <U+0095>   publication of research reports about us or the real estate industry;. <U+0095>   changes in market valuations of similar companies;. <U+0095>   adverse market reaction to the level of leverage we employ;. <U+0095>   additions to or departures of our Manager's and/or Colony NorthStar's key personnel or adverse effects on the business or operations of our Manager, Colony NorthStar or their affiliates;. <U+0095>   speculation in the press or investment community;. <U+0095>   our failure to meet, or the lowering of, our earnings estimates or those of any securities analysts;. <U+0095>   increases in market interest rates, which may lead investors to demand a higher distribution yield for our Class A common stock and would result in increased interest expenses on our debt;. <U+0095>   a compression of the yield on our investments and an increase in the cost of our liabilities;. <U+0095>   failure to operate in a manner consistent with our intention to qualify as a REIT or exclusion from registration under the Investment Company Act;. <U+0095>   price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time;. <U+0095>   general market and economic conditions and trends including inflationary concerns, and the current state of the credit and capital markets;. <U+0095>   significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of publicly traded REITs or other companies in our sector, which is not necessarily related to the operating performance of these companies;. <U+0095>   changes in law, regulatory policies or tax guidelines, or interpretations thereof, particularly with respect to REITs;. <U+0095>   changes in the value of our portfolio;. 46. Table of Contents. <U+0095>   any shortfall in revenue or net income or any increase in losses from levels expected by investors or securities analysts;. <U+0095>   operating performance of companies comparable to us;. <U+0095>   short-selling pressure with respect to shares of our Class A common stock or REITs generally; and. <U+0095>   uncertainty surrounding the strength of the U.S. economic recovery, particularly in light of the recent debt ceiling and budget deficit concerns, and other U.S. and international political and economic affairs.. Any of the foregoing factors could negatively affect our stock price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our Class A common stock.. Future offerings of debt or equity securities, which would rank senior to our Class A common stock, may adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock.. If we decide to issue debt or equity securities in the future, which would rank senior to our Class A common stock, it is likely that they will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility. Additionally, any convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our Class A common stock and may result in dilution to owners of our Class A common stock. We and, indirectly, our stockholders, will bear the cost of issuing and servicing such securities. Because our decision to issue debt or equity securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus holders of our Class A common stock will bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our Class A common stock and diluting the value of their stock holdings in us.. We may issue additional equity securities, which may dilute your interest in us.. Stockholders do not have preemptive rights to any shares we issue in the future. Our charter authorizes us to issue a total of 1,000,000,000 shares of capital stock, of which 950,000,000 shares are classified as common stock and 50,000,000 shares are classified as preferred stock. Our Board of Directors, with the approval of a majority of our entire Board of Directors and without stockholder approval, may amend our charter to increase or decrease the aggregate number of authorized shares of capital stock or the number of shares of capital stock of any class or series that we are authorized to issue. Our Board of Directors may elect to: (i) sell additional shares in one or more future public offerings; (ii) issue equity interests in private offerings; (iii) issue shares to our Manager, or its successors or assigns, in payment of an outstanding fee obligation; (iv) issue shares of our common stock to sellers of assets we acquire in connection with an exchange of limited partnership interests of our operating company; or (v) issue shares of our common stock to pay distributions to existing stockholders. If we issue and sell additional shares of our Class A common stock, the ownership interests of our existing stockholders will be diluted to the extent they do not participate in the offering."
