[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors.. The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report should be carefully considered.  The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face.  Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us that we currently deem immaterial or that generally apply to all businesses also may adversely impact our business.  If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flow and liquidity could be materially adversely affected.. Risks Related to Our Company. Adverse changes in general economic conditions can negatively affect our business, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our success is dependent upon general economic conditions in the United States and in international geographic areas where a substantial number of our investments are located.  Adverse changes in economic conditions in the United States or these countries or regions would likely have a negative impact on real estate values and, accordingly, our financial performance, the market prices of our securities, and our ability to pay dividends.. The condition of the real estate markets in which we operate is cyclical and depends on the condition of the economy in the United States, Europe, China and elsewhere as a whole and to the perceptions of investors of the overall economic outlook.  Rising interest rates, declining employment levels, declining demand for real estate, declining real estate values or periods of general economic slowdown or recession, increasing political instability or uncertainty, or the perception that any of these events may occur have negatively impacted the real estate market in the past and may in the future negatively impact our operating performance.  In addition, the economic condition of each local market where we operate may depend on one or more key industries within that market, which, in turn, makes our business sensitive to the performance of those industries.. We have only a limited ability to change our portfolio promptly in response to changing economic or other conditions.  Certain significant expenditures, such as debt service costs, real estate taxes, and operating and maintenance costs, are generally not reduced when market conditions are poor.  These factors impede us from responding quickly to changes in the performance of our investments and could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We require capital in order to continue to operate and grow our business, and the failure to obtain such capital, either through the public or private markets or other third party sources of capital, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to maintain our distributions to our stockholders.. We require capital to fund acquisitions and originations of our target investments, to fund our operations, including overhead costs, to fund distributions to our stockholders and to repay principal and interest on our borrowings.  We expect to meet our capital requirements using cash on hand, cash flow generated from our operations, and principal and interest payments received from our investments.  However, because of distribution requirements imposed on us to qualify as a REIT which generally require that we distribute to our stockholders 90% of our taxable income and that we pay tax on any undistributed income, our ability to finance our growth must largely be funded by external sources of capital.  As a result, we may have to rely on third party sources of capital, including public and private offerings of securities and debt financings.. 14. Table of Contents. Our ability to raise capital through the public and private capital markets depends on a number of factors, including many that are outside our control, such as the general economic environment, the regulatory environment, competition in the marketplace and investor investment allocation preferences.  Poor performance by our Company or our managed companies could also make it more difficult for us to raise new capital.  Investors in our managed companies may decline to invest in future companies we raise, and investors may withdraw their investments in our managed companies (subject to the terms of such managed company) as a result of poor performance.  In addition, third party financing may not be available to us when needed, on favorable terms, or at all.  In the event that we are unable to obtain adequate financing to fund or grow our business, it would have a material adverse effect on our ability to acquire additional assets and make our debt service payments and our financial condition, results of operations and the ability to fund our distributions to our stockholders would be materially adversely affected.. The investment management business is intensely competitive.. The investment management business is intensely competitive, with competition based on a variety of factors, including investment performance, the quality of service provided to clients, brand recognition and business reputation.  Our investment management business competes for clients, personnel and investment opportunities with a large number of private equity funds, specialized investment funds, hedge funds, corporate buyers, traditional investment managers, commercial banks, investment banks, other investment managers and other financial institutions, and we expect that competition will increase.  Numerous factors serve to increase our competitive risks, some of which are outside of our control, including that:. • a number of our competitors have more personnel and greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do;. • many of our competitors have raised, or are expected to raise, significant amounts of capital, and many of them have investment objectives similar to ours, which may create additional competition for investment opportunities and reduce the size and duration of pricing inefficiencies that we seek to exploit;. • some of our competitors (including strategic competitors) may have a lower cost of capital and access to funding sources that are not available to us, which may create competitive disadvantages for us with respect to our managed companies, particularly our managed companies that directly use leverage or rely on debt financing of their portfolio companies to generate superior investment returns;. • some of our competitors have higher risk tolerances, different risk assessments or lower return thresholds, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and to bid more aggressively than us for investments;. • our competitors may be able to achieve synergistic cost savings in respect of an investment that we cannot, which may provide them with a competitive advantage in bidding for an investment;. • there are relatively few barriers to entry impeding new funds, and the successful efforts of new entrants into our various lines of business, including major commercial and investment banks and other financial institutions, have resulted in increased competition;. • some investors may prefer to invest with an investment manager whose equity securities are not traded on a national securities exchange;. • some investors may prefer to pursue investments directly instead of investing through one of our managed companies;. • other industry participants will from time to time seek to recruit our investment professionals and other employees away from us; and. • other investment managers may offer more products and services than we do, have more diverse sources of revenue or be more adept at developing, marketing and managing new products and services than we are.. We may find it harder to raise managed companies, and we may lose investment opportunities in the future, if we do not match the fees, structures and terms offered by competitors to their fund clients.  Alternatively, we may experience decreased profitability, rates of return and increased risk of loss if we match the prices, structures and terms offered by competitors.  This competitive pressure could adversely affect our ability to make successful. 15. Table of Contents. investments and limit our ability to raise future managed companies, either of which would adversely impact our business, revenues, results of operations and cash flow.. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to meet all of our existing or potential future debt service obligations.. Our ability to meet all of our existing or potential future debt service obligations (including those under our revolving credit facility, pursuant to which we may incur significant indebtedness), to refinance our existing or potential future indebtedness, and to fund our operations, working capital, acquisitions, capital expenditures, and other important business uses, depends on our ability to generate sufficient cash flow in the future. Our future cash flow is subject to, among other factors, general economic, industry, financial, competitive, operating, legislative, and regulatory conditions, many of which are beyond our control.. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future sources of cash will be available to us on favorable terms, or at all, in amounts sufficient to enable us to meet all of our existing or potential future debt service obligations, or to fund our other important business uses or liquidity needs. Furthermore, if we incur additional indebtedness in connection with future acquisitions or for any other purpose, our existing or potential future debt service obligations could increase significantly and our ability to meet those obligations could depend, in large part, on the returns from such acquisitions or projects, as to which no assurance can be given.. Furthermore, our obligations under the terms of our borrowings could impact us negatively.  For example, such obligations could:. • limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes;. • restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or cause us to make non-strategic divestitures;. • restrict us from paying dividends to our stockholders;. • increase our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions; and. • require a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our borrowings, thereby reducing our ability to use cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities.. We may also need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness at or prior to maturity. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness or obtain additional financing will depend on, among other things, (i) our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations, core funds from operations (\"Core FFO\") prospects, and then-current market conditions; and (ii) restrictions in the agreements governing our indebtedness. As a result, we may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness or obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all.. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and additional borrowings or refinancings are not available to us, we may be unable to meet all of our existing or potential future debt service obligations. As a result, we would be forced to take other actions to meet those obligations, such as selling properties, raising equity or delaying capital expenditures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that we will be able to effect any of these actions on favorable terms, or at all.. We depend on our key personnel, and the loss of their services, through the termination of their employment agreements, or the loss of investor confidence in such personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We depend on the efforts, skill, reputations and business contacts of our key personnel, including our executive officers, which include our Executive Chairman, Thomas J. Barrack, Jr., and our President and Chief Executive Officer, Richard B. Saltzman, in particular, and the services of the other members of our senior management team, including Ronald M. Sanders, Darren J. Tangen and Kevin P. Traenkle, each of whom has entered into an employment agreement with us.  For instance, the extent and nature of the experience of our executive officers and the nature of the relationships they have developed with real estate professionals and financial institutions are critical to the success of our business.  We cannot assure stockholders of the continued employment of these individuals with the Company.  The loss of services of certain of our executive officers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to effectively operate our business.  Furthermore, our key personnel possess substantial experience and expertise and have strong business relationships with investors in certain of our managed. 16. Table of Contents. companies and other members of the business community.  As a result, the loss of these key personnel could jeopardize such business relationships and result in the reduction of capital raising or fewer investment opportunities.. Our board of directors has adopted, and will likely continue to adopt, certain incentive plans to establish incentives that will allow us to retain and attract the services of key personnel.  These incentive plans may be tied to the performance of our Class A common stock.  Further, the agreements we entered into with certain members of our senior management team contain certain restrictions on these executives, including a restriction on engaging in activities that are deemed competitive to our business.  Although we believe these covenants to be enforceable under current law in the states in which we do business, there can be no guarantee that if our executives were to breach these covenants and engage in competitive activities, a court of law would fully enforce these restrictions.  If our executives were to terminate their employment with us and engage in competitive activities, such activities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We continue to be subject to business uncertainties following the Merger and we could fail to achieve synergies anticipated in the Merger, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Uncertainty about the effect of the Merger on employees and clients may have an adverse effect on us following the Merger.  These uncertainties could disrupt our business and impair our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel and other experienced real estate professionals, and cause clients and others that deal with us to seek to change existing business relationships, cease doing business with us or cause potential new clients to delay doing business with us.  Retention and motivation of employees may be challenging due to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with us.. Additionally, we could fail to achieve beneficial synergies expected from the Merger, or it may take longer to achieve such synergies than anticipated.  Such failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We often pursue investment opportunities that involve business, regulatory, legal or other complexities and the failure to successfully manage such risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We often pursue unusually complex investment opportunities involving substantial business, regulatory or legal complexity that would deter other investors.  Our tolerance for complexity presents risks, as such transactions can be more difficult, expensive and time-consuming to finance and execute, it can be more difficult to manage or realize value from the assets acquired in such transactions, and such transactions sometimes entail a higher level of regulatory scrutiny or a greater risk of contingent liabilities.  Failure to successfully manage these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Many of our investments may be illiquid and we may not be able to vary our investment portfolio in response to changes in economic and other conditions.. Equity investments in real estate, as well as investments in mortgage-related assets, are relatively illiquid.  As a result, our ability to vary our investment portfolio promptly in response to changed economic and other conditions is limited, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay dividends and make distributions. In addition, the liquidity of our investments may also be impacted by, among other things, restrictions on a REIT's ability to dispose of properties that are not applicable to other types of real estate companies, other legal or contractual restrictions, the lack of available financing for assets, the absence of a willing buyer or an established market and turbulent market conditions. The illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments at advantageous times or in a timely manner if the need or desire arises, including, if necessary, to maintain our status as a REIT or to maintain our exemption from the 1940 Act.  If we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have previously recorded our assets.  If and to the extent that we use leverage to finance our investments that are or become liquid, the adverse impact on us related to trying to sell assets in a short period of time for cash could be greatly exacerbated.. Changes in the debt financing markets could negatively impact our ability to obtain attractive financing or re-financing for our investments and could increase the cost of such financing if it is obtained, which could lead to lower-yielding investments and potentially decrease our net income.. A significant contraction in the market for debt financing, such as the contraction that occurred in 2008 and 2009, or other adverse changes relating to the terms of such debt financing with, for example, higher interest rates, higher. 17. Table of Contents. capital requirements and/or more restrictive covenants, particularly in the area of acquisition financings for leveraged buyout and real assets transactions, could have a material adverse impact on our business.  In the event that we are unable to obtain committed debt financing for potential acquisitions or can only obtain debt at an increased interest rate or on unfavorable terms, we may have difficulty completing otherwise profitable acquisitions or may generate profits that are lower than would otherwise be the case, either of which could lead to a decrease in the income earned by us.  Similarly, we regularly utilize the corporate debt markets in order to obtain financing for our operations.  To the extent that the credit markets render such financing difficult to obtain or more expensive, this may negatively impact our operating performance.  In addition, to the extent that the markets make it difficult or impossible to refinance debt that is maturing in the near term, we may be unable to repay such debt at maturity and may be forced to sell assets, undergo a recapitalization or seek bankruptcy protection.. Our significant operations in Europe and elsewhere expose our business to risks inherent in conducting business in foreign markets.. A significant portion of our revenues are sourced from our foreign operations in Europe and elsewhere or other foreign markets.  Accordingly, our firm-wide results of operations depend in part on our foreign operations.  Conducting business abroad carries significant risks, including:. • our REIT tax status not being respected under foreign laws, in which case any income or gains from foreign sources could be subject to foreign taxes and withholding taxes;. • restrictions and limitations relating to the repatriation of profits;. • complexity and costs of staffing and managing international operations;. • the burden of complying with multiple and potentially conflicting laws;. • changes in relative interest rates;. • translation and transaction risks related to fluctuations in foreign currency and exchange rates;. • lack of uniform accounting standards (including availability of information in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (\"GAAP\"));. • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements;. • the impact of different business cycles and economic instability;. • political instability and civil unrest;. • legal and logistical barriers to enforcing our contractual rights, including in perfecting our security interests, collecting accounts receivable, foreclosing on secured assets and protecting our interests as a creditor in bankruptcies in certain geographic regions;. • share ownership restrictions on foreign operations; and. • geographic, time zone, language and cultural differences between personnel in different areas of the world.. Each of these risks might adversely affect our performance and impair our ability to make distributions to our stockholders required to qualify and remain qualified as a REIT.  In addition, there is generally less publicly available information about foreign companies and a lack of uniform financial accounting standards and practices (including the availability of information in accordance with GAAP) which could impair our ability to analyze transactions and receive timely and accurate financial information from our investments necessary to meet our reporting obligations to financial institutions or governmental or regulatory agencies.. Concerns persist regarding the debt burden of certain Eurozone countries and their ability to meet future financial obligations, the overall stability of the euro and the suitability of the euro as a single currency, given the diverse economic and political circumstances in individual Eurozone countries and in recent declines and volatility in the value of the euro.  These concerns could lead to the re-introduction of individual currencies in one or more Eurozone countries, or, in more extreme circumstances, the possible dissolution of the euro currency entirely.  Should the euro dissolve entirely, the legal and contractual consequences for holders of euro-denominated obligations would be uncertain.  Such uncertainty would extend to among other things, whether obligations previously expressed to be owed and payable in euros would be re-denominated in a new currency, what laws would govern and the courts of which. 18. Table of Contents. country would have jurisdiction.  These potential developments, or market perceptions concerning these and related issues, could materially adversely affect the value of our euro-denominated assets and obligations.. In addition, increased uncertainty in the wake of the \"Brexit\" referendum in the United Kingdom in June 2016, in which the majority of voters voted in favor of an exit from the European Union, has resulted in an increase in volatility in the global financial markets.  Uncertainty about global or regional economic conditions poses a risk as consumers and businesses may postpone spending in response to tighter credit, negative financial news, and declines in income or asset values, which could adversely affect the availability of financing, our business and our results of operations.. We are subject to substantial litigation risks and may face significant liabilities and damage to our professional reputation as a result of litigation allegations and negative publicity.. In the ordinary course of business, we are subject to the risk of substantial litigation and face significant regulatory oversight.  Such litigation and proceedings, including, among others, regulatory actions and shareholder class action suits relating to transactions in which we have agreed to acquire public companies, may result in defense costs, settlements, fines or judgments against us, some of which may not be covered by insurance. Litigation could be more likely in connection with a change of control transaction or during periods of market dislocation or shareholder activism.  Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and regulatory proceedings, we cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such litigation or proceedings.  An unfavorable outcome could negatively impact our cash flow, financial condition, results of operations and trading price of our shares of Class A common stock.. In addition, even in the absence of misconduct, we may be exposed to litigation or other adverse consequences where investments perform poorly and investors in or alongside our managed companies experience losses.  We depend to a large extent on our business relationships and our reputation for integrity and high-caliber professional services to attract and retain investors and to pursue investment opportunities for us and our managed companies.  As a result, allegations of improper conduct by private litigants (including investors in or alongside our managed companies) or regulators, whether the ultimate outcome is favorable or unfavorable to us, as well as negative publicity and press speculation about us, our investment activities or the private equity industry in general, whether or not valid, may harm our reputation, which may be more damaging to our business than to other types of businesses.. The historical financial information included in this Annual Report is not necessarily indicative of our future performance.. The historical financial information included in this Annual Report is not necessarily indicative of our future financial results, in particular because the historical financial information is related only to Colony.  This financial information does not purport to represent or predict the results of any future periods.. Further, the results of future periods are likely to be materially different as a result of:. • future growth that does not follow our historical trends;. • changes in the economic environment, competitive landscape and financial markets;. • new and additional costs and expenses attributable to our operations, including our operations as a public company, an adviser and a company within an extensively regulated industry; and. • the transitions we continue to undergo as a result of the Merger.. We are subject to significant competition and we may not be able to compete successfully for investments.. We are subject to significant competition for attractive investment opportunities from other real estate investors, some of which have greater financial resources than us, including publicly-traded REITs, non-traded REITs, insurance companies, commercial and investment banking firms, private institutional funds, hedge funds, private equity funds and other investors. We may not be able to compete successfully for investments. In addition, the number of entities and the amount of funds competing for suitable investments may increase. For example, a significant portion of the assets that were acquired in the Merger were acquired during periods of increased competition in 2014 and 2015.  To the extent  we paid higher prices for such investments or originated loans on less advantageous terms to us, or are required to do so in the future, due to increased competition, our returns may be lower and the value of our assets may not increase or may decrease significantly below the amount we paid for such assets. Further, as we reinvest capital, we may not realize risk adjusted returns that are as attractive as those we have realized in the past due to decreased competition for such investments or otherwise. If such events occur, we may experience lower returns on our investments.. 19. Table of Contents. Failure to implement effective information and cyber security policies, procedures and capabilities could disrupt our business and harm our results of operations.. We are dependent on the effectiveness of our information and cyber security policies, procedures and capabilities to protect our computer and telecommunications systems and the data that resides on or is transmitted through them.  An externally caused information security incident, such as a hacker attack, virus or worm, or an internally caused issue, such as failure to control access to sensitive systems, could materially interrupt business operations or cause disclosure or modification of sensitive or confidential information and could result in material financial loss, loss of competitive position, regulatory actions, breach of contracts, reputational harm or legal liability.  Furthermore, as an asset manager our business is highly dependent on information technology systems, including systems provided by third parties over which we have no control.  Various measures have been implemented to manage our risks related to the information technology systems, but any failure or interruption of our systems could cause delays or other problems in our activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance.  Potential sources for disruption, damage or failure of our information technology systems include, without limitation, computer viruses, security breaches, human error, cyber-attacks, natural disasters and defects in design.. If we are unable to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (\"Sarbanes-Oxley Act\"), or our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, the reliability of our financial statements may be questioned and our stock price may suffer.. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires any company subject to the reporting requirements of the U.S. securities laws to do a comprehensive evaluation of its and its consolidated subsidiaries' internal control over financial reporting.  To comply with this statute, we are required to document and test our internal control procedures, our management is required to assess and issue a report concerning our internal control over financial reporting and our independent auditors are required to issue an opinion on their audit of our internal control over financial reporting.  The rules governing the standards that must be met for management to assess our internal control over financial reporting are complex and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation to meet the detailed standards under the rules.  During the course of its testing, our management may identify material weaknesses or deficiencies which may not be remedied in time to meet the deadline imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.  If our management cannot favorably assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting or our auditors identify material weaknesses in our internal controls, investor confidence in our financial results may weaken and our stock price may suffer.  For instance, accounting irregularities recently discovered at other companies have caused the SEC to launch an inquiry, stockholders to initiate lawsuits, executives to resign, the stock price to significantly decrease and the firm's reputation to be questioned by stockholders and the press.. Increases in interest rates could adversely affect the value of our investments and cause our interest expense to increase, which could result in reduced earnings or losses and negatively affect our profitability as well as the cash available for distribution to our stockholders.. The value of our investments in certain assets may decline if long-term interest rates increase. Declines in the value of our investments may ultimately reduce earnings or result in losses to us, which may negatively affect cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Significant increases in interest rates may, among other things, increase the credit risk of our assets by negatively impacting the ability of the borrowers to pay debt service on our floating rate loan assets or our ability to refinance our assets upon maturity, negatively impact the value of the real estate collateralizing our investments (or the real estate we own directly) through the impact such increases can have on property valuation capitalization rates and decrease the value of our fixed-rate debt investments.. In addition, in a period of rising interest rates, our operating results will partially depend on the difference between the income from our assets and financing costs.  We anticipate that, in some cases, the income from such assets will respond more slowly to interest rate fluctuations than the cost of our borrowings.  Consequently, changes in interest rates, particularly short-term interest rates, may significantly influence our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income we earn on our interest-earning investments and the interest expense we incur in financing these investments.  Increases in these rates could decrease our net income and the market value of our assets.. Rising interest rates may also affect the yield on our investments or target investments and the financing cost of our debt. If rising interest rates cause us to be unable to acquire a sufficient volume of our target investments with a yield that is above our borrowing cost, our ability to satisfy our investment objectives and to generate income and pay dividends may be materially and adversely affected.  Due to the foregoing, significant fluctuations in interest rates. 20. Table of Contents. could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial conditions and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Securities. The market price of our Class A common stock has been and may continue to be volatile and holders of our Class A common stock could lose all or a significant portion of their investment due to drops in the market price of our Class A common stock.. The market price of our Class A common stock has been and may continue to be volatile, especially as a result of the Merger.  Our stockholders may not be able to resell their common stock at or above the implied price at which they acquired such common stock pursuant to the merger agreement or otherwise due to fluctuations in the market price of our Class A common stock, including changes in market price caused by factors unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. This volatility and other factors may also induce stockholder activism, which has been increasing in publicly traded companies in recent years and could materially disrupt our business, operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. Specific factors that may have a significant effect on the market price of our Class A common stock include, among others, the following:. • changes in stock market analyst recommendations or earnings estimates regarding our Class A common stock, other companies comparable to it or companies in the industries we serve;. • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results or future prospects;. • reactions to public announcements by us;. • changes in our dividend policy;. • impairment charges affecting the carrying value of one or more of our investments;. • strategic actions taken by our company or our competitors, such as the intended business separations, acquisitions or restructurings;. • failure of our company to achieve the perceived benefits of the transactions, including financial results and anticipated synergies, as rapidly as or to the extent anticipated by financial or industry analysts;. • adverse conditions in the financial market or general U.S. or international economic conditions, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism and responses to such events; and. • sales of common stock by our Company, members of our management team or significant stockholders.. We may issue additional equity securities, which may dilute your interest in us.. In order to expand our business, we may consider offering Class A common stock and securities that are convertible into our Class A common stock and may issue additional common stock in connection with acquisitions or joint ventures.  If we issue and sell additional shares of our Class A common stock, the ownership interests of our existing stockholders will be diluted to the extent they do not participate in the offering.  The number of shares of Class A common stock that we may issue for cash in non-public offerings without stockholder approval will be limited by the rules of the NYSE.  However, we may issue and sell shares of our Class A common stock in public offerings, and there generally are exceptions that allow companies to issue a limited number of equity securities in private offerings without stockholder approval, which could dilute your ownership.. Our board of directors may modify our authorized shares of stock of any class or series and may create and issue a class or series of common stock or preferred stock without stockholder approval.. Our Articles of Amendment and Restatement (our \"Charter\") authorizes our board of directors to, without stockholder approval, classify any unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock; reclassify any previously classified, but unissued, shares of common stock or preferred stock into one or more classes or series of stock; and issue such shares of stock so classified or reclassified.  Our board of directors may determine the relative rights, preferences, and privileges of any class or series of common stock or preferred stock issued.  As a result, we may issue series or classes of common stock or preferred stock with preferences, dividends, powers, and rights (voting or otherwise) senior to the rights of current holders of our Class A common stock.  The issuance of any such classes or series of common stock or preferred stock could also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control transaction that might otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders.. 21. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Our Organizational Structure and Business Operations. At the closing of the Merger, we assumed liabilities and obligations of NSAM, Colony and NRF.. In connection with the Merger, we assumed the liabilities and obligations of NSAM, Colony and NRF, including NRF's obligations under its exchangeable senior notes and Colony's obligations under its convertible notes.  These liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business to the extent each of NSAM, Colony and NRF did not identify such liabilities or underestimated the nature, amount or significance, based on amount or otherwise, of such liabilities.. Thomas J. Barrack, Jr., our Executive Chairman, controls a significant number of votes in any matter presented to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors.. In connection with the acquisition on April 2, 2015 by Colony's operating partnership of substantially all of the real estate and investment management businesses and operations of Colony Capital, LLC (\"CCLLC\"), Mr. Barrack was issued shares of Colony's class B common stock which had additional voting rights.  In the Merger, such Colony class B common stock was exchanged for shares of our Class B Common Stock.  Mr. Barrack controls a significant number of votes in matters submitted to a vote of stockholders, including the election of directors, as a result of his beneficial ownership of our Class B Common Stock.  Mr. Barrack may have interests that differ from our other stockholders and may vote in ways that may not be consistent with the interests of those other stockholders.. Our tax protection agreement could limit our ability to sell certain properties, engage in a strategic transaction or reduce our level of indebtedness, which could materially and adversely affect us.. At the closing of the Merger, CCLLC, CCH Management Partners I, LLC, FHB Holding LLC and Richard B. Saltzman, each of which we refer to as a protected member, entered into a tax protection agreement with the Company and the OP (the \"TPA\").  The TPA provides that each protected member is indemnified on an after-tax basis for any Section 704(c) gain, calculated as provided in the TPA, as a result of a transaction occurring during the period commencing on June 3, 2016 and ending on the fifth anniversary of the closing of the Merger and that is considered to be a sale of the tax goodwill, going concern value or airplane owned by the OP and contributed (directly or indirectly) by such protected members, which we refer to, collectively, as the protected property, other than on transfers to the protected members or persons or entities related to the protected members.  The TPA also applies to a merger or other transaction that would convert interests in the OP held by the protected members to cash or otherwise result in a taxable disposition of such interests, but does not apply to a transaction in which the equity interests of the protected members are maintained in a manner that does not trigger gain or offers the protected members the option to roll over their investment into an equity interest that is substantially equivalent (including value, profit and loss share, distribution rights and liquidity) to the equity interests exchanged in such transaction.. If our tax indemnification obligations are triggered under these agreements, we will be required to pay damages for the resulting tax consequences to the protected members and the calculation of damages will not be based on the time value of money or the time remaining within the restricted period.  Moreover, these obligations may restrict our ability to engage in a strategic transaction.  In addition, these obligations may require us to maintain more or different indebtedness than we would otherwise require for our business.  The OP estimates that if all of its assets subject to the TPA are sold in a taxable transaction, its indemnification obligations (based on tax rates applicable for the taxable year ended December 31, 2017 and exchange values and including additional payments to compensate the protected members for additional tax liabilities resulting from the indemnification payments) would be approximately $410 million.. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of our strategic partnerships and joint ventures.. We have and may continue to enter into strategic partnerships and joint ventures to support the significant growth of our business.  We may also make investments in partnerships or other co-ownership arrangements or participations with third parties.  In connection with our investments, our partners provide, among other things, property management, investment advisory, sub-advisory and other services to us and certain of the companies that we manage.  We may not realize any of the anticipated benefits of our strategic partnerships and joint ventures.  Such investments and any future strategic partnerships and/or joint ventures subject us and the companies we manage to risks and uncertainties not otherwise present with other methods of investment.  In addition, the controlling partner(s) may be able to take actions which are not in our best interests or the best interests of the investments we manage because of our lack of full control.  Furthermore, to the extent that our joint venture partner provides services to the companies we manage, certain conflicts of interest will exist.  Moreover, we may decide to terminate a strategic relationship or joint venture partner, which could be. 22. Table of Contents. costly and time-consuming for our management team.  Any of the above might subject us to liabilities and thus reduce our returns on our investment with that joint venture partner.  In addition, disagreements or disputes between us and our joint venture partner could result in litigation, which could increase our expenses and potentially limit the time and effort our officers and directors are able to devote to our business.. We are not required to meet any diversification standards; therefore, our investments may become subject to concentration risks.. Subject to our intention to maintain our qualification as a REIT, there are no limitations on the number or value of particular types of investments that we may make.  We are not required to meet any diversification standards, including geographic diversification standards.  Therefore, our investments may become concentrated in type or geographic location, which could subject us to significant concentration risks with potentially adverse effects on our investment objectives.. Risks Related to Our Incorporation in Maryland. The stock ownership limits imposed by the Code for REITs and our Charter may restrict our business combination opportunities.. In order for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT under the Code, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Code to include certain entities) at any time during the last half of each taxable year following our first year.  Our Charter, with certain exceptions, authorizes our board of directors to take those actions that are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT.  In order to assist us in complying with the limitations on the concentration of ownership of REIT stock imposed by the Code, our Charter generally prohibits any person (other than a person who has been granted an exemption) from actually or constructively owning more than 9.8% of the aggregate of the outstanding shares of our capital stock (as defined in our Charter) by value or 9.8% of the aggregate of the outstanding shares of our common stock (as defined in our Charter) by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive.  Our board of directors may, in its sole discretion, grant an exemption to the ownership limits, subject to certain conditions and the receipt by our board of directors of certain representations and undertakings.  The ownership limits imposed under the Code are based upon direct or indirect ownership by \"individuals,\" but only during the last half of a tax year.  The ownership limits contained in our Charter are based on the ownership at any time by any \"person,\" which term includes entities.  These ownership limitations are common in REIT charters and are intended to provide added assurance of compliance with the tax law requirements, and to minimize administrative burdens.  However, the ownership limit on our common stock might also delay or prevent a transaction or a change in our control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders, and the proposed reduction in the ownership limit could further restrict such transactions that may otherwise not be so delayed or prevented.. Certain provisions of Maryland law could inhibit changes in control.. Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law (\"MGCL\"), may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or impeding a change of control that could provide our stockholders with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our common stock, including:. • \"business combination\" provisions that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between us and an \"interested stockholder\" (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our outstanding voting stock), or an affiliate thereof, for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, and thereafter imposes special appraisal rights and supermajority voting requirements on these combinations; and. • \"control share\" provisions that provide that holders of \"control shares\" of our company (defined as voting shares which, when aggregated with all other shares owned or controlled by the stockholder, entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a \"control share acquisition\" (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of issued and outstanding \"control shares\") have no voting rights except to the extent approved by our stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares.. The statute permits various exemptions from its provisions, including business combinations that are exempted by a board of directors prior to the time that the \"interested stockholder\" becomes an interested stockholder.  Our board of directors has, by resolution, exempted any business combination between us and any person who is an existing, or becomes in the future, an \"interested stockholder,\" provided that any such business combination is first approved by our. 23. Table of Contents. board of directors (including a majority of the directors of our company who are not affiliates or associates of such person).  Consequently, the five-year prohibition and the supermajority vote requirements will not apply to business combinations between us and any such person.  As a result, such person may be able to enter into business combinations with us that may not be in the best interest of our stockholders, without compliance with the supermajority vote requirements and the other provisions of the statute.  Additionally, this resolution may be altered, revoked or repealed in whole or in part at any time and we may opt back into the business combination provisions of the MGCL.  If this resolution is revoked or repealed, the statute may discourage others from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer.  In the case of the control share provisions of the MGCL, we have elected to opt out of these provisions of the MGCL pursuant to a provision in our bylaws.. Conflicts of interest may exist or could arise in the future with the OP and its members, which may impede business decisions that could benefit our stockholders.. Conflicts of interest may exist or could arise as a result of the relationships between us and our affiliates, on the one hand, and the OP or any member thereof, on the other.  Our directors and officers have duties to our Company and our stockholders under applicable Maryland law in connection with their management of our Company.  At the same time, Colony NorthStar, as sole managing member of the OP, has fiduciary duties to the OP and to its members under Delaware law in connection with the management of the OP.  Our duties to the OP and its members, as the sole managing member, may come into conflict with the duties of our directors and officers to our Company and our stockholders.  These conflicts may be resolved in a manner that is not in the best interest of our stockholders.. Risks Related to Our Managed Companies. Our ability to raise capital and attract investors at our current and any future managed companies is critical to their success and consequently our ability to grow our investment management business.. The fee income generated from or expected to be generated from our current and future managed companies is driven, both directly and indirectly, by the ability to raise capital at such companies, which is dependent on a number of factors, certain of which are substantially the same as those that may impact the ability to raise capital at our company.  In addition, for our managed companies that raise capital through the retail market, the ability to raise capital has been and is expected to continue to be negatively impacted by regulatory changes, changes in market receptivity to illiquid investments with similar fee or compensation structures and regulatory scrutiny. In addition, the poor performance of our Company and any of our current or future managed companies could also make it more difficult for our managed companies to raise new capital.  In the event that our current and future managed companies are not able to raise new capital, our ability to grow our investment management business will be materially adversely affected.. Poor performance of our current and future managed companies could cause a decline in our revenue, income and cash flow.. The fee arrangements we have with certain of our managed companies are based on the respective performance of such companies.  As a result, poor performance or a decrease in value of assets under management of such managed companies (or any companies we may manage in the future with similar performance-based fees) would result in a reduction of our investment management and other fees, carried interest and/or other incentive fees and consequently cause our revenue, income and cash flow to decline.  Further, to the extent that we have an investment in a managed company, poor performance at such company could cause us to suffer losses on such investments of our own capital.. Investors in our current or future managed companies may negotiate less favorable terms to us than those of managed companies we currently manage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. In connection with sponsoring new managed companies or securing additional capital commitments in existing managed companies, we will negotiate terms for such managed companies and commitments from investors.  In addition, we have agreed and may in the future agree to re-negotiate terms in the agreements with our managed companies due to performance of such managed companies or other market conditions.  The outcome of such negotiations could result in our agreement to terms that are materially less favorable to us economically than the existing terms of our managed companies or companies advised by our competitors.  In addition, we may need to record an impairment in the goodwill associated with such agreement.  Further, we may also agree to terms that could restrict our ability to sponsor competing managed companies, increase our obligations as the manager or require us to take on additional potential liabilities. Agreement to terms that are materially less favorable to us could result in a decrease in our profitability, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 24. Table of Contents. Certain of the management agreements with our managed companies are subject to limitation or termination, and any such termination could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The agreements under which we provide management and other services to companies that raise capital through the retail market are renewable upon mutual consent of the parties for an unlimited number of successive one-year periods.  These agreements may generally be terminated by such managed company immediately for cause, or upon 60 days' written notice, without cause or for good reason, and expire on an annual basis, unless otherwise renewed.  Further, we anticipate that our managed retail companies will pursue a liquidity transaction in the future and, if successful, certain liquidity transactions could result in termination or expiration of these agreements.  There can be no assurance that these agreements will not expire or be terminated.  Any such termination or expiration could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.. We are subject to risks and liabilities in connection with sponsoring, investing in and managing new institutional funds.. We sponsor, manage and serve as general partner and/or manager of new institutional funds.  Such sponsorship and management of, and investment in, these institutional funds may involve risks not otherwise present with a direct investment in such fund's target investments, including, for example:. • the possibility that investors in the institutional funds might become bankrupt or otherwise be unable to meet their capital commitment obligations;. • that operating and/or management agreements of an institutional fund often restrict our ability to transfer or liquidate our interest when we desire or on advantageous terms;. • that our relationships with the investors will be generally contractual in nature and may be terminated or dissolved under the terms of the agreements, or we may be removed as general partner and manager (with or without cause), and in such event, we may not continue to manage or invest in the applicable institutional fund;. • that disputes between us and the investors may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our officers and directors from focusing their time and effort on our business and result in subjecting the investments owned by the applicable institutional fund to additional risk; and. • that we may incur liability for obligations of an institutional fund by reason of being its general partner or manager.. Valuation methodologies for certain assets in our managed institutional funds can involve subjective judgments, and the fair value of assets established pursuant to such methodologies may be incorrect, which could result in the misstatement of performance and accrued performance fees of an institutional fund.. There are often no readily ascertainable market prices for a substantial majority of illiquid investments of our managed institutional funds.  We determine the fair value of the investments of each of our institutional funds at least quarterly based on the fair value guidelines set forth by GAAP.  The fair value measurement accounting guidance establishes a hierarchal disclosure framework that ranks the observability of market inputs used in measuring financial instruments at fair value.  The observability of inputs is impacted by a number of factors, including the type of financial instrument, the characteristics specific to the financial instrument and the state of the marketplace, including the existence and transparency of transactions between market participants.  Financial instruments with readily available quoted prices, or for which fair value can be measured from quoted prices in active markets, will generally have a higher degree of market price observability and a lesser degree of judgment applied in determining fair value.. Investments for which market prices are not observable include, but are not limited to, illiquid investments in operating companies, real estate, energy ventures and structured vehicles, and encompass all components of the capital structure, including equity, mezzanine, debt, preferred equity and derivative instruments such as options and warrants.  Fair values of such investments are determined by reference to the market approach (i.e., multiplying a key performance metric of the investee company or asset, such as EBITDA, by a relevant valuation multiple observed in the range of comparable public entities or transactions, adjusted by management as appropriate for differences between the investment and the referenced comparables), the income approach (i.e., discounting projected future cash flows of the investee company or asset and/or capitalizing representative stabilized cash flows of the investee company or asset) and other methodologies such as prices provided by reputable dealers or pricing services, option pricing models and replacement costs.. The determination of fair value using these methodologies takes into consideration a range of factors including but not limited to the price at which the investment was acquired, the nature of the investment, local market conditions, the. 25. Table of Contents. multiples of comparable securities, current and projected operating performance and financing transactions subsequent to the acquisition of the investment.  These valuation methodologies involve a significant degree of management judgment.  For example, as to investments that we share with another sponsor, we may apply a different valuation methodology than the other sponsor does or derive a different value than the other sponsor has derived on the same investment, which could cause some investors to question our valuations.. Because there is significant uncertainty in the valuation of, or stability of the value of, illiquid investments, the fair values of such investments as reflected in an institutional fund's net asset value do not necessarily reflect the prices that would be obtained by us on behalf of the institutional fund when such investments are realized.  Realizations at values significantly lower than the values at which investments have been reflected in prior institutional fund net asset values would result in reduced earnings or losses for the applicable fund, the loss of potential carried interest and incentive fees and in the case of our hedge funds, management fees.  Changes in values attributed to investments from quarter to quarter may result in volatility in the net asset values and results of operations that we report from period to period.  Also, a situation where asset values turn out to be materially different than values reflected in prior institutional fund net asset values could cause investors to lose confidence in us, which could in turn result in difficulty in raising additional institutional funds.. Misconduct by third party selling broker-dealers or our broker-dealer sales force could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We rely on selling broker-dealers and our broker-dealer sales force to properly offer equity securities in our current and future sponsored companies raising capital through retail markets to investors in compliance with the applicable selling agreements and with applicable legal and regulatory requirements.  While these persons are responsible for their activities as registered broker-dealers, their actions may nonetheless result in complaints or legal or regulatory action against us.  These actions could also directly or indirectly harm the industry generally or our reputation specifically, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.  While we may have indemnification obligations under certain selling agreements and dealer agreements for misconduct by such broker-dealers, such indemnification may not fully cover our losses and any such shortfall or delay in receiving any indemnification proceeds could have a material adverse effect on our business.. The organization and management of our current and future managed companies may create conflicts of interest.. We currently manage, and may in the future manage, REITs and other entities that have investment and/or rate of return objectives similar to our own.  Those entities may be in competition with us with respect to investment opportunities, potential purchasers, sellers and lessees of properties, and mortgage financing opportunities.  We have agreed to implement certain procedures to help manage any perceived or actual conflicts among us and our managed companies, including the following:. • allocating investment opportunities based on numerous factors, including investment objectives, available cash, diversification/concentration, leverage policy, the size of the investment, tax, anticipated pipeline of suitable investments and fund life;. • all co-investment transactions with managed companies are subject to the approval of the independent directors of such managed company or previously approved in applicable company documentation, as the case may be; and. • investment allocations are reviewed at least annually by the chief compliance officer of our applicable registered investment adviser and/or the board of directors of the applicable managed company, as the case may be.. In addition, subject to compliance with the rules promulgated under the Investment Advisers Act, we may allow a managed company to enter into principal transactions with us or cross-transactions with other managed companies or strategic vehicles.  For certain cross-transactions, we may receive a fee from the managed company and conflicts may exist.  If our interests and those of our managed companies are not aligned, we may face conflicts of interests that result in action or inaction that is detrimental to us, our managed companies, our strategic partnerships or our joint ventures.. Appropriately dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult and our reputation could be damaged if we fail, or appear to fail, to deal appropriately with one or more potential or actual conflicts of interest.  Regulatory scrutiny of, or litigation in connection with, conflicts of interest would have a material adverse effect on our reputation, which would materially adversely affect our business and our ability to raise capital in future managed companies.. Conflicts of interest may also arise in the allocation of fees and costs among our managed companies that we incur in connection with the management of their assets.  This allocation sometimes requires us to exercise discretion and there is no guarantee that we will allocate these fees and costs appropriately.. 26. Table of Contents. In addition to the management fees we receive from our managed companies, we are reimbursed by the publicly traded and retail companies we manage for costs and expenses we incur on their behalf, including certain indirect personnel and employment costs that we may allocate to such managed companies and disputes could arise in connection with those allocations.. We are paid substantial fees for the services we and our subsidiaries provide to our managed companies and we are also reimbursed by the publicly-traded and retail companies we manage for certain costs and expenses we incur and pay on their behalf.  Such managed companies reimburse us, subject to certain limitations and exceptions, for both direct expenses as well as indirect costs, including our personnel and employment costs.  The costs and expenses that we allocate to our publicly-traded and retail companies can be substantial and may involve subjective judgment and discretion.  There are conflicts of interest that arise when we make allocation determinations.  These conflicts of interest, as well as the loyalties of our executives and other real estate and finance professionals to other entities and investors, could result in action or inaction that is detrimental to our business, which could harm the implementation of our business strategy and our reputation.  For the year ended December 31, 2017, we allocated $19.5 million in costs to NorthStar Realty Europe Corp. and our retail companies, in the aggregate.  These managed companies could dispute the amount of costs we allocate to them and the methodologies we use to determine those amounts.  Any dispute or investigation regarding our allocation of costs and expenses could be distracting, expensive and harmful to our reputation as well as have other adverse effects on our company and future operating performance, including the potential that such managed companies could seek to terminate their relationship with us.. The adoption by the U.S. Department of Labor (\"DOL\"), of certain amendments to the definition of \"fiduciary\" under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (\"ERISA\"), could adversely affect our ability to raise capital through public offerings of our retail companies.. In 2016, the DOL adopted certain amendments to the definition of \"fiduciary\" under ERISA and the Code.  The proposed amendments have broadened the definition of \"fiduciary\" and made a number of changes to the prohibited transaction exemptions relating to investments by employee benefit plans subject to Title I of ERISA or retirement plans or accounts subject to Section 4975 of the Code (including individual retirement accounts, or IRAs).  The amendments became effective in 2016, with implementation commencing in April 2017 and continuing through January 2018.  On February 3, 2017, a Presidential Memorandum was issued directing the DOL to, among other things, examine the fiduciary duty rule to determine whether it may adversely affect the ability of Americans to gain access to market information and financial advice.  The outcome of this review by the DOL and ultimate impact of the amendments are not yet known, but if the amendments are implemented, they, could negatively impact our ability to raise funds through public offerings of our managed retail companies and our operations, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Non-traded REITs and business development companies are subject to significant scrutiny by federal and state regulators, including FINRA, the DOL and the SEC, and have been subjected to significant regulatory changes in recent years which have inhibited capital raising.  These changes and any future changes in regulations could negatively impact the ability of our non-traded sponsored companies to raise substantial funds which will limit the number and type of investments they may make and their ability to diversify their assets.. In recent years regulators have scrutinized non-traded REITs and business development companies and their capital raising practices.  This scrutiny has resulted in changes in regulations which have adversely impacted capital raising by non-traded companies.  For example, amendments to FINRA rules regarding customer account statements were approved by the SEC and became effective on April 11, 2016.  These amendments have significantly affected the manner in which non-traded companies raise capital and may have contributed to a significant reduction in capital raised by non-traded companies.  In addition, recent amendments adopted by the DOL to fiduciary and other standards on sales practices of broker-dealers and the impact of such rules, if implemented, could adversely affect the ability of our managed companies to raise additional capital. Furthermore, if we or the non-traded companies we manage become the subject of scrutiny, even if we have complied with all applicable laws and regulations, responding to such scrutiny could be expensive, harmful to our reputation and distracting to our management.. Future regulations, including possible SEC rules requiring fiduciary standards for broker-dealers, could also adversely affect the ability of our sponsored companies to raise additional capital.  Should these companies be unable to raise substantial funds in their offerings, the number and type of investments they may make will be curtailed, all of which could materially adversely affect the fee income generated from our broker-dealer that acts as the dealer manager of these offerings as well as the asset management and other fees we earn and the nature of the transactions undertaken by the non-traded companies we manage which would adversely affect our ability to grow our business.. 27. Table of Contents. Our ownership of approximately 37% of Colony NorthStar Credit, on a fully diluted basis, subjects us to various risks, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. In consideration for our contribution of the CLNS Contributed Portfolio, we received approximately 44.4 million shares of Class B-3 Common Stock of Colony NorthStar Credit and approximately 3.1 million CLNC OP Units, which represents approximately 37% of Colony NorthStar Credit's total outstanding shares on a fully diluted basis.  The Class B-3 Common Stock will automatically convert, on a one-for-one basis, into shares of Colony NorthStar Credit's Class A common stock, which is listed on the NYSE, upon the close of trading on February 1, 2019. The CLNC OP Units are redeemable for cash or Class A common stock of Colony NorthStar Credit, in Colony NorthStar Credit's sole discretion. Subject to certain limited exceptions, we have agreed not to make any transfers of the CLNC OP Units to non-affiliates until the one year anniversary of the closing of the Combination, unless such transfer is approved by a majority of Colony NorthStar Credit's board of directors, including a majority of the independent directors.. Based on the trading price of Colony NorthStar Credit's Class A common shares as of February 26, 2018, our investment in Colony NorthStar Credit has a value of approximately $968 million.  Although we are the external manager to Colony NorthStar Credit and have three representatives who are our senior executives on Colony NorthStar Credit's board of directors, our role as manager is under the supervision and direction of Colony NorthStar Credit's board of directors, which has a total of seven members, a majority of whom are independent.  In addition, until the later of the two year anniversary of the closing of the Combination and the second annual meeting of stockholders of Colony NorthStar Credit, we have agreed to cause our shares of Colony NorthStar Credit common stock to be voted in favor of the director nominees recommended by the Colony NorthStar Credit board.  Therefore, the value of our investment is subject to the strategies and management decisions of the Colony NorthStar Credit board of directors as a whole, as well as the trading price of Colony NorthStar Credit's Class A common shares on the NYSE.. Moreover, Colony NorthStar Credit owns and expects to continue to originate, acquire, finance and manage a diversified portfolio of commercial real estate debt and net lease real estate investments predominantly in the United States.  As a result, our investment in Colony NorthStar Credit exposes us to the same risks that we are subject to as a result of our other equity and debt segment, as further described in \"Risk Factors - Risks Related to Our Other Equity and Debt Business.\"  If any of the foregoing risks were to occur, our investment in Colony NorthStar Credit could decline in value and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. Risks Related to Our Healthcare Business. Approximately 37% of our real estate investments are concentrated in healthcare properties, which increases the likelihood of risks related to owning healthcare real estate properties becoming more material to our business and results of operations.. Healthcare real estate properties currently represent approximately 37% of our real estate portfolio.  As a result of this concentration of healthcare real estate properties, our exposure to the risks inherent in investments in the healthcare sector has also increased, making us more vulnerable to a downturn or slowdown in the healthcare sector.  We cannot be certain that our tenants, operators and managers will achieve and maintain occupancy and rate levels that will enable them to satisfy their obligations to us.  We also cannot assure you that future changes in government regulation will not adversely affect the healthcare industry.  Any adverse changes in the regulation of the healthcare industry or the competitiveness of our tenants, operators and managers could have a more pronounced effect on us than if our investments were more diversified.. We do not control the operations of our healthcare properties and are therefore dependent on the tenants/operators/managers of our healthcare properties to successfully operate their businesses.. Our healthcare properties are typically operated by healthcare operators pursuant to net leases or by an independent third party manager pursuant to management agreements.  As a result, we are unable to directly implement strategic business decisions with respect to the daily operation and marketing of our healthcare properties.  While we have various rights as the property owner under our leases or management agreements and monitor the tenants/operators/managers' performance, we may have limited recourse under our leases or management agreements if we believe that the tenants/operators/managers are not performing adequately.  Failure by the tenants/operators/managers to adequately manage the risks associated with operations of healthcare properties could result in defaults under our borrowings and otherwise affect adversely our results of operations.  As of December 31, 2017, $341.9 million in aggregate principal amount of our nonrecourse borrowings were in default as a result of the failure of our tenants, operators or managers to satisfy certain performance thresholds or other covenants.  Furthermore, if our tenants/operators/managers experience any significant financial, legal, accounting or regulatory difficulties, such difficulties could have a material adverse effect on us.. 28. Table of Contents. Senior Lifestyle Corporation and its affiliates (\"SLC\") manage a significant portion of our senior housing facilities pursuant to management agreements. Because SLC manages our properties in exchange for a management fee from us, we are not exposed to its credit risk.  However, failure of SLC to manage our properties efficiently and effectively could have a significant adverse impact on us. We monitor and assess numerous factors, including legal, contractual, regulatory, business and other relevant considerations, in determining whether to pursue any rights or remedies under our management agreements with SLC, including termination. If we elected to terminate the management agreements for any properties, we would attempt to reposition the properties, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to locate a suitable replacement manager or that the replacement manager would manage the properties effectively.. We are directly exposed to operational risks at certain of our healthcare properties, which could adversely affect our revenue and operations.. We operate a substantial number of healthcare properties pursuant to management agreements, whereby we are directly exposed to various operational risks with respect to these healthcare properties that may increase our costs or adversely affect our ability to generate revenues.  These risks include fluctuations in occupancy, government reimbursement, if applicable, private pay rates, economic conditions, competition, federal, state, local and industry-regulated licensure, certification, fraud and abuse and privacy and security laws, regulations and standards and related audits, investigations and litigation, the availability and increases in cost of general and professional liability insurance coverage, and the availability and increases in the cost of labor (as a result of unionization or otherwise).  Any one or a combination of these factors may adversely affect our revenue and operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.  Refer to \"Operating and Regulatory Structure - U.S. Healthcare Regulation\" included in Item 1 of this Annual Report for further discussion.. Decreases in our tenants' and operators' revenues or increases in our tenants and operators' expenses could negatively affect our financial results.. Our tenants' and operators' revenues are primarily driven by occupancy, private pay rates, and Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement, if applicable.  Expenses for these facilities are primarily driven by the costs of labor, food, utilities, taxes, insurance and rent or debt service.  Revenues from government reimbursement may continue to be subject to reimbursement cuts, disruptions in payment, audit and recovery actions, and state budget shortfalls.  Operating costs, including labor costs, continue to increase for our tenants and operators.  To the extent that any decrease in revenues and/or any increase in operating expenses result in a property not generating sufficient cash, our tenants and operators may not be able to make payments to us.  For our properties operated pursuant to management agreements, we may be directly exposed to operating shortfalls.  Failure of our tenants, operators or managers to perform could result in defaults under our borrowings. As a result, we may need to negotiate new leases or management agreements with our tenants, operators or managers or replace such tenants, operators or managers, which may subject us to significant liabilities and expense.  Under these circumstances, we have recorded and may need to further record impairment for such assets. Furthermore, if we determine to dispose of an underperforming property, such sale may result in a loss.  Any such impairment or loss on sale would negatively affect our financial results.. If we must replace any of our tenants, operators or managers, we might be unable to reposition the properties on as favorable terms, or at all, and we could be subject to delays, limitations and expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on us.. Following expiration of a lease term or if we exercise our right to replace a tenant, operator or manager in default, we will attempt to reposition properties.  However, rental payments on the related properties could decline or cease altogether while we reposition the properties with a suitable replacement tenant, operator or manager.  We also may not be successful in identifying suitable replacements or enter into new leases or management agreements on a timely basis or on terms as favorable to us as our current leases and management agreements, if at all, and we may be required to fund certain expenses and obligations (e.g., real estate taxes, debt costs and maintenance expenses) to preserve the value of, and avoid the imposition of liens on, our properties while they are being repositioned.  In addition, we may incur certain obligations and liabilities, including obligations to indemnify the replacement tenant, operator or manager.  Once a suitable replacement tenant/operator/manager has taken over operation of the properties, it may still take an extended period of time before the properties are fully repositioned and value restored, if at all.  Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.. 29. Table of Contents. Increased competition may affect our tenants' and operators' ability to meet their obligations to us.. The healthcare industry is highly competitive, and our tenants, operators and managers may encounter increased competition for residents and patients, including with respect to the scope and quality of care and services provided, reputation and financial condition, physical appearance of the properties, price and location.  Our tenants, operators and managers compete for labor, making their results sensitive to changes in the labor market and/or wages and benefits offered to their employees.  If our tenants, operators and managers are unable to successfully compete with other tenants, operators and managers by maintaining profitable occupancy and rate levels or controlling labor costs, their ability to meet their respective obligations to us may be materially adversely affected, potentially decreasing our revenues or impairing our assets.. Failure to comply with certain healthcare laws and regulations could adversely affect the operations of our tenants/operators/managers, which could jeopardize our tenants/operators/managers' abilities to meet their obligations to us.. Our tenants, operators and managers generally are subject to varying levels of federal, state, local, and industry-regulated laws, regulations and standards.  Our tenants/operators/managers' failure to comply with any of these laws, regulations or standards could result in denial of reimbursement, imposition of fines, penalties or damages, suspension, decertification or exclusion from federal and state healthcare programs, loss of license, loss of accreditation or certification, or closure of the facility.  Such actions may have an effect on our tenants/operators/managers' ability to meet all of their obligations to us, including obligations to make lease payments, and, therefore, adversely impact us.  Refer to \"Operating and Regulatory Structure - U.S. Healthcare Regulation\" included in Item 1 of this Annual Report for further discussion.. Changes in the reimbursement rates or methods of payment from third party payors, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs, could have a material adverse effect on certain of our tenants and operators and on us.. Certain of our tenants and operators rely on reimbursement from third party payors, including payments received through the Medicare and Medicaid programs, for substantially all of their revenues.  Federal and state legislators and healthcare financing authorities have adopted or proposed various cost-containment measures that would limit payments to healthcare providers and have considered Medicaid rate freezes or cuts. Additionally, some states are considering changes that would affect patient eligibility for Medicaid.  See \"Operating and Regulatory Structure - U.S. Healthcare Regulation\" included in Item 1 of this Annual Report.  Private third party payors also have continued their efforts to control healthcare costs.  We cannot assure you that our tenants and operators who currently depend on governmental or private payor reimbursement will be adequately reimbursed for the services they provide.  Significant limits by governmental and private third party payors on the scope of services reimbursed or on reimbursement rates and fees, whether from legislation, administrative actions or private payor efforts, could have a material adverse effect on the liquidity, financial condition and results of operations of certain of our tenants and operators, which could affect adversely their ability to comply with the terms of our leases and have a material adverse effect on us.. Efforts by Congress and the current presidential administration to repeal and replace the ACA in total or in part and reform Medicare and Medicaid could negatively impact the operations and financial condition of our tenants and operators, which in turn may adversely impact us.. The ACA remains subject to continuing and increasing legislative scrutiny, including current efforts by Congress and the current presidential administration to repeal and replace the ACA in total or in part.  If the ACA is repealed or substantially modified, or if implementation of certain aspects of the ACA are suspended, such action could negatively impact the operations and financial condition of our tenants and operators, which in turn may adversely impact us.  Additionally, Congress is contemplating substantial reforms to the Medicare and Medicaid programs.  Refer to \"Operating and Regulatory Structure - U.S. Healthcare Regulation\" included in Item 1 of this Annual Report for further discussion.  More generally, and because of the dynamic nature of the legislative and regulatory environment for healthcare products and services, and in light of the current legislative environment, existing federal deficit and budgetary concerns, we cannot predict the impact that broad-based, far-reaching legislative or regulatory changes could have on the U.S. economy, our business or that of our tenants and operators.. 30. Table of Contents. The hospitals on or near whose campuses many of our medical office buildings (\"MOBs\") are located and their affiliated health systems could fail to remain competitive or financially viable, which could adversely impact their ability to attract physicians and physician groups to our MOBs.. Our MOB operations depend on the competitiveness and financial viability of the hospitals on or near whose campuses our MOBs are located and their ability to attract physicians and other healthcare-related clients to our MOBs.  The viability of these hospitals, in turn, depends on factors such as the quality and mix of healthcare services provided, competition for patients, physicians and physician groups, demographic trends in the surrounding community, market position and growth potential.  Because we rely on proximity to and affiliations with hospitals to create leasing demand in our MOBs, a hospital's inability to remain competitive or financially viable, or to attract physicians and physician groups, could materially adversely affect our MOB operations and have a material adverse effect on us.. Risks Related to Our Industrial Business. Our ownership of industrial properties is subject to various risks, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Our ownership of industrial properties subjects us to various risks that could adversely affect our business and results of operations, including, among others, the following:. • an economic downturn in the industrial real estate sector;. • environmentally hazardous conditions, including the presence of or proximity to underground storage tanks for the storage of petroleum products and other hazardous toxic substances, or the failure to properly remediate these substances, and the resulting potential for release of such products and substances, which may adversely affect our ability to sell, rent or pledge such properties as collateral for future borrowings;. • restrictions imposed by environmental laws on the manner in which property may be used or businesses may be operated; and. • the risk of liabilities, including under environmental laws and regulations, arising from leasing properties to customers that engage in industrial, manufacturing, and commercial activities that involve hazardous or toxic substances.. Any of the foregoing risks could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. Risks Related to Our Hospitality Business. Approximately 27% of our real estate investments are concentrated in hotels, which increases our exposure to risks affecting the hospitality industry.. Hotels represent approximately 27% of our real estate portfolio.  The hospitality industry is subject to changes in the travel patterns of business and leisure travelers, both of which are affected by the strength of the economy, as well as other factors.  The performance of the hospitality industry has traditionally been closely linked with the performance of the general economy and, specifically, growth in gross domestic product.  Changes in travel patterns of both business and leisure travelers, particularly during periods of economic contraction or low levels of economic growth, may create difficulties for the industry over the long-term and adversely affect our results.  The majority of our hotels are classified as upscale extended stay and upscale select service that generally target business travelers.  In periods of economic difficulties, business and leisure travelers may seek to reduce travel costs by limiting travel or seeking to reduce costs on their trips.  Our results of operations and any forecast we make may be affected by, and can change based on, a variety of circumstances that affect the hospitality industry, including:. • changes in the international, national, regional and local economic climate;. • changes in business and leisure travel patterns;. • increases in energy prices or airline fares or terrorist incidents, which impact the propensity of people to travel and revenues from our hospitality facilities because operating costs cannot be adjusted as quickly;. • supply growth in markets where we own hotels, which may adversely affect demand at our properties;. • the attractiveness of our hotels to consumers relative to competing hotels;. 31. Table of Contents. • the performance of the managers of our hotels;. • outbreaks of disease and the impact on travel of natural disasters and weather;. • physical damage to our hotels as a result of earthquakes, hurricanes or other natural disasters or the income lost as a result of the damage;. • changes in room rates and increases in operating costs due to inflation, labor costs and other factors; and. • unionization of the labor force at our hotels.. A reduction in our revenue or earnings as a result of the above risks may reduce our working capital, impact our long-term business strategy and impact the value of our assets and our ability to meet certain covenants in our existing debt agreements.. We do not control our hotel operations and we are dependent on the managers of our hotels.. To maintain our status as a REIT, we are not permitted to operate any of our hotels.  As a result, we have entered into management agreements with third-party managers to operate our hotel properties.  For this reason, we are unable to directly implement strategic business decisions with respect to the daily operation and marketing of our hotels, such as decisions with respect to the setting of room rates, negotiation of corporate client contracts, food and beverage pricing and certain similar matters.  Although we consult with our hotel operators with respect to strategic business plans, the hotel operators are under no obligation to implement any of our recommendations with respect to these matters.  While we monitor the hotel managers' performance, we have limited recourse under our management agreements if we believe that the hotel managers are not performing adequately.  The cash flow from our hotels may be affected adversely if our managers fail to provide quality services and amenities or if they or their affiliates fail to maintain the hotels in an acceptable condition.. From time to time, we may have differences with the managers of our hotels over their performance and compliance with the terms of our management agreements.  If we are unable to reach satisfactory results through discussions and negotiations, we may choose to litigate the dispute or submit the matter to third-party dispute resolution.  Failure by our hotel managers to fully perform the duties agreed to in our management agreements or the failure of our managers to adequately manage the risks associated with hotel operations, including cyber-security risks, could affect adversely our results of operations.. In addition, our hotel managers or their affiliates manage, and in some cases own, have invested in, or provided credit support or operating guarantees to hotels that compete with our hotels, all of which may result in conflicts of interest.  As a result, our hotel managers have in the past made, and may in the future make, decisions regarding competing hospitality facilities that are not or would not be in our best interest.. Island Hospitality Group, Inc. (\"Island\") manages the majority of our hotels pursuant to management agreements.  Although we have various rights as the property owner under our management agreements, we rely on Island's personnel, expertise, technical resources and information systems, proprietary information, good faith and judgment to manage our hotel operations efficiently and effectively.  Any adverse developments in Island's business and affairs or financial condition could impair its ability to manage our properties efficiently and effectively and could have a materially adverse effect on us.. We are subject to risks associated with the employment of hotel personnel, particularly with hotels that employ unionized labor.. Our third-party managers are responsible for hiring and maintaining the labor force at each of our hotels.  Although we do not directly employ or manage employees at our hotels, we still are subject to many of the costs and risks generally associated with the hotel labor force, particularly at those hotels with unionized labor.  From time to time, hotel operations may be disrupted as a result of strikes, lockouts, public demonstrations or other negative actions and publicity.  We also may incur increased legal costs and indirect labor costs as a result of contract disputes involving our third-party managers and their labor force or other events.  The resolution of labor disputes or re-negotiated labor contracts could lead to increased labor costs, a significant component of our hotel operating costs, either by increases in wages or benefits or by changes in work rules that raise hotel operating costs.  As we are not the employer nor bound by any collective bargaining agreement, we do not negotiate with any labor organization, and it is the responsibility of each property's manager to enter into such labor contracts.  Our ability, if any, to have any material impact on the outcome of these negotiations is restricted by and dependent on the individual management agreement covering a specific property and we may have little ability to control the outcome of these negotiations.. 32. Table of Contents. In addition, changes in labor laws may negatively impact us.  For example, increases in minimum wage laws and the DOL's proposed regulations expanding the scope of non-exempt employees under the Fair Labor Standards Act to increase the entitlement to overtime pay could significantly increase the cost of labor in the workforce, which would increase the operating costs of our hotel properties and may have a material adverse effect on us.. We are subject to risks associated with our ongoing need for renovations and capital improvements as well as financing these expenditures.. In order to remain competitive, our hotels have an ongoing need for renovations and other capital improvements, including replacements, from time to time, of furniture, fixtures and equipment.  These capital improvements may give rise to the following risks:. • construction cost overruns and delays;. • a possible shortage of liquidity to fund capital improvements and the related possibility that financing for these capital improvements may not be available to us on affordable terms;. • the renovation investment failing to produce the returns on investment that we expect;. • disruptions in the operations of the hotel as well as in demand for the hotel while capital improvements are underway; and. • disputes with franchisors or hotel managers regarding compliance with relevant management or franchise agreements.. We may have insufficient liquidity to fund capital expenditures and, consequently, we may need to rely upon the availability of debt or equity capital to fund our investments and capital improvements.  These sources of funds may not be available on reasonable terms and conditions or at all.. Risks of operating hotels under franchise licenses, which may be terminated or not renewed, may impact our ability to make distributions to stockholders.. The continuation of our franchise licenses is subject to specified operating standards and other terms and conditions.  All of the franchisors of our hotels periodically inspect our hotels to confirm adherence to their operating standards.  The failure to maintain such standards or to adhere to such other terms and conditions could result in the loss or cancellation of the applicable franchise license.  It is possible that a franchisor could condition the continuation of a franchise license on the completion of capital improvements that we determine are too expensive or otherwise not economically feasible in light of general economic conditions, the operating results or prospects of the affected hotel.  In that event, we may elect to allow the franchise license to lapse or be terminated.. There can be no assurance that a franchisor will renew a franchise license at each option period.  If a franchisor terminates a franchise license, we may be unable to obtain a suitable replacement franchise, or to successfully operate the hotel independent of a franchise license.  The loss of a franchise license could have a material adverse effect upon the operations or the underlying value of the related hotel because of the loss of associated name recognition, marketing support and centralized reservation systems provided by the franchisor.  Our loss of a franchise license for one or more of the hotels could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and our amounts available for distribution to shareholders.. Risks Related to Our Other Equity and Debt Business. Our commercial real estate equity, debt and mortgage loans underlying our commercial real estate securities investments are subject to the risks typically associated with commercial real estate (\"CRE\").. Our CRE equity, debt and securities investments are subject to the risks typically associated with real estate, including:. • local, state, national or international economic conditions;. • real estate conditions, such as an oversupply of or a reduction in demand for real estate space in an area;. • lack of liquidity inherent in the nature of the asset;. • tenant/operator mix and the success of the tenant/operator business;. 33. Table of Contents. • the ability and willingness of tenants/operators/managers to maintain the financial strength and liquidity to satisfy their obligations to us and to third parties;. • reliance on tenants/operators/managers to operate their business in a sufficient manner and in compliance with their contractual arrangements with us;. • ability and cost to replace a tenant/operator/manager upon default;. • property management decisions;. • property operating costs, including insurance premiums, real estate taxes and maintenance costs;. • the perceptions of the quality, convenience, attractiveness and safety of the properties;. • branding, marketing and operational strategies;. • competition from comparable properties;. • the occupancy rate of, and the rental rates charged at, the properties;. • the ability to collect on a timely basis all rent;. • the effects of any bankruptcies or insolvencies;. • the expense of leasing, renovation or construction, including escalations in such expenses;. • changes in interest rates and in the availability, cost and terms of mortgage financing;. • unknown liens being placed on the properties;. • bad acts of third parties;. • the ability to refinance mortgage notes payable related to the real estate on favorable terms, if at all;. • changes in governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies;. • tax implications;. • changes in laws, including laws that increase operating expenses or limit rents that may be charged;. • the impact of present or future environmental legislation and compliance with environmental laws, including costs of remediation and liabilities associated with environmental conditions affecting properties;. • cost of compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990;. • adverse changes in governmental rules and fiscal policies;. • social unrest and civil disturbances;. • acts of nature, including earthquakes, hurricanes and other natural disasters;. • terrorism;. • the potential for uninsured or underinsured property losses;. • adverse changes in state and local laws, including zoning laws; and. • other factors which are beyond our control.. The value of each property is affected significantly by its ability to generate cash flow and net income, which in turn depends on the amount of rental or other income that can be generated net of expenses required to be incurred with respect to the property.  Many expenses associated with properties (such as operating expenses and capital expenses) cannot be reduced when there is a reduction in income from the properties.  These factors may have a material adverse effect on the value and the return that we can realize from our assets, as well as ability of our borrowers to pay their loans and the ability of the borrowers on the underlying loans securing our securities to pay their loans.. Our existing mezzanine loan assets and those that we may originate or acquire in the future are subject to greater risks of loss than senior loans secured by income-producing properties.. We currently own interests in mezzanine loans and may, subject to maintaining our qualification as a REIT, originate or acquire additional mezzanine loans (or interests in mezzanine loans).  Mezzanine loans take the form of subordinated loans secured by junior participations in mortgages or second mortgages on the underlying property, or loans secured by. 34. Table of Contents. a pledge of the ownership interests of either the entity owning the property or a pledge of the ownership interests of the entity that owns the interest in the entity owning the property.  These types of assets involve a higher degree of risk than long-term senior mortgage lending secured by income-producing real property, because the loan may be foreclosed on by the senior lender.  In addition, mezzanine loans may have higher loan-to-value ratios than conventional mortgage loans, resulting in less equity in the property and increasing the risk of loss of principal.  If a borrower defaults on our mezzanine loan or debt senior to our loan, or in the event of a borrower bankruptcy, our mezzanine loan will be satisfied only after the senior debt is paid in full.  Where debt senior to our loan exists, the presence of intercreditor arrangements between the holder of the senior mortgage loan and us, as the mezzanine lender, may limit our ability to amend our loan documents, assign our loans, accept prepayments, exercise our remedies and control decisions made in bankruptcy proceedings relating to borrowers.  As a result, we may not recover some or all of our investment, which could result in losses.  In addition, even if we are able to foreclose on the underlying collateral following a default on a mezzanine loan, we would replace the defaulting borrower and, to the extent income generated on the underlying property is insufficient to meet outstanding debt obligations on the property, we may need to commit substantial additional capital to stabilize the property and prevent additional defaults to lenders with remaining liens on the property.  Significant losses related to our current or future mezzanine loans could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. Regulatory Risks. Extensive regulation in the United States and abroad affects our activities, increases the cost of doing business and creates the potential for significant liabilities and that could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Our business is subject to extensive regulation, including periodic examinations by governmental agencies and self-regulatory organizations in the jurisdictions in which we operate around the world.  Many of these regulators, including U.S. and foreign government agencies and self-regulatory organizations and state securities commissions in the United States, are empowered to grant, and in specific circumstances to cancel, permissions to carry on particular activities, and to conduct investigations and administrative proceedings that can result in fines, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including censure, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or the suspension or expulsion of applicable licenses and memberships.  For example, in recent years the SEC and several states have initiated investigations alleging that certain private equity firms and hedge funds, or agents acting on their behalf, have paid money to current or former government officials or their associates in exchange for improperly soliciting contracts with the state pension funds (i.e., \" pay to play\" practices).  Such \"pay to play\" practices are subject to extensive federal and state regulation, and any failure on our part to comply with rules surrounding \"pay to play\" practices could expose us to significant penalties and reputational damage.  Even if an investigation or proceeding does not result in a sanction or the sanction imposed against us or our personnel by a regulator were small in monetary amount, the costs incurred in responding to such matters could be material and the adverse publicity relating to the investigation, proceeding or imposition of these sanctions could harm our reputation and cause us to lose existing investors or fail to gain new investors or discourage others from doing business with us.. In addition, we regularly rely on exemptions from various requirements of the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, the 1940 Act, the Commodity Exchange Act and ERISA in conducting our investment activities in the United States.  Similarly, in conducting our investment activities outside the United States, we rely on available exemptions from the regulatory regimes of various foreign jurisdictions.  These exemptions from regulation within the United States and abroad are sometimes highly complex and may, in certain circumstances, depend on compliance by third parties whom we do not control.  If for any reason these exemptions were to become unavailable to us, we could become subject to regulatory action or third party claims and our business could be materially and adversely affected.  Moreover, the requirements imposed by our regulators are designed primarily to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect investors in our funds and are not designed to protect our stockholders.  Consequently, these regulations often serve to limit our activities and impose burdensome compliance requirements.. It is difficult to determine the full extent of the impact on us of any new laws, regulations or initiatives that may be proposed or whether any of the proposals will become law.  Any changes in the regulatory framework applicable to our business, including the changes as a result of, among others, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, may impose additional costs on us, require the attention of our senior management or result in limitations on the manner in which we conduct our business.  Furthermore, we may become subject to additional regulatory and compliance burdens as we expand our product offerings and investment platform, including raising additional funds.  Moreover, as calls for additional regulation have increased as a result of heightened regulatory focus in the financial industry, there may be a related increase in regulatory investigations of the trading and other investment activities of. 35. Table of Contents. alternative asset management funds, including our managed companies.  Compliance with any new laws or regulations could make compliance more difficult and expensive, affect the manner in which we conduct our business and adversely affect our profitability.. Failure to maintain our exemption from registration under the 1940 Act could require us to register as an investment company or substantially change the way we conduct our business, either of which may have an adverse effect on us and the market price for shares of our Class A common stock.. We intend to conduct our operations so that we are not required to register as an investment company under the 1940 Act.  Maintenance of the applicable exemptions requires that we subject our business to certain limitations on investment and activities.. Continuing qualification for exemption from registration under the 1940 Act will limit our ability to make certain investments.  For example, for our subsidiaries that rely on Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the 1940 Act, the requirements to maintain the exemption will limit their ability to invest directly in mortgage-backed securities that represent less than the entire ownership in a pool of mortgage loans, debt and equity tranches of securitizations and certain asset-backed securities and real estate companies or assets not related to real estate.. We classify our investments for purposes of testing for these exemptions based in large measure on no-action letters issued by the Staff of the SEC and other SEC interpretive guidance.  These positions were based upon facts that may be different from ours, and many of these no-action positions were issued more than twenty years ago.  To the extent that the Staff of the Division of Investment Management of the SEC provides more specific guidance regarding any of the matters bearing upon any exemption on which we may rely, we may be required to adjust our holdings and strategies accordingly.  Additional guidance from the Staff of the Division of Investment Management of the SEC could provide us with additional flexibility, or it could further inhibit our ability to pursue strategies we have chosen.  For example, on August 31, 2011, the SEC issued a concept release (Release No. 29778, File No. S7-34-11, Companies Engaged in the Business of Acquiring Mortgages and Mortgage Related Instruments), pursuant to which it is reviewing whether certain companies that invest in mortgage-backed securities should continue to be allowed to rely on the exclusion from registration under Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the 1940 Act.  If the SEC takes action with respect to this exclusion, these changes could result in our CDOs and other subsidiaries being no longer able to rely on the exclusion from registration under Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the 1940 Act.  In such a case, we would either need to conform its activities to one or more other exemptions from the 1940 Act or lose our status as exempt from registration under the 1940 Act, either of which could result in an adverse effect on us.. If we fail to maintain our exemption from registration as an investment company under the 1940 Act, either because of changes in SEC guidance or otherwise, we could be required to, among other things: (i) substantially change the manner in which we conduct our operations to avoid being required to register as an investment company under the 1940Act; or (ii) register as an investment company.  Either of (i) or (ii) could have an adverse effect on us and the market price for shares of our Class A common stock.  If we are required to register as an investment company under the 1940Act, we would become subject to substantial regulation with respect to our capital structure (including our ability to use leverage), management, operations, transactions with affiliated persons (as defined in the 1940 Act), portfolio composition, including restrictions with respect to diversification and industry concentration and other matters.. Regulation of a subsidiary of our company under the Investment Advisers Act subjects us to the anti-fraud provisions of the Investment Advisers Act and to fiduciary duties derived from these provisions.. We have subsidiaries that are registered with the SEC as investment advisers under the Investment Advisers Act.  As a result, we are subject to the anti-fraud provisions of the Investment Advisers Act and to fiduciary duties derived from these provisions that apply to our relationships with our managed companies.  These provisions and duties impose restrictions and obligations on us with respect to our dealings with our managed companies' investors and our investments, including, for example, restrictions on agency, cross and principal transactions.  We or our registered investment adviser subsidiaries will be subject to periodic SEC examinations and other requirements under the Investment Advisers Act and related regulations primarily intended to benefit advisory clients.  These additional requirements relate to, among other things, maintaining an effective and comprehensive compliance program, recordkeeping and reporting requirements and disclosure requirements.  The Investment Advisers Act generally grants the SEC broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict an investment adviser from conducting advisory activities in the event it fails to comply with federal securities laws.  Additional sanctions that may be imposed for failure to comply with applicable requirements under the Investment Advisers Act include the prohibition of individuals from associating with an investment adviser, the revocation of registrations and other censures and fines.. 36. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Taxation. Our qualification as a REIT involves complying with highly technical and complex provisions of the Code.. We intend to elect to be taxed as a REIT under the U.S. federal income tax laws commencing with our taxable year ended December 31, 2017.  Our qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Code for which only limited judicial and administrative authorities exist. Even a technical or inadvertent violation could jeopardize our REIT qualification. New legislation, court decisions or administrative guidance, in each case possibly with retroactive effect, may make it more difficult or impossible for us to qualify as a REIT.. Our qualification as a REIT depends on our satisfaction of certain gross asset, gross income, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis:. • With respect to the gross asset test, our compliance depends upon our analysis of the characterization and valuation of our assets, some of which are not susceptible to a precise determination, and for which we have not and will not obtain independent appraisals. Moreover, we invest in certain assets with respect to which the rules applicable to REITs are particularly difficult to interpret or to apply, including, but not limited to, the rules applicable to financing arrangements that are structured as sale and repurchase agreements; mezzanine loans; and investments in real estate mortgage loans that are acquired at a discount, subject to work-outs or modifications, or reasonably expected to be in default at the time of acquisition. If the IRS challenged our treatment of these assets as real estate assets for purposes of the REIT asset tests, and if such a challenge were sustained, we could fail to meet the asset tests applicable to REITs and thus fail to qualify as a REIT.. • The fact that we own direct or indirect interests in a number of entities that have elected (or intend to elect with the filing of their tax return) to be taxed as REITs under the U.S. federal income tax laws, each a Subsidiary REIT, further complicates the application of the REIT requirements for us. Each Subsidiary REIT is subject to the various REIT qualification requirements that are applicable to us. If a Subsidiary REIT were to fail to qualify as a REIT, then (i) that Subsidiary REIT would become subject to regular U.S. federal corporate income tax, (ii) our interest in such Subsidiary REIT would cease to be a qualifying asset for purposes of the REIT asset tests, and (iii) it is possible that we would fail certain of the REIT asset tests, in which event we also would fail to qualify as a REIT unless we could avail ourselves of certain relief provisions.. • Our ability to satisfy the distribution and other requirements to qualify as a REIT depends in part on the actions of third parties over which we have no control or only limited influence, including in cases where we own limited partner or non-managing member interests in partnerships and limited liability companies that are joint ventures or funds.. If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we would be subject to U.S. federal income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax (for our taxable year ended December 31, 2017), on our taxable income at regular corporate rates, and dividends paid to our stockholders would not be deductible by us in computing our taxable income. Any resulting corporate tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders, which in turn could have an adverse impact on the value of our Class A Common Stock. In addition, we would no longer be required to make distributions to stockholders. Unless we were entitled to relief under certain Code provisions, we also would be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which we failed to qualify as a REIT.. We may incur adverse tax consequences if Colony or NRF were to have failed to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes prior to the Mergers.. In connection with the closing of the Mergers, we received an opinion of counsel to each of Colony and NRF to the effect that it qualified as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes under the Code through the time of the Mergers. Neither Colony nor NRF, however, requested a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (the \"IRS\") that it qualified as a REIT. If, notwithstanding these opinions, Colony's or NRF's REIT status for periods prior to the Mergers were successfully challenged, we would face serious adverse tax consequences that would substantially reduce our Core FFO and cash available for distribution, or CAD, including cash available to pay dividends to our stockholders, because:. • Colony or NRF, as applicable, would be subject to U.S. federal, state and local income tax on its net income at regular corporate rates for the years it did not qualify as a REIT (and, for such years, would not be allowed. 37. Table of Contents. a deduction for dividends paid to stockholders in computing its taxable income) and we would succeed to the liability for such taxes;. • if we were considered to be a \"successor\" of such entity, we would not be eligible to elect REIT status until the fifth taxable year following the year during which such entity was disqualified, unless it were entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions;. • even if we were eligible to elect REIT status, we would be subject to tax (at the highest corporate rate in effect at the date of the sale) on the built-in gain on each asset of Colony or NRF, as applicable, existing at the time of the Mergers if we were to dispose of such asset for up to five years following the Mergers; and. • we would succeed to any earnings and profits accumulated by Colony or NRF, as applicable, for tax periods that such entity did not qualify as a REIT and we would have to pay a special dividend and/or employ applicable deficiency dividend procedures (including interest payments to the IRS) to eliminate such earnings and profits to maintain our REIT qualification.. As a result of these factors, Colony's or NRF's failure to qualify as a REIT prior to the Mergers could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital and could materially adversely affect the value of our common stock . In addition, even if they qualified as REITs for the duration of their existence, if there is an adjustment to Colony's or NRF's taxable income or dividends-paid deductions for periods prior to the Mergers, we could be required to elect to use the deficiency dividend procedure to maintain Colony's or NRF's, as applicable, REIT status for periods prior to the Mergers. That deficiency dividend procedure could require us to make significant distributions to our stockholders and to pay significant interest to the IRS.. Dividends payable by REITs do not qualify for the preferential tax rates available for some dividends.. The maximum rate applicable to \"qualified dividend income\" paid by non-REIT \"C\" corporations to U.S. stockholders that are individuals, trusts and estates generally is 20%. Dividends payable by REITs to those U.S. stockholders, however, generally are not eligible for the current reduced rate, except to the extent that certain holding requirements have been met and a REIT's dividends are attributable to dividends received by a REIT from taxable corporations (such as a taxable REIT subsidiary, or TRS), to income that was subject to tax at the REIT/corporate level, or to dividends properly designated by the REIT as \"capital gains dividends.\" Effective for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, and before January 1, 2026, those U.S. stockholders may deduct 20% of their dividends from REITs (excluding qualified dividend income and capital gains dividends). For those U.S. stockholders in the top marginal tax bracket of 37%, the deduction for REIT dividends yields an effective income tax rate of 29.6% on REIT dividends, which is higher than the 20% tax rate on qualified dividend income paid by non-REIT \"C\" corporations but still lower than the effective rate that applied prior to 2018, which is the first year that this special deduction for REIT dividends is available. Although the reduced rates applicable to dividend income from non-REIT \"C\" corporations do not adversely affect the taxation of REITs or dividends payable by REITs, it could cause investors who are non-corporate taxpayers to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the shares of non-REIT \"C\" corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of our Common Stock.. REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan.. We generally must distribute annually at least 90% of our \"REIT taxable income\" (subject to certain adjustments and excluding any net capital gain), in order to qualify as a REIT, and any REIT taxable income that we do not distribute will be subject to U.S. corporate income tax at regular rates.  In addition, from time to time, we may generate taxable income greater than our income for financial reporting purposes prepared in accordance with GAAP, or differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash may occur. For example,. • we may be required to accrue income from mortgage loans, mortgage-backed securities, or MBS, and other types of debt securities or interests in debt securities before we receive any payments of interest or principal on such assets;. • we may acquire distressed debt investments that are subsequently modified by agreement with the borrower, which could cause us to have to recognize gain in certain circumstances;. • we may recognize substantial amounts of \"cancellation of debt\" income for U.S. federal income tax purposes (but not for GAAP purposes) due to discount repurchases of our liabilities, which could cause our REIT taxable income to exceed our GAAP income;. • we or our TRSs may recognize taxable \"phantom income\" as a result of modifications, pursuant to agreements with borrowers, of debt instruments that we acquire if the amendments to the outstanding debt are \"significant modifications\" under the applicable Treasury regulations. In addition, our TRSs may be. 38. Table of Contents. treated as a \"dealer\" for U.S. federal income tax purposes, in which case the TRS would be required to mark-to-market its assets at the end of each taxable year and recognize taxable gain or loss on those assets even though there has been no actual sale of those assets;. • we may deduct our capital losses only to the extent of our capital gains and not against our ordinary income, in computing our REIT taxable income for a given taxable year;. • certain of our assets and liabilities are marked-to-market for GAAP purposes but not for tax purposes, which could result in losses for GAAP purposes that are not recognized in computing our REIT taxable income; and under the \"Tax Cut and Jobs Act of 2017\" (the \"TCJA\"), we generally must accrue income for U.S. federal income tax purposes no later than when such income is taken into account as revenue in our financial statements, which could create additional differences between REIT taxable income and the receipt of cash attributable to such income. Furthermore, the TCJA places a per-employee limit of $1 million on the amount of compensation that a publicly held corporation may deduct in any one year with respect to its chief executive officer and certain other highly compensated executive officers. These changes may have the effect of increasing or accelerating our REIT taxable income.. As a result of both the requirement to distribute 90% of our REIT taxable income each year (and to pay tax on any REIT taxable income that we do not distribute) and the fact that our taxable income may well exceed our cash income due to the factors mentioned above as well as other factors, we may find it difficult to meet the REIT distribution requirements in certain circumstances while also having adequate cash resources to execute our business plan. In particular, where we experience differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash, the requirement to distribute a substantial portion of our taxable income could cause us to: (i) sell assets in adverse market conditions, (ii) borrow on unfavorable terms, (iii) distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions, capital expenditures or repayment of debt or (iv) make a taxable distribution of our shares of Common Stock as part of a distribution in which stockholders may elect to receive shares of Common Stock or (subject to a limit measured as a percentage of the total distribution) cash, in order to comply with REIT requirements. These alternatives could increase our costs, reduce our equity, and/or result in stockholders being taxed on distributions of shares of stock without receiving cash sufficient to pay the resulting taxes. Thus, compliance with the REIT distribution requirements may hinder our ability to grow, which could adversely affect the value of our Common Stock.. We might elect to distribute our common stock in a taxable distribution in order to satisfy the REIT distribution requirements, in which case stockholders may sell shares of our common stock to pay tax on such distributions, placing downward pressure on the market price of our common stock.. In order to reduce the amount of cash that we are required to distribute to stockholders, we might elect to make taxable distributions that are payable partly in cash and partly in shares of our common stock. If we made a taxable dividend payable in cash and shares of our common stock, taxable stockholders receiving such distributions will be taxed on the full amount of the distribution that otherwise would be a dividend for tax purposes, even though part is paid in stock. If we made a taxable dividend payable in cash and our common stock and a significant number of stockholders determine to sell shares of our common stock in order to pay taxes owed on dividends, it may put downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock.. Even if we continue to qualify as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash available for distribution to stockholders.. Even if we qualify for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain U.S. federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, tax on income from some activities conducted as a result of a foreclosure, and state or local income, property and transfer taxes, such as mortgage recording taxes. We also are subject to U.S. federal and state income tax (and any applicable non-U.S. taxes) on the net income earned by our TRSs. Due to the nature of the assets in which we invest, we expect our TRSs will have a material amount of assets and net taxable income. In addition, we have substantial operations and assets outside of the U.S. that are subject to tax in those countries - those taxes, unless incurred by a TRS, are not likely to generate an offsetting credit for taxes in the U.S.. In addition, if we have net income from \"prohibited transactions,\" that income will be subject to a 100% tax. In general, \"prohibited transactions\" are sales or other dispositions of property, other than foreclosure property, but including mortgage loans, held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. We might be subject to this tax if we were to dispose of or securitize loans in a manner that was treated as a sale of the loans for U.S. federal income tax purposes that is subject to the prohibited transactions tax. In order to avoid the prohibited transactions tax, we may choose not to engage in certain sales of loans at the REIT-level, and may limit the structures we utilize for our securitization transactions, even though such sales or structures might otherwise be beneficial to us. Finally, we could, in certain circumstances, be required to pay an excise or penalty tax (which could be. 39. Table of Contents. significant in amount) in order to utilize one or more relief provisions under the Code to maintain our qualification as a REIT. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to our stockholders.. Complying with REIT requirements may force us to forgo and/or liquidate otherwise attractive investment opportunities.. To qualify as a REIT, we must ensure that we meet the REIT gross income tests annually and that at the end of each calendar quarter, at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and qualified REIT real estate assets, including certain mortgage loans and certain kinds of MBS. The remainder of our investment in securities (other than qualified 75% asset test assets) generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. In addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our assets (other than qualified 75% asset test assets) can consist of the securities of any one issuer, and no more than 20% of the value of our total assets can be represented by stock or securities of one or more TRSs. Debt instruments issued by \"publicly offered REITs,\" to the extent not secured by real property or interests in real property, qualify for the 75% asset test but the value of such debt instruments cannot exceed 25% of the value of our total assets. Finally, in connection with the Mergers and the prior combination of Colony's business, we were treated as having acquired substantial amounts of goodwill that may not qualify for the 75% asset test assets.  The compliance with these limitations, particularly given the nature of some of our investments and the goodwill that we have that is not a qualifying real estate asset, may hinder our ability to make, and, in certain cases, maintain ownership of certain attractive investments that might not qualify for the 75% asset test. If we fail to comply with the REIT asset tests requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct the failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter or qualify for certain statutory relief provisions to avoid losing our REIT qualification and suffering adverse tax consequences. As a result, we may be required to liquidate from our portfolio, or contribute to a TRS, otherwise attractive investments in order to maintain our qualification as a REIT. These actions could have the effect of reducing our income, increasing our income tax liability, and reducing amounts available for distribution to our stockholders. In addition, we may be required to make distributions to stockholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution, and may be unable to pursue investments (or, in some cases, forego the sale of such investments) that would be otherwise advantageous to us in order to satisfy the source-of-income or asset-diversification requirements for qualifying as a REIT.. The \"taxable mortgage pool\" rules may increase the taxes that we or our stockholders may incur, and may limit the manner in which we effect future securitizations.. Securitizations by us or our subsidiaries could result in the creation of taxable mortgage pools for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a result, we could have \"excess inclusion income.\" In general, dividend income that a tax-exempt entity receives from us should not constitute unrelated business taxable income, or UBTI, as defined in Section 512 of the Code. If, however, we realize excess inclusion income and allocate it to stockholders, then this income would be fully taxable as UBTI to a tax-exempt entity under Section 512 of the Code. A foreign stockholder would generally be subject to U.S. federal income tax withholding on this excess inclusion income without reduction pursuant to any otherwise applicable income tax treaty. U.S. stockholders would not be able to offset such income with their net operating losses.. Although the law is not entirely clear, the IRS has taken the position that we are subject to tax at the highest corporate rate on the portion of our excess inclusion income equal to the percentage of our stock held in record name by \"disqualified organizations\" (generally tax-exempt investors, such as certain state pension plans and charitable remainder trusts, that are not subject to the tax on unrelated business taxable income). To the extent that our stock owned by \"disqualified organizations\" is held in street name by a broker-dealer or other nominee, the broker-dealer or nominee would be liable for a tax at the highest corporate rate on the portion of our excess inclusion income allocable to the stock held on behalf of the \"disqualified organizations.\" A regulated investment company or other pass-through entity owning our stock may also be subject to tax at the highest corporate tax rate on any excess inclusion income allocated to their record name owners that are \"disqualified organizations.\". Excess inclusion income could result if a REIT held a residual interest in a real estate mortgage investment conduit, or REMIC. In addition, excess inclusion income also may be generated if a REIT issues debt with two or more maturities and the terms of the payments of those debt instruments bear a relationship to the payments that the REIT received on mortgage loans or mortgage-backed securities securing those liabilities. If any portion of our dividends is attributable to excess inclusion income, then the tax liability of tax-exempt stockholders, non-U.S. stockholders, stockholders with net operating losses, regulated investment companies and other pass-through entities whose record name owners are disqualified organizations and brokers-dealers and other nominees who hold stock on behalf of disqualified organizations will very likely increase.. 40. Table of Contents. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively and may cause us to incur tax liabilities.. The REIT provisions of the Code limit our ability to hedge certain of our liabilities. Under these provisions, any income from a hedging transaction that we enter into to manage risk of interest rate changes with respect to borrowings made or to be made to acquire or carry real estate assets, or to manage the risk of certain currency fluctuations, and that is properly identified under applicable Treasury Regulations, does not constitute \"gross income\" for purposes of the 75% or 95% gross income tests. To the extent that we enter into other types of hedging transactions, the income from those transactions is likely to be treated as non-qualifying income for purposes of the REIT gross income tests. As a result of these rules, we intend to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques that do not qualify for the exclusion from the REIT gross income tests or implement those hedges through a TRS. This could increase the cost of our hedging activities because our TRS would be subject to tax on gains or expose us to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to bear. In addition, losses in our TRS will generally not provide any tax benefit, except for being carried forward against future taxable income in the TRS.. There is a risk of changes in the tax law applicable to REITs.. The IRS, the United States Treasury Department and Congress frequently review U.S. federal income tax legislation, regulations and other guidance. We cannot predict whether, when or to what extent new U.S. federal tax laws, regulations, interpretations or rulings will be adopted. Any legislative action may prospectively or retroactively modify our tax treatment and, therefore, may adversely affect our taxation or our stockholders.  In particular, the TCJA makes many significant changes to the U.S. federal income tax laws that will profoundly impact the taxation of individuals and corporations (both non-REIT \"C\" corporations as well as corporations that have elected to be taxed as REITs). A number of changes that affect non-corporate taxpayers will expire at the end of 2025 unless Congress acts to extend them. These changes will impact us and our stockholders in various ways, some of which are adverse or potentially adverse compared to prior law. To date, the IRS has issued only limited guidance with respect to certain of the new provisions, and there are numerous interpretive issues that will require guidance. It is highly likely that technical corrections legislation will be needed to clarify certain aspects of the new law and give proper effect to Congressional intent. There can be no assurance, however, that technical clarifications or changes needed to prevent unintended or unforeseen tax consequences will be enacted by Congress in the near future.. The ability of our board of directors to revoke our REIT election without stockholder approval may cause adverse consequences to our stockholders.. Our Charter provides that the board of directors may revoke or otherwise terminate our REIT election, without the approval of our stockholders, if the board determines that it is no longer in our best interest to continue to qualify as a REIT. If we cease to qualify as a REIT, we would become subject to U.S. federal income tax on our net taxable income and we generally would no longer be required to distribute any of our net taxable income to our stockholders, which may have adverse consequences on our total return to our stockholders.. Our ownership of assets and conduct of operations through our TRSs is limited and involves certain risks for us.. We use our TRSs to hold assets and earn income that would not be qualifying assets or income if held or earned directly by us.  Apart from the fact that income from those TRSs may be subject to U.S. federal, foreign, state and local income tax on their taxable income and only their after-tax net income is available for distribution to us, our use of the TRS for this purpose is subject to certain costs, risks and limitations:. • No more than 20% of the value of our gross assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more TRSs.. • The TRS rules limit the deductibility of interest paid or accrued by a TRS to its parent REIT to assure that the TRS is subject to an appropriate level of corporate taxation. The rules also impose a 100% excise tax on certain transactions between a TRS and its parent REIT that are not conducted on an arm's-length basis.. • Our leases of hotel and healthcare property leases with our TRSs must be respected as true leases for U.S. federal income tax purposes and must not be treated as service contracts, joint ventures or some other type of arrangement in order for us to qualify as a REIT.. • The hotel and healthcare property managers for the properties that we lease to our TRSs must qualify as \"eligible independent contractors\" under the rules applicable to REITs or we could fail to qualify as a REIT.. • We treat income that we earn from certain foreign TRSs, including issuers in CDO transactions, as qualifying dividend income for purposes of the REIT income tests, based on several private letter rulings that the IRS has issued to other taxpayers (which technically may be relied upon only by those taxpayers), but there can. 41. Table of Contents. be no assurance that the IRS might not successfully challenge our treatment of such income as qualifying income, in which event we might not satisfy the REIT 95% gross income test, and we either could be subject to a penalty tax with respect to some or all of that income we could fail to continue to qualify as a REIT;.. • We generally structure our foreign TRSs with the intent that their income and operations will not be subject to U.S. federal, state and local income tax. If the IRS successfully challenged that tax treatment, it would reduce the amount that those foreign TRSs would have available to pay to their creditors and to distribute to us.. We are mindful of all of these limitations and analyze and structure the income and operations of our TRSs to mitigate these costs and risks to us to the extent practicable, but we may not always be successful in all cases.. We could fail to continue to qualify as a REIT and/or pay additional taxes if the IRS recharacterizes certain of our international investments.. We have made, and intend to continue to make additional property investments in international jurisdictions. Our equity in such investments is funded through the use of instruments that we believe should be treated as equity for U.S. tax purposes. If the IRS disagreed with such characterization and was successful in recharacterizing the nature of our investments in international jurisdictions, we could fail to satisfy one or more of the REIT asset and income tests. Additionally, if the IRS recharacterized the nature of our investments and we were to take action to prevent such REIT test failures, the actions we would take could expose us to increased taxes both internationally and in the United States.. We could be subject to increased taxes if the tax authorities in various international jurisdictions were to modify tax rules and regulations on which we have relied in structuring our international investments.. We currently receive favorable tax treatment in various international jurisdictions through tax rules, regulations, tax authority rulings, and international tax treaties. Should changes occur to these rules, regulations, rulings or treaties, we may no longer receive such benefits, and consequently, the amount of taxes we pay with respect to our international investments may increase.. We will be subject to corporate income tax on the sale of assets acquired from or previously held by a non-REIT \"C\" corporation within five years of our acquisition of those assets or our becoming a REIT.. If a REIT previously was a non-REIT \"C\" corporation, or it acquires any asset from a non-REIT \"C\" corporation, or a corporation that generally is subject to full corporate-level tax, in a merger or other transaction in which it acquires a basis in the asset that is determined by reference either to the non-REIT \"C\" corporation's basis in the asset or to another asset, the REIT generally will pay tax at the highest regular corporate rate applicable if it recognizes gain on the sale or disposition of the asset during the five-year period after it becomes a REIT or it acquires the asset. Because NSAM previously was a non-REIT \"C\" corporation, this tax will generally apply to gain recognized with respect to assets that were held by NSAM as of the effective date of our REIT election (January 1, 2017) if such gain is recognized during the five-year period following such effective date or it may apply if we were to engage in an merger transaction with another non-REIT \"C\" corporation in the future. The amount of gain on which we would pay tax in the foregoing circumstances is the lesser of (i) the amount of gain that we recognize at the time of the sale or disposition; and (ii) the amount of gain that we would have recognized if we had sold the asset at the time we acquired it (or in the case of NSAM assets, on January 1, 2017).. We are restricted in our ability to transfer cash from the Operating Partnership to the Company within two years following the Mergers without incurring adverse tax consequences.. Under the \"disguised sale\" rules that apply when a partner transfers property to a partnership and the partnership transfers cash to the partner within two years of that transfer, we are restricted in our ability to transfer cash from the Operating Partnership to the Company within two years following the Mergers, unless that transfer can qualify for an exception provided for the applicable regulations or was not contemplated at the time of the Mergers, without incurring adverse tax consequences. We do not anticipate that these rules will limit our ability to pay regular dividends from the operating cash flow of the Operating Partnership, but they could restrict our ability to make repurchases of our common stock and/or our preferred stock pursuant to our previously announced stock repurchase program. We believe that we will have the capacity to make substantial repurchases, but we may not have the flexibility to repurchase as much stock as we would otherwise elect, depending upon future market conditions."
