[1] "Item 1A.   RISK FACTORS. In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business. Our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows may be materially adversely affected by these and other risks. Please note that additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business and operations.. We Face Many Challenges Executing Growth Strategies. Our business strategies aim to achieve sustainable, profitable growth by creating innovative products at competitive prices, focusing on product design, utilizing innovations to differentiate our brands from competitors, working to ensure that our products are sold through strong distribution partners capable of effectively presenting our brands to consumers, increasing the impact of consumer communications to drive demand for our brands and sell-through of our products, making sure our products are merchandised and displayed appropriately in retail environments, expanding our presence in key markets around the world, and continuing to build brand-enhancing direct-to-consumer businesses. We intend to pursue these strategies across our portfolio of brands, product categories and geographic markets. Our failure to successfully implement our business strategies, including those identified in connection with the Company's operating model assessment, referred to as Project CONNECT, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. To implement our business strategies and initiatives, including those that may result from Project CONNECT, we must continue to modify and fund various aspects of our business, to maintain and enhance our information systems and supply chain operations to improve efficiencies and to attract, retain and manage qualified personnel. These efforts, coupled with cost containment measures, place increasing strain on management, information technology, financial, product design, marketing, distribution, supply chain, and other resources, and we may have operating difficulties as a result. For example, in support of our business strategies, we are making significant investments in our business processes and information technology infrastructure that require significant management attention and corporate resources. These changes may make it increasingly difficult to pursue acquisitions or to adapt our information technology systems and business processes to integrate an acquired business. These integration challenges may also be present as we continue to fully integrate operations of prAna, which we acquired in May 2014. Our business strategies involve many risks and uncertainties that, if not managed effectively, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Our business strategies and related initiatives and increased expenditures could also cause our operating margin to decline if we are unable to offset our increased spending with increased sales or gross profit or comparable reductions in other operating costs. If our sales or gross profit decline or fail to grow as planned and we fail to sufficiently leverage our. 9. operating expenses, our profitability will decline. This could result in a decision to delay, reduce, modify, or terminate our business strategies and initiatives, which could limit our ability to invest in and grow our business and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Initiatives to Upgrade Our Business Processes and Information Technology Infrastructure Involve Many Risks Which Could Result in, Among Other Things, Business Interruptions and Higher Costs. We regularly implement business process improvement and information technology initiatives to optimize our operational and financial performance. Our current initiatives include an initiative to invest in a global retail platform, which encompasses our information technology systems infrastructure to support the growth and expansion of our direct-to-consumer businesses, as well as continued implementation of and upgrades to our integrated global enterprise resource planning (\"ERP\") software solutions and other complementary information technology systems, which support our supply chain, go-to-market strategies, and direct-to-consumer strategies and operations. Implementation of and upgrades to these solutions and systems are highly dependent on coordination of numerous employees, contractors and software and system providers. The interdependence of these solutions and systems is a significant risk to the successful completion of these initiatives, and the failure of any one contractor or system could have a material adverse effect on the implementation of our overall information technology infrastructure. We may experience difficulties as we transition to these new or upgraded systems and processes, including loss or corruption of data, delayed shipments, interruptions of direct-to-consumer operations, decreases in productivity as our personnel implement and become familiar with new systems, increased costs, and lost revenues. In addition, transitioning to these new or upgraded systems requires significant capital investments and personnel resources. Difficulties in implementing new or upgraded information systems or significant system failures, including system outages and loss of system availability, could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. These implementations have a pervasive effect on our business processes and information systems across a significant portion of our operations. As a result, we are undergoing significant changes in our operational processes and internal controls as our implementations progress, which in turn require significant change management, including training of and testing by our personnel. If we are unable to successfully manage these changes as we implement these systems, including harmonizing our systems, data, processes and reporting analytics, our ability to conduct, manage and control routine business functions could be negatively affected and significant disruptions to our business could occur. In addition, we could incur material unanticipated expenses, including additional costs of implementation or costs of conducting business. These risks could result in significant business disruptions or divert management's attention from key strategic initiatives and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. We Rely on Our Highly Customized Information Management Systems. Our business is increasingly reliant on information technology. Information systems are used across our supply chain and retail operations, from design to distribution and sales, and are used as a method of communication among employees, with our subsidiaries and liaison offices overseas and with our customers, vendors and retail stores. We also rely on our information systems to allocate resources, pay vendors, collect from customers, manage product data, develop demand and supply plans, forecast and report operating results, and meet regulatory requirements.. Our legacy ERP, product development, retail point-of-sale and other systems, on which we continue to manage a substantial portion of our business activities, are highly customized. As a result, the availability of internal and external resources with the expertise to maintain these systems is limited. Our legacy systems may not support desired functionality for our operations and may inhibit our ability to operate efficiently, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. As we continue to transition from our legacy ERP and supporting systems to our new ERP and supporting systems and as we initiate our global retail platform initiative, certain functionality and information from our legacy systems, including that of third party systems that interface with our legacy systems, may not be fully compatible with the new systems. As a result, temporary processes or solutions may be required, including manual operations, which could significantly increase the risk of loss or corruption of data and information used by the business or result in business disruptions, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. 10. A Breach in the Security of Our Systems, Exposure of Personal or Confidential Information or Increased Government Regulation Relating to Handling of Personal Data, Could, Among Other Things, Disrupt Our Operations or Cause Us to Incur Substantial Costs. We manage and store various types of proprietary information and sensitive and confidential data relating to our business, including personally identifiable information. Our information systems, or those of certain key partners whose information systems we may rely on, are subject to an increasing threat of continually evolving cybersecurity risks. Unauthorized parties may attempt to gain access to our systems or information through fraud or other means of deceiving our employees or third-party service providers. Hardware, software or applications we develop or obtain from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information security. The methods used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems are constantly changing and evolving, and may be difficult to anticipate or detect for long periods of time. We have implemented and regularly review and update processes and procedures to protect against unauthorized access to or use of secured data and to prevent data loss. However, the ever-evolving threats mean we must continually evaluate and adapt our systems and processes, and there is no guarantee that they will be adequate to safeguard against all data security breaches or misuses of data. For example, in February 2017, we reported the discovery of a cybersecurity incident involving our prAna.com e-commerce website, for which a number of responsive actions were taken, including notification of potentially affected prAna customers.. In addition, any future breaches of our security measures, or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved or non-compliant dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive and confidential data about us, our customers, our suppliers, or our employees, could expose us, our customers, our suppliers, our employees, or other individuals that may be affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability for us, damage our reputation, or otherwise harm our business and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, as the regulatory environment related to information security, data collection and use and privacy becomes increasingly rigorous, with new and constantly changing requirements applicable to our business, compliance with those requirements could also result in additional costs. For example, the European Union adopted a new regulation that becomes effective May 25, 2018, called the General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\"), which requires companies to meet additional requirements regarding the handling of personal data, including its use, protection and the ability of persons whose data is stored to exercise certain individual rights with respect to their personal data. The GDPR calls for privacy and process enhancements, accompanied by a commitment of resources and other expenditures in support of compliance. Violations of the GDPR could result in significant penalties.. We Depend on Contract Manufacturers. Our products are manufactured by contract manufacturers worldwide. Although we enter into purchase order commitments with these contract manufacturers each season, we generally do not maintain long-term manufacturing commitments with them. Without long-term or reserve commitments, there is no assurance that we will be able to secure adequate or timely production capacity or favorable pricing if growth or product demand differs from our forecasts. Contract manufacturers may fail to perform as expected or our competitors may obtain production capacities that effectively limit or eliminate the availability of these resources to us. If a contract manufacturer fails to ship orders in a timely manner or to meet our standards or if we are unable to obtain necessary capacities, we could experience supply disruptions that would hinder our ability to satisfy demand through our direct-to-consumer businesses and we may miss delivery deadlines or incur additional costs, which may cause our wholesale or distributor customers to cancel their orders, refuse to accept deliveries or demand a reduction in purchase prices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Reliance on contract manufacturers also creates quality control risks. Contract manufacturers may need to use sub-contracted manufacturers to fulfill demand and these manufacturers may have less experience producing our products or possess lower overall capabilities, which could result in compromised quality of our products. A failure in our quality control program, or a failure of our contract manufacturers or their contractors to meet our quality control standards, may result in diminished product quality, which in turn could result in increased order cancellations, price concessions and returns, decreased consumer demand for our products, non-compliance with our product standards or regulatory requirements, or product recalls (or other regulatory actions), any of which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. 11. We also have license agreements that permit unaffiliated parties to manufacture or contract to manufacture products using our trademarks. We impose standards of manufacturing practices on our contract manufacturers and licensees for the benefit of workers and require compliance with our restricted substances list and product safety and other applicable environmental, health and safety laws. We also require our contract manufacturers and licensees to impose these practices, standards and laws on their contractors. If a contract manufacturer, licensee or subcontractor violates labor or other laws or engages in practices that are not generally accepted as safe or ethical, the manufacturer, licensee or subcontractor or its respective employees may suffer serious injury due to industrial accidents, the manufacturer may suffer disruptions to its operations due to work stoppages or employee protests and we may experience production disruptions, lost sales or significant negative publicity that could result in long-term damage to our reputation. In some circumstances, parties may assert that we are liable for our independent manufacturers', licensees' or subcontractors' labor and operational practices, which could have a material adverse effect on our brand image and our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, in particular if such assertions are successful.. We May Be Adversely Affected by Volatility in Global Production and Transportation Costs and Capacity. Our product costs are subject to substantial fluctuation based on:. • Availability and quality of raw materials;. • The prices of oil, leather, natural down, cotton, and other raw materials whose prices are determined by global commodity markets and can be very volatile;. • Changes in labor markets and wage rates paid by our independent factory partners, which are often mandated by governments in the countries where our products are manufactured, for example in China and Vietnam;. • Disruption to shipping and transportation channels utilized to bring our products to market;. • Interest rates and currency exchange rates;. • Availability of skilled labor and production capacity at contract manufacturers; and. • General economic conditions.. Prolonged periods of inflationary pressure on some or all input costs will result in increased costs to produce our products that may result in reduced gross profit or necessitate price increases for our products that could adversely affect consumer demand for our products.. In addition, many of our products are manufactured outside of our principal sales markets, which requires these products to be transported by third parties, sometimes over large geographical distances. Shortages in ocean or air freight capacity and volatile fuel costs can result in rapidly changing transportation costs. Similarly, disruption to shipping and transportation channels due to labor disputes could cause us to rely more heavily on alternative modes of transportation to achieve timely delivery to our customers, resulting in significantly higher freight costs. Because we price our products in advance and changes in transportation and other costs may be difficult to predict, we may not be able to pass all or any portion of these higher costs on to our customers or adjust our pricing structure in a timely manner in order to remain competitive, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. We May Be Adversely Affected by Volatile Economic Conditions. We are a consumer products company and are highly dependent on consumer discretionary spending and retail traffic patterns. Purchasing patterns of our wholesale customers can vary year to year as they attempt to forecast and match their seasonal advance orders, in-season replenishment and at-once orders to eventual seasonal consumer demand. In addition, as we have expanded our direct-to-consumer businesses, we have increased our direct exposure to the risks associated with volatile and unpredictable consumer discretionary spending patterns. Consumer discretionary spending behavior is inherently unpredictable and consumer demand for our products may not reach our sales targets, or may decline, especially during periods of heightened economic uncertainty in our key markets. Our sensitivity to economic cycles and any related fluctuation in consumer demand may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. We May Be Adversely Affected by the Financial Health of Our Customers. 12. In recent periods, sluggish economies and consumer uncertainty regarding future economic prospects in our key markets have had an adverse effect on the financial health of our customers, some of whom have reduced their store fleet, filed or may file for protection under bankruptcy laws, restructured, or ceased operations, which may in turn have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We extend credit to our customers based on an assessment of the customer's financial condition, generally without requiring collateral. To assist in the scheduling of production and the shipping of seasonal products, we offer customers discounts for placing advance orders. In addition, we face increased risk of order reduction and cancellation and reduced availability of credit insurance coverage when dealing with financially ailing retailers or retailers struggling with economic uncertainty. Some of our significant wholesale customers and international independent distributors have liquidated or reorganized, while others have had financial difficulties in the past or have experienced tightened credit markets, sales declines and reduced profitability, which in turn have had an adverse effect on our business. Future customer liquidations or reorganizations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We may choose to limit our credit risk by reducing our level of business with customers experiencing financial difficulties and may not be able to replace those revenues with other customers or through our direct-to-consumer businesses within a reasonable period, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. We May Be Adversely Affected by Retailer Consolidation. When our wholesale customers combine their operations through mergers, acquisitions or other transactions, their consolidated order volume may decrease while their bargaining power and the competitive threat they pose by marketing products under their own private labels may increase. Some of our significant customers have consolidated their operations in the past, which in turn has had a negative effect on our business. Future customer consolidations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. We May Be Adversely Affected by Global Credit Market Conditions. Economic downturns and economic uncertainty generally affect global credit markets. Our vendors, customers and other participants in our supply chain may require access to credit markets in order to do business. Credit market conditions may slow our collection efforts as customers find it more difficult to obtain necessary financing, leading to higher than normal accounts receivable. This could result in greater expense associated with collection efforts and increased bad debt expense. Credit conditions may impair our vendors' ability to finance the purchase of raw materials or general working capital needs to support our production requirements, resulting in a delay or non-receipt of inventory shipments during key seasons.. Historically, we have limited our reliance on debt to finance our working capital, capital expenditures and investing activity requirements. We expect to fund our future capital expenditures with existing cash, expected operating cash flows and credit facilities, but, if the need arises to finance additional expenditures, we may need to seek additional funding. Our ability to obtain additional financing will depend on many factors, including prevailing market conditions, our financial condition and our ability to negotiate favorable terms and conditions. Financing may not be available on terms that are acceptable or favorable to us, if at all.. We May Be Adversely Affected by Currency Exchange Rate Fluctuations. We derive a significant portion of our net sales from markets outside the United States, comprised of sales to wholesale customers and directly to consumers by our consolidated subsidiaries in Europe, Korea, Japan, and Canada, our China joint venture, and sales to independent international distributors who operate within the EMEA and LAAP regions. Sales and related operational expenses of our foreign subsidiaries and China joint venture, as well as their respective assets and liabilities, are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar and translated into U.S. dollars for periodic reporting purposes using the exchange rates in effect during each period. If the U.S. dollar strengthens against the foreign subsidiary's functional currency, translated revenues and expenses will decline on a relative basis.. The majority of our purchases of finished goods inventory from contract manufacturers are denominated in U.S. dollars, including purchases by our foreign subsidiaries and China joint venture. The cost of these products may be affected by relative changes in the value of the local currencies of these subsidiaries and the joint venture in relation to the U.S. dollar and in relation to the local currencies of our manufacturing vendors. In order to facilitate solicitation of advance orders from wholesale customers and distributors for the spring and fall seasons, we establish local-currency-denominated wholesale and retail price lists in each of our foreign subsidiaries approximately six to nine months prior to U.S. dollar-. 13. denominated seasonal inventory purchases. As a result, our consolidated results are directly exposed to transactional foreign currency exchange risk to the extent that the U.S. dollar strengthens during the six to nine months between when we establish seasonal local-currency prices and when we purchase inventory.. We employ several tactics in an effort to mitigate this transactional currency risk, including the use of currency forward and option contracts. We may also implement local-currency wholesale and retail price increases in our subsidiary and joint venture markets in an effort to mitigate the effects of currency exchange rate fluctuations on inventory costs. There is no assurance that our use of currency forward and option contracts and implementation of price increases, in combination with other tactics, will succeed in fully mitigating the negative effects of adverse foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on the cost of our finished goods in a given period or that price increases will be accepted by our wholesale customers, distributors or consumers. Our gross margins are adversely affected whenever we are not able to offset the full extent of finished goods cost increases caused by adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.. We enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage currency exposures for monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than an entity's functional currency. As a result, any foreign currency remeasurement  gains and losses recorded in other income (expense) are generally offset with gains and losses on the foreign currency forward exchange contracts in the same reporting period.. In addition to the direct currency exchange rate exposures described above, our business is indirectly exposed to currency exchange rate risks. For example, all of the EMEA and LAAP distributors to whom we sell purchase their inventory from us in U.S. dollars. Weakening of a distributor's functional currency relative to the U.S. dollar makes it more expensive for it to purchase finished goods inventory from us. In order to make those purchases and pay us on a timely basis, our distributors must exchange sufficient quantities of their functional currency for U.S. dollars through the financial markets. Some of our distributors have experienced periods during which they have been unable to obtain U.S. dollars in sufficient amounts to complete their purchase of finished goods inventory or to pay amounts owed for past purchases. Although each distributor bears the full risk of fluctuations in the value of its currency against the U.S. dollar, our business can be indirectly affected when adverse fluctuations cause a distributor to cancel portions of prior advance orders or significantly reduce its future purchases or both. In addition, price increases that our distributors implement in an effort to offset higher product costs may make our products less price-competitive in those markets and reduce consumer demand for our products.. Currency exchange rate fluctuations may also create indirect risk to our business by disrupting the business of independent finished goods manufacturers from which we purchase our products. When their functional currencies weaken in relation to other currencies, the raw materials they purchase on global commodities markets become more expensive and more difficult to finance. Although each manufacturer bears the full risk of fluctuations in the value of its currency against other currencies, our business can be indirectly affected when adverse fluctuations cause a manufacturer to raise the prices of goods it produces for us, disrupt the manufacturer's ability to purchase the necessary raw materials on a timely basis or disrupt the manufacturer's ability to function as an ongoing business.. Primarily for each of the reasons described above, currency fluctuations and disruptions in currency exchange markets may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Our Orders from Customers Are Subject to Cancellation. We do not have long-term contracts with any of our wholesale customers. We do have contracts with our independent international distributors; however, although these contracts may have annual purchase minimums which must be met in order to retain distribution rights, the distributors are not otherwise obligated to purchase product. Sales to our wholesale customers and distributors are generally on an order-by-order basis and are subject to rights of cancellation and rescheduling. We consider the timing of delivery dates in our wholesale customer orders when we forecast our sales and earnings for future periods. If any of our major customers, including distributors, experience a significant downturn in business or fail to remain committed to our products or brands, these customers could postpone, reduce, cancel, or discontinue purchases from us. As a result, we could experience a decline in sales or gross profit, write-downs of excess inventory, increased discounts, extended credit terms to our customers, or uncollectable accounts receivable, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. We May Not Realize Returns on Our Investments in Our Direct-to-Consumer Businesses. In recent years, our direct-to-consumer businesses have grown substantially and we anticipate continued growth in the future. Accordingly, we continue to make significant investments in our online platforms and physical retail locations, including the investment in our global retail platform, system upgrades, entering into long-term store leases, constructing. 14. leasehold improvements, purchasing fixtures and equipment, and investing in inventory and personnel. Since many of the costs of our direct-to-consumer businesses are fixed, we may be unable to reduce expenses in order to avoid losses or negative cash flows if we have insufficient sales. Our direct-to-consumer businesses are dependent upon our ability to operate in an increasingly complex and evolving marketplace and the results of these businesses are highly dependent on retail traffic patterns in our physical locations and our on-line platforms where our products are sold, as well as the spending patterns of our consumers. If we are unable to effectively navigate the direct-to-consumer marketplace or anticipate consumer buying patterns, our ability to generate sales through our direct-to-consumer businesses may be adversely affected, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Labor costs and labor-related benefits are primary components in the cost of our retail operations and are affected by various federal, state and foreign laws governing matters such as minimum wage rates, overtime compensation and other requirements. For example, we have seen significant political pressure and legislative actions to increase the minimum wage rate in many of the jurisdictions within which our stores are located. If we are unable to operate profitable stores or if we close stores, we may experience significant reductions in sales and income or incur significant write-downs of inventory, severance costs, lease termination costs, impairment losses on long-lived assets, or loss of working capital, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. In addition, from time to time we license the right to operate retail stores for our brands to third parties, primarily to our independent international distributors. We provide training to support these stores and set operational standards. However, these third parties may not operate the stores in a manner consistent with our standards, which could cause reputational damage to our brands or harm these third parties' sales and as a result harm our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Our Results of Operations Could Be Materially Harmed If We Are Unable to Accurately Match Supply Forecast with Consumer Demand for Our Products. Many factors may significantly affect demand for our products, including, among other things, economic conditions, fashion trends, the financial condition of our independent international distributors and wholesale customers, consumer and customer preferences, and weather, making it difficult to accurately forecast demand for our products and our future results of operations. To minimize our purchasing costs, the time necessary to fill customer orders and the risk of non-delivery, we place a significant amount of orders for our products with contract manufacturers prior to receiving orders from our customers, and we maintain an inventory of various products that we anticipate will be in greatest demand. In addition, customers are generally allowed to cancel orders prior to shipment.. Factors that could affect our ability to accurately forecast demand for our products include:. • Unseasonable weather conditions;. • Our reliance, for certain demand and supply planning functions, on manual processes and judgments that are subject to human error;. • Consumer acceptance of our products or changes in consumer demand for products of our competitors, which could increase pressure on our product development cycle;. • Unanticipated changes in general market conditions or other factors, which may result in lower advance orders from wholesale customers and distributors, cancellations of advance orders or a reduction or increase in the rate of reorders placed by retailers; and. • Weak economic conditions or consumer confidence, which could reduce demand for discretionary items such as our products.. In some cases, we may produce quantities of product that exceed actual demand, which could result in higher inventory levels that we need to liquidate at discounted prices. During periods of unseasonable weather conditions, weak economic conditions, unfavorable currency fluctuations, or unfavorable geopolitical conditions in key markets, we may experience a significant increase in the volume of order cancellations by our customers, including cancellations resulting from the bankruptcy, liquidation or contraction of some customers' operations. We may not be able to sell all of the products we have ordered from contract manufacturers or that we have in our inventory. Inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write-downs and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices through our owned outlet stores or third-party liquidation channels, which could have a material adverse effect on our brand image, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.. 15. Conversely, if we underestimate demand for our products or if our contract manufacturers are unable to supply products when we need them, we may experience inventory shortages. Inventory shortages may prevent us from fulfilling customer orders, delay shipments to customers, negatively affect customer relationships, result in increased costs to expedite production and delivery, and diminish our ability to build brand loyalty. Shipments delayed due to limited factory capacity, transportation or port disruption or other factors could result in order cancellations by our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. We Face Risks Associated with Consumer Preferences and Fashion Trends. Changes in consumer preferences, consumer purchasing behavior or consumer interest in outdoor activities may have a material adverse effect on our business and changes in fashion trends may have a greater effect than in the past as we expand our offerings to include more product categories in more geographic areas that are generally more sensitive to fashion trends. We also face risks because our success depends on our and our customers' abilities to anticipate consumer preferences and buying patterns, including the growth of e-commerce off-price retailing, and respond to changes in a timely manner. Lead times for many of our products may make it more difficult for us to respond rapidly to new or changing product trends or consumer preferences. In addition, our decisions about product designs often are made far in advance of consumer acceptance. Although we try to manage our inventory risk by soliciting advance order commitments from customers, we generally place a significant portion of our seasonal production orders with our contract manufacturers before we have received all of a season's advance orders from customers, and orders may be canceled by customers before shipment. If we or our customers fail to anticipate and respond to consumer preferences or fail to respond in a timely manner or if we or our customers are unable to effectively navigate a transforming retail marketplace, we could suffer reputational damage to our brands and we may experience lower sales, excess inventories and lower profit margins in current and future periods, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. We May Be Adversely Affected by Weather Conditions, Including Global Climate Change Trends. Our business is adversely affected by unseasonable weather conditions. A significant portion of the sales of our products is dependent in part on the weather and likely to decline in years in which weather conditions do not stimulate demand for our products. Periods of unseasonably warm weather in the fall or winter or unseasonably cold weather in the spring and summer may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Unintended inventory accumulation by our wholesale customers resulting from unseasonable weather in one season generally negatively affects orders in future seasons, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. A significant portion of our business is highly dependent on cold-weather seasons and patterns to generate consumer demand for our cold-weather apparel and footwear. Consumer demand for our cold-weather apparel and footwear may be negatively affected to the extent global weather patterns trend warmer, reducing typical patterns of cold-weather events or increasing weather volatility, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Acquisitions Are Subject to Many Risks. From time to time, we may pursue growth through strategic acquisitions of assets or companies. Acquisitions, such as our acquisition of prAna in May 2014, are subject to many risks, including potential loss of significant customers or key personnel of the acquired business as a result of the change in ownership, difficulty integrating the operations of the acquired business or achieving targeted efficiencies, the incurrence of substantial costs and expenses related to the acquisition effort, and diversion of management's attention from other aspects of our business operations.. Acquisitions may also cause us to incur debt or result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities. Our acquisitions may cause large one-time expenses or create goodwill or other intangible assets that could result in significant impairment charges in the future. We also make various estimates and assumptions in order to determine purchase price allocation and estimate the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. If our estimates or assumptions used to value these assets and liabilities vary from actual or future projected results, we may be exposed to losses, including impairment losses, that could be material.. We do not provide any assurance that we will be able to successfully integrate the operations of any acquired businesses into our operations or achieve the expected benefits of any acquisitions. The failure to successfully integrate newly acquired. 16. businesses or achieve the expected benefits of strategic acquisitions in the future could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We may not complete a potential acquisition for a variety of reasons, but we may nonetheless incur material costs in the preliminary stages of evaluating and pursuing such an acquisition that we cannot recover.. We May Not Realize All of the Anticipated Benefits of Our Joint Venture in China. Effective January 2014, our joint venture in China with Swire began operations. The joint venture, in which we hold a 60% interest, is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. For example, because our joint venture partner has protective voting rights with respect to specified major business decisions of the joint venture, we may experience difficulty reaching agreement as to implementation of various changes to the joint venture's business. For this reason, or as a result of other factors, we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of the joint venture, and our results of operations could be adversely affected.. Global Regulation and Economic and Political Conditions, as well as Potential Changes in Regulations, Legislation and Government Policy, May Negatively Affect Our Business. We are subject to risks generally associated with doing business internationally. These risks include the effects of foreign and domestic laws and regulations, foreign or domestic government fiscal and political crises, political and economic disputes and sanctions, changes in diverse consumer preferences, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, managing a diverse and widespread workforce, political unrest, terrorist acts, military operations, disruptions or delays in shipments, disease outbreaks, natural disasters, and changes in economic conditions in countries in which we manufacture or sell products. These factors, among others, may affect our ability to sell products in certain markets, our ability to collect accounts receivable, our ability to manufacture products or procure materials, and our cost of doing business.. For example, in the past, political and economic turmoil in certain South American distributor markets have resulted in currency and import restrictions, limiting our ability to sell products in some countries in this region. Also, Russia constitutes a significant portion of our non-U.S. sales and operating income and a significant change in conditions in that market has had an adverse effect on our results of operations in the past. The United Kingdom's June 23, 2016 referendum, in which voters approved its exit from the European Union (commonly referred to as \"Brexit\"), has created economic uncertainty and volatility in currency exchange rates, and the potential adverse effects of changes to the legal and regulatory framework that apply to the United Kingdom and its relationship with the European Union, and the associated effects on our European operations, are unknown. If any of these or other factors make the conduct of business in a particular country, or region, undesirable or impractical, our business may be materially and adversely affected.. In the U.S., the current administration has publicly supported potential trade proposals, including import tariffs, modifications to international trade policy, and other changes that may affect U.S. trade relations with other countries, any of which may require us to significantly modify our current business practices or may otherwise materially and adversely affect our business.. In addition, many of our imported products are subject to duties, tariffs or other import limitations that affect the cost and quantity of various types of goods imported into the United States and other markets. Any country in which our products are produced or sold may eliminate, adjust or impose new import limitations, duties, anti-dumping penalties, or other charges or restrictions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. We May Have Additional Tax Liabilities or Experience Increased Volatility in Our Effective Tax Rate. As a global company, we determine our income tax liability in various tax jurisdictions based on an analysis and interpretation of local tax laws and regulations. This analysis requires a significant amount of judgment and estimation and is often based on various assumptions about the future actions of the local tax authorities. These determinations are the subject of periodic domestic and foreign tax audits. Although we accrue for uncertain tax positions, our accruals may be insufficient to satisfy unfavorable findings. Unfavorable audit findings and tax rulings may result in payment of taxes, fines and penalties for prior periods and higher tax rates in future periods, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. Government enacted comprehensive tax legislation, commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"TCJA\").  The TCJA makes broad and complex changes to the U.S. tax code. Implementation of the TCJA legislation required us to record incremental provisional tax expense in 2017, which significantly increased our. 17. 2017 effective tax rate. In addition, the TCJA may also materially affect our 2018 effective tax rate and our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The actual amounts may differ from these provisional estimates due to, among other factors, a change in interpretation of the applicable revisions to the U.S. tax code and related tax accounting guidance, changes in assumptions made in developing these estimates, and regulatory guidance that may be issued with respect to the applicable revisions to the U.S. tax code, and state tax implications.. Other changes in the tax laws of the jurisdictions where we do business, including an increase in tax rates or an adverse change in the treatment of an item of income or expense, could result in a material increase in our tax expense. For example, changes in the tax laws of foreign jurisdictions could arise as a result of the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) project undertaken by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). The OECD, which represents a coalition of member countries, has recommended changes to numerous long-standing tax principles. As these changes are adopted by countries, tax uncertainty could increase and may adversely affect our provision for income taxes.. We Operate in Highly Competitive Markets. The markets for apparel, footwear, accessories, and equipment are highly competitive, as are the markets for our licensed products. In each of our geographic markets, we face significant competition from global and regional branded apparel, footwear, accessories, and equipment companies, including competition from companies with significantly greater resources than ours.. Retailers who are our customers often pose our most significant competitive threat by designing and marketing apparel, footwear, accessories, and equipment under their own private labels. For example, in the United States and Europe, several of our largest customers have developed significant private label brands that compete directly with our products. These retailers have assumed an increasing degree of inventory risk in their private label products and, as a result, may first cancel advance orders with us in order to manage their own inventory levels downward during periods of unseasonable weather or weak economic cycles. As our direct-to-consumer businesses grow, we also experience direct competition from retailers that are our customers, some of which primarily operate e-commerce operations and employ aggressive pricing strategies. We also compete with other companies for the production capacity of contract manufacturers from which we source our products and for import capacity. Many of our competitors are significantly larger than we are and have substantially greater financial, distribution, marketing, and other resources, more stable manufacturing resources and greater brand strength than we have. In addition, when our competitors combine operations through mergers, acquisitions or other transactions, their competitive strengths may increase.. Increased competition may result in reduced access to production capacity, challenges in obtaining favorable locations for our retail stores, reductions in display areas in retail locations, reductions in sales, or reductions in our profit margins, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. We Rely on Innovation to Compete in the Market for Our Products. To distinguish our products in the marketplace and achieve commercial success, we rely on product innovations, including new or exclusive technologies, inventive and appealing design or other differentiating features. Although we are committed to designing innovative and functional products that deliver relevant performance benefits to consumers, who participate in a wide range of competitive and recreational outdoor activities, if we fail to introduce technical innovation in our products that address consumers' performance expectations, we could suffer reputational damage to our brands and demand for our products could decline.. As we strive to achieve product innovations, we face a greater risk of inadvertent infringements of third party rights or compliance issues with regulations applicable to products with technical features or components. In addition, technical innovations often involve more complex manufacturing processes, which may lead to higher instances of quality issues, and if we experience problems with the quality of our products, we may incur substantial expense to address the problems and any associated product risks. Failure to successfully bring to market innovations in our product lines could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Our Success Depends on Our Use and Protection of Intellectual Property Rights. Our registered and common law trademarks and our patented or patent-pending designs and technologies have significant value and are important to our ability to differentiate our products from those of our competitors and to create. 18. and sustain demand for our products. We also place significant value on our trade dress, the overall appearance and image of our products. We regularly discover products that are counterfeit reproductions of our products or that otherwise infringe on our proprietary rights. Counterfeiting activities typically increase as brand recognition increases, especially in markets outside the United States. Increased instances of counterfeit manufacture and sales may adversely affect our sales and the reputation of our brands and result in a shift of consumer preference away from our products. The actions we take to establish and protect trademarks and other proprietary rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as violations of proprietary rights. In markets outside of the United States, it may be more difficult for us to establish our proprietary rights and to successfully challenge use of those rights by other parties. We also license our proprietary rights to third parties. We could suffer reputational damage to our brands if we fail to choose appropriate licensees and licensed product categories. In addition to our own intellectual property rights, many of the intellectual property rights in the technology, fabrics and processes used to manufacture our products are generally owned or controlled by our suppliers and are generally not unique to us. In those cases, we may not be able to adequately protect our products or differentiate their performance characteristics and fabrications from those of our competitors. The management of our intellectual property portfolio may affect the strength of our brands, which may in turn have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Although we have not been materially inhibited from selling products in connection with patent, trademark and trade dress disputes, as we focus on innovation in our product lines, extend our brands into new product categories and expand the geographic scope of our marketing, we may become subject to litigation based on allegations of infringement or other improper use of intellectual property rights of third parties, including third party trademark, copyright and patent rights. An increasing number of our products include technologies or designs for which we have obtained or applied for patent protection. Failure to successfully obtain and maintain patents on these innovations could negatively affect our ability to market and sell our products. Litigation is often necessary to defend against claims of infringement or to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights. As we utilize e-commerce and social media to a greater degree in our sales and marketing efforts, we face an increasing risk of patent infringement claims from non-operating entities and others covering broad functional aspects of internet operations. Intellectual property litigation may be costly and may divert management's attention from the operation of our business. Adverse determinations in any litigation may result in the loss of our proprietary rights, subject us to significant liabilities or require us to seek licenses from third parties, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Any of these outcomes may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. In addition, as we continue to operate globally, expand the geographic scope of our business, and adopt new technologies and product categories, intellectual property disputes may increase, making it more expensive and challenging to establish and protect our intellectual property rights and to defend against claims of infringement by others, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Our Success Depends on Our Distribution Facilities. Our ability to meet customer expectations, manage inventory, complete sales, and achieve objectives for operating efficiencies depends on the proper operation of our existing distribution facilities, as well as the facilities of our third-party logistics companies, the development or expansion of additional distribution capabilities and services, such as the transition of value-added services functions from contract manufacturers to our distribution centers, and the timely performance of services by third parties, including those involved in shipping product to and from our distribution facilities. In the United States, we rely primarily on our distribution centers in Portland, Oregon and Robards, Kentucky; in Canada, we rely primarily on our distribution facility in London, Ontario; in Europe, we rely primarily on our distribution center in Cambrai, France; in Japan, Korea, and China, we rely primarily on third-party logistics companies near Tokyo, Seoul, and Shanghai, respectively.. Our primary distribution facilities in the United States, France and Canada are highly automated, which means that their operations are complicated and may be subject to a number of risks related to computer viruses, the proper operation of software and hardware, electronic or power interruptions, and other system failures. Risks associated with upgrading or expanding these facilities may significantly disrupt or increase the cost of our operations. For example, in addition to supporting our traditional wholesale business, our existing distribution facilities have been modified to enable them to also support our direct-to-consumer businesses in the United States, Canada and Europe. Failure to successfully maintain and update these modifications could disrupt our wholesale and e-commerce shipments and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. 19. The fixed costs associated with owning, operating and maintaining these large, highly automated distribution centers during a period of economic weakness or declining sales can result in lower operating efficiencies, financial deleverage and potential impairment in the recorded value of distribution assets. This has occurred in recent years in Europe, where our distribution center is underutilized. This fixed cost structure may make it difficult for us to achieve or maintain profitability if sales volumes decline for an extended period of time and could have material adverse effects on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Our distribution facilities may also be interrupted by natural disasters, such as earthquakes, floods, damaging winds, or fires. We maintain business interruption insurance, but it may not adequately protect us from the adverse effect that may be caused by significant disruptions in our distribution facilities.. Our Investment Securities May Be Adversely Affected by Market Conditions. Our investment portfolio is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. Changes in market conditions, such as those that accompany an economic downturn or economic uncertainty, may negatively affect the value and liquidity of our investment portfolio, perhaps significantly. Our ability to find diversified investments that are both safe and liquid and that provide a reasonable return may be impaired, potentially resulting in lower interest income, less diversification, longer investment maturities, or other-than-temporary impairments.. We May Be Adversely Affected by Labor Disruptions, Changes in Labor Laws and Other Labor Issues. Our business depends on our ability to source and distribute products in a timely manner. While a majority of our own operations are not subject to organized labor agreements, our relationship with our Cambrai distribution center employees is governed by French law, which includes a formal representation of employees by a Works Council and the application of a collective bargaining agreement. Labor disputes at contract manufacturers where our goods are produced, shipping ports, transportation carriers, retail stores, or distribution centers create significant risks for our business, particularly if these disputes result in work slowdowns, lockouts, strikes, or other disruptions during our peak manufacturing, shipping and selling seasons. For example, work slowdowns and stoppages at ports on the west coast of the United States have, in the past, resulted in product delays and increased costs. Labor disruptions may have a material adverse effect on our business, potentially resulting in canceled orders by customers, unanticipated inventory accumulation and reduced revenues and earnings.. Our ability to meet our labor needs at our distribution centers, retail stores, corporate headquarters, and regional subsidiaries, including our ability to find qualified employees while controlling wage and related labor costs, is generally subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force of the markets in which our operations are located, unemployment levels within those markets, prevailing and minimum wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs, and adoption of new or revised employment and labor laws and regulations. If we are unable to locate, attract or retain qualified employees, our ability to source, distribute and sell products in a timely and cost-effective manner may be negatively affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. We Depend on Key Suppliers. Some of the materials that we use may be available from only one source or a very limited number of sources. For example, some specialty fabrics are manufactured to our specification by one source or a few sources, and a single vendor supplies the majority of the zippers used in our products. From time to time, we have difficulty satisfying our raw material and finished goods requirements. Although we believe that we can identify and qualify additional contract manufacturers to produce these materials as necessary, there are no guarantees that additional contract manufacturers will be available. In addition, depending on the timing, any changes in sources or materials may result in increased costs or production delays, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. 20. We Depend on Key Personnel. Our future success will depend in part on the continued service of key personnel and our ability to attract, retain and develop key managers, designers, sales and information technology professionals, and others. We face intense competition for these individuals worldwide, and there is a significant concentration of well-funded apparel and footwear competitors near our headquarters in Portland, Oregon. We may not be able to attract qualified new employees or retain existing employees, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Our Business Is Affected by Seasonality. Our business is affected by the general seasonal trends common to the outdoor industry. Our products are marketed on a seasonal basis and our annual net sales are weighted heavily toward the fall/winter season, while our operating expenses are more equally distributed throughout the year. As a result, the majority, and sometimes all, of our operating profits are generated in the second half of the year. The expansion of our direct-to-consumer businesses and sales growth in our winter footwear business has increased the proportion of sales and profits that we generate in the fourth calendar quarter. This seasonality, along with other factors that are beyond our control and that are discussed elsewhere in this section, may adversely affect our business and cause our results of operations to fluctuate. As a result, our profitability may be materially affected if management is not able to timely adjust expenses in reaction to adverse events such as unfavorable weather, weak consumer spending patterns or unanticipated levels of order cancellations. Results of operations in any period should not be considered indicative of the results to be expected for any future period.. Our Products Are Subject to Increasing Product Regulations and We Face Risks of Product Liability and Warranty Claims. Our products are subject to increasingly stringent and complex domestic and foreign product labeling and performance and safety standards, laws and other regulations. These requirements could result in greater expense associated with compliance efforts, and failure to comply with these regulations could result in a delay, non-delivery, recall, or destruction of inventory shipments during key seasons or in other financial penalties. Significant or continuing noncompliance with these standards and laws could disrupt our business and harm our reputation and, as a result, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Our products are used in outdoor activities, sometimes in severe conditions. Product recalls or product liability claims resulting from the failure, or alleged failure, of our products could have a material adverse effect on the reputation of our brands, our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Most of our products carry limited warranties for defects in quality and workmanship. We maintain a warranty reserve for estimated future warranty claims, but the actual costs of servicing future warranty claims may exceed the reserve, which may also have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Our Common Stock Price May Be Volatile. The price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially since our initial public offering. Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. Factors such as general market conditions, actions by institutional investors to rapidly accumulate or divest of a substantial number of our shares, fluctuations in financial results, variances from financial market expectations, changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by analysts, or announcements by us or our competitors may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially.. Insiders Control a Majority of Our Common Stock and May Sell Shares. Five related shareholders, Gertrude Boyle, Sarah Bany, Timothy Boyle, Joseph Boyle, and Molly Boyle, beneficially own a majority of our common stock. As a result, if acting together, they can effectively control matters requiring shareholder approval without the cooperation of other shareholders. Shares held by these five shareholders are available for resale, subject to the requirements of, and the rules under, the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The sale or the prospect of the sale of a substantial number of these shares may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock."
