[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. Risks Related to Our Business. We are recently formed and have a very limited operating history; therefore there is no assurance that we will be able to successfully operate our business as a publicly traded company or generate sufficient cash flows to make or sustain distributions to our stockholders.. We commenced operations on May 27, 2015 and have a very limited operating history. We are subject to all of the business risks and uncertainties associated with any new business, including the risk that we will not achieve our investment objectives as described in this report and that the value of your investment could decline substantially. Our financial condition and results of operations will depend on many factors, including the availability of acquisition opportunities, readily accessible short- and long-term financing, conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally. There can be no assurance that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flow over time to pay our operating expenses and make distributions to stockholders. If we fail to successfully operate our business, implement our investment strategy or generate sufficient revenue to make or sustain distributions to stockholders, the value of your investment could decline significantly or you could lose all or a portion of your investment.. Our real estate investments are concentrated in healthcare properties, making us more vulnerable economically than if our investments were diversified in other segments of the economy.. We acquire, own, manage, operate and selectively develop properties for lease primarily to physicians and healthcare delivery systems. We are subject to risks inherent in concentrating investments in real estate, and the risks resulting from a lack of diversification is even greater as a result of our business strategy to concentrate our investments in the healthcare sector. Any adverse effects that result from these risks could be more pronounced than if we diversified our investments outside of healthcare properties. Given our concentration in this sector, our tenant base is especially concentrated and dependent upon the healthcare industry generally, and any industry downturn could adversely affect the ability of our tenants to make lease payments and our ability to maintain current rental and occupancy rates. Our tenant mix could become even more concentrated if a significant portion of our tenants practice in a particular medical field or are reliant upon a particular healthcare delivery system. Accordingly, a downturn in the healthcare industry generally, or in the healthcare related facility specifically, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and the market price of our common shares.. We may be unable to source off-market or lightly marketed deal flow in the future, which may have a material adverse effect on our growth.. A key component of our investment strategy is to acquire additional healthcare properties in off-market or lightly marketed transactions, relying on our officers' relationships with healthcare providers and real estate brokers. We seek to acquire properties before they are widely marketed by real estate brokers. As we expect to compete with many national, regional and local acquirers of healthcare properties, properties that are acquired in off-market or lightly marketed transactions are typically more attractive to us as a purchaser because of the absence of a formal sales process, which could lead to higher prices. In the formal sales process, our potential acquisition targets may find our competitors to be more attractive because they may have greater resources, may be willing to pay more for the properties or may have a more compatible operating philosophy. In particular, larger REITs, including publicly traded and privately held REITs, private equity investors or institutions investment funds who are targeting healthcare properties may enjoy significant competitive advantages that result from, among other things, a lower cost of capital, enhanced operating efficiencies, more risk tolerance, more personnel and market penetration and familiarity with markets. As such, if we do not have access to off-market or lightly marketed deal flow in the future, our ability to locate and acquire additional properties in our target submarkets at attractive prices could be materially and adversely affected, which could materially impede our growth, and, as a result, adversely affect our operating results.. 14. Our business could be harmed if key personnel terminate their employment with us or if we are unsuccessful in integrating new personnel into our operations.. Our success depends, to a significant extent, on the continued services of Mr. Timothy G. Wallace, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, Mr. W. Page Barnes, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and Ms. Leigh Ann Stach, our Vice President of Financial Reporting and Chief Accounting Officer. Each executive officer has significant experience in the healthcare and/or real estate industry and have all developed significant relationships with various healthcare providers and real estate brokers throughout the United States. Our ability to continue to acquire and develop healthcare properties in off market or lightly marketed transactions depends upon the significant relationships that our senior management team has developed over many years.. Although we have entered into employment agreements with Messrs. Wallace and Barnes and Ms. Stach, we cannot provide any assurance that any of them will remain employed by us. Our ability to retain our executive officers, or to attract suitable replacements should any member of the senior management team leave, is dependent on the competitive nature of the employment market. The loss of services of, or the failure to successfully integrate one or more new members of, our senior management team could adversely affect our business and our prospects.. We may be unable to complete any pending acquisitions, which would adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, earnings and cash flow.. We cannot assure you that we will complete any pending acquisitions on the terms described in this report or other reports the Company may file or furnish in future SEC filings, because these transactions are subject to a variety of conditions, including, in the case of properties under contract, the execution of a mutually agreed-upon lease between us and the proposed tenant, our satisfactory completion of due diligence and the satisfaction of customary closing conditions. These transactions, whether or not successful, require substantial time and attention from management. Furthermore, the pending acquisitions require significant expense, including expenses for due diligence, legal and accounting fees and other costs. If we are unable to complete the acquisitions of any potential acquisitions, we would still incur the costs associated with pursuing those investments, but would not generate the revenues and net operating income that we currently anticipate, which would adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and the market price of our common shares.. We may be unable to successfully acquire properties and expand our operations into new or existing target submarkets.. A component of our strategy is to pursue acquisitions of properties in new and existing target submarkets. These acquisitions could divert our officers' attention from other pending and/or potential acquisitions, and we may be unable to retain key employees or attract highly qualified new employees in those markets. In addition, we may not possess familiarity with the dynamics and prevailing conditions of any new target submarkets, which could adversely affect our ability to successfully expand into or operate within those markets. For example, new target submarkets may have different insurance practices, reimbursement rates and local real estate zoning regulations than those with which we are familiar. We may find ourselves more dependent on third parties in new target submarkets because our physical distance could hinder our ability to directly and efficiently manage and otherwise monitor new properties in new target submarkets. In addition, our expansion into new target submarkets could result in unexpected costs or delays as well as lower occupancy rates and other adverse consequences. We may not be successful in identifying suitable properties or other assets that meet our acquisition criteria or in consummating acquisitions on satisfactory terms or at all for a number of reasons, including, among other things, significant competition from other prospective purchasers in new target submarkets, unsatisfactory results of our due diligence investigations, failure to obtain financing for the acquisition on favorable terms or at all, and our misjudgment of the value of the opportunities. We may also be unable to successfully integrate the operations of acquired properties, maintain consistent standards, controls, policies and procedures, or realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions within the anticipated timeframe or at all. If we are unsuccessful in expanding into new or our existing target. 15. submarkets, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the market price of our common stock.. The bankruptcy, insolvency or weakened financial position of our tenants, and particularly our largest tenants, could materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. We receive substantially all of our revenue from rent payments from tenants under leases of space in our healthcare properties. We have no control over the success or failure of our tenants' businesses and, at any time, any of our tenants may experience a downturn in its business that may weaken its financial condition. Additionally, private or governmental payers may lower the reimbursement rates paid to our tenants for their healthcare services. For example, the Affordable Care Act provides for significant reductions to Medicare and Medicaid payments. As a result, our tenants may delay lease commencement or renewal, fail to make rent payments when due or declare bankruptcy. Any leasing delays, tenant failures to make rent payments when due or tenant bankruptcies could result in the termination of the tenant's lease and, particularly in the case of a large tenant, or a significant number of tenants, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the market price of our common stock. In addition, to the extent a tenant vacates specialized space in one of our properties (such as imaging space, ambulatory surgical space, or inpatient hospital space), re-leasing the vacated space could be more difficult than re-leasing less specialized office space, as there are fewer users for such specialized healthcare space in a typical market than for more traditional office space.. Any bankruptcy filings by or relating to one of our tenants could bar all efforts by us to collect pre-bankruptcy debts from that tenant or seize its property, unless we receive an order permitting us to do so from a bankruptcy court, which we may be unable to obtain. A tenant bankruptcy could also delay our efforts to collect past due balances under the relevant leases and could ultimately preclude full collection of these sums. Furthermore, if a tenant rejects the lease while in bankruptcy, we would have only a general unsecured claim for pre-petition damages. Any unsecured claim that we hold may be paid only to the extent that funds are available and only in the same percentage as is paid to all other holders of unsecured claims. It is possible that we may recover substantially less than the full value of any unsecured claims that we hold, if any, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the market price of our common stock. Furthermore, dealing with a tenant bankruptcy or other default may divert management's attention and cause us to incur substantial legal and other costs, which could adversely affect our ability to execute our business strategies, financial condition, and results of operations, as well as our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the market price of our common stock. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements regarding the bankruptcy filed by one of the Company's borrowers.. We may have difficulty finding suitable replacement tenants in the event of a tenant default or non-renewal of our leases, especially for our properties located in smaller markets.. We cannot predict whether our tenants will renew existing leases beyond their current terms. We currently have 31 leases scheduled to expire in 2018 and 32 leases scheduled to expire in 2019, which represent 9.1% and 10.7% of our total annualized lease revenue, respectively, as of December 31, 2017. If any of our leases are not renewed, or are terminated prior to the contractual expiration date, we would attempt to lease those properties to another tenant at then-current market rates. However, following expiration of a lease term or if we exercise our right to replace a tenant in default, rental payments on the related properties could decline or cease altogether while we reposition the properties with a suitable replacement tenant. As such, we may be required to fund certain expenses and obligations (e.g., real estate taxes, debt costs and maintenance expenses) to preserve the value of, and avoid the imposition of liens on, our properties while they are being repositioned. Furthermore, our ability to reposition our properties with a suitable tenant could be significantly delayed or limited by state licensing, receivership, certificate of need, or CON, or other laws, as well as by the Medicare and Medicaid change-of-ownership rules. We could also incur substantial additional expenses in connection with any licensing, receivership or change-of-ownership proceedings. In addition, our ability to locate suitable replacement tenants could be impaired by the specialized healthcare uses or contractual restrictions on use of the properties, and we may be required to spend substantial amounts to adapt the properties to other uses. Any such delays, limitations and expenses could adversely impact our ability to collect rent, obtain. 16. possession of leased properties or otherwise exercise remedies for tenant default and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the market price of our common stock.. All of these risks may be greater in the target submarkets on which we focus, where there may be fewer potential replacement tenants, making it more difficult to replace tenants, especially for specialized space, like hospital or outpatient treatment facilities located in our properties, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the market price of our common stock.. Adverse economic or other conditions in the geographic markets in which we conduct business could negatively affect our occupancy levels and rental rates and have a material adverse effect on our operating results.. Our operating results depend upon our ability to maintain and improve the anticipated occupancy levels and rental rates at our properties. Adverse economic or other conditions in the geographic markets in which we operate, including periods of economic slowdown or recession, industry slowdowns, periods of deflation, relocation of businesses, changing demographics, water pollution, earthquakes and other natural disasters, fires, terrorist acts, civil disturbances or acts of war and other man-made disasters which may result in uninsured or underinsured losses, and changes in tax, real estate, zoning and other laws and regulations, may lower our occupancy levels and limit our ability to increase rents or require us to offer rental concessions. The failure of our properties to generate revenues sufficient to meet our cash requirements, including operating and other expenses, debt service and capital expenditures, may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the market price of our common stock.. A large percentage of our properties are located in Illinois, Ohio, and Florida, and changes in these markets may materially adversely affect us.. Of our investments in 86 properties, the properties located in Illinois, Ohio, and Florida provide, in the aggregate, approximately 36.5% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017. As a result of this geographic concentration, we are particularly exposed to downturns in the economies of those states or other changes in such states' respective real estate market conditions. Any material change in the current payment programs or regulatory, economic, environmental or competitive conditions in these states could have a disproportionate effect on our overall business results. In the event of negative economic or other changes in these markets, our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the market price of our common stock may be materially and adversely affected.. We will rely upon external sources of capital to fund future capital needs, and, if we encounter difficulty in obtaining such capital, we may not be able to make future acquisitions necessary to grow our business or meet maturing obligations.. In order to maintain our status as a REIT under the Code, we are required, among other things, to distribute each year to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gains. In addition, we are subject to income tax at regular corporate rates to the extent we distribute less than 100% of our REIT taxable income, including any net capital gains. Because of this distribution requirement, we will not likely be able to fund all of our future capital needs from cash retained from operations, including capital needed to make investments and to satisfy or refinance maturing obligations. As a result, we expect to rely upon external sources of capital, including debt and equity financing, to fund future capital needs. If we are unable to obtain needed capital on satisfactory terms or at all, we may not be able to make the investments needed to expand our business or to meet our obligations and commitments as they mature. Our access to capital will depend upon a number of factors over which we have little or no control, including general market conditions, the market's perception of our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions and the market price of our common stock. We may not be in a position to take advantage of attractive acquisition opportunities for growth if we are unable to access the capital markets on a timely basis on favorable terms.. 17. We may not be able to control our expenses or our expenses may remain constant or increase, even if our revenue does not increase, which could cause our results of operations to be adversely affected.. There are factors beyond our control that may adversely affect our ability to control our expenses. Certain costs associated with real estate investments (e.g., real estate taxes, debt costs and maintenance expenses) required to preserve the value of the property may not be reduced even if a healthcare related facility is not occupied or other circumstances cause our revenues to decrease. If our expenses increase as a result of any of the foregoing factors, our results of operations may be adversely affected.. Our ability to issue equity to expand our business will depend, in part, upon the market price of our common stock, and our failure to meet market expectations with respect to our business could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and thereby limit our ability to raise capital.. The availability of equity capital to us will depend, in part, upon the market price of our common stock, which, in turn, will depend upon various market conditions and other factors that may change from time to time, including:. • the extent of investor interest in our Company and our assets;. • our ability to satisfy the distribution requirements applicable to REITs;. • the general reputation of REITs and the attractiveness of their equity securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate-based companies;. • our financial performance and that of our tenants;. • analyst reports about us and the REIT industry;. • macroeconomic conditions generally and conditions affecting the healthcare and real estate industry in particular;. • general stock and bond market conditions, including changes in interest rates on fixed income securities, which may lead prospective purchasers of our common stock to demand a higher annual yield from future distributions;. • a failure to maintain or increase our dividend which is dependent, in large part, upon funds from operations, or FFO, which, in turn, depends upon increased revenue from additional acquisitions and rental increases; and. • other factors such as governmental regulatory action and changes in REIT tax laws.. Our failure to meet the market's expectations with regard to future earnings and cash distributions could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock and, as a result, the cost and availability of equity capital to us.. We have now, and may have in the future, exposure to contingent rent escalators, which can hinder our growth and profitability.. We receive a significant portion of our revenues by acquiring and leasing our assets under long-term net leases in which the rental rate is generally fixed with annual fixed rate rental rate escalations or rental rate escalators based upon changes in the Consumer Price Index, or CPI. Properties which we acquire in the future may contain CPI escalators or escalators that are contingent upon our tenant's achievement of specified revenue parameters. If, as a result of weak economic conditions or other factors, the revenues generated by our net leased properties do not meet the specified parameters or CPI does not increase, our growth and profitability will be hindered by these leases.. 18. Our investments in development projects may not yield anticipated returns which could directly affect our operating results and reduce the amount of funds available for distributions.. A component of our growth strategy is exploring development opportunities, some of which may arise through strategic joint ventures. In deciding whether to make an investment in a particular development, we make certain assumptions regarding the expected future performance of that property. To the extent that we consummate development opportunities, our investment in these projects will be subject to the following risks:. • we may be unable to obtain financing for development projects on favorable terms or at all;. • we may not complete development projects on schedule or within budgeted amounts;. • we may encounter delays in obtaining or fail to obtain all necessary zoning, land use, building, occupancy, environmental and other governmental permits and authorizations, or underestimate the costs necessary to develop the property to market standards;. • development or construction delays may provide tenants the right to terminate preconstruction leases or cause us to incur additional costs;. • volatility in the price of construction materials or labor may increase our development costs;. • hospitals or health systems may maintain significant decision-making authority with respect to the development schedule;. • we may incorrectly forecast risks associated with development in new geographic regions;. • tenants may not lease space at the quantity or rental rate levels projected;. • demand for our development project may decrease prior to completion, including due to competition from other developments; and. • lease rates and rents at newly developed properties may fluctuate based on factors beyond our control, including market and economic conditions.. If our investments in development projects do not yield anticipated returns for any reason, including those set forth above, our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and the market price of our common shares may be adversely affected.. Mortgage notes in which we have invested or may invest may be impacted by unfavorable real estate market conditions, which could decrease their value.. If we acquire an investment in a mortgage note, such investment will involve special risks relating to the particular borrower, and we will be at risk of loss on that investment, including losses as a result of a default on the mortgage note. For example, on June 23, 2017, the borrower under our only outstanding mortgage note filed for bankruptcy in the state of Louisiana. The principal balance on this mortgage note was approximately $10.6 million as of June 30, 2017 and there can be no assurance that we will recover the full value of this mortgage note. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more detail on the bankruptcy. These losses may be caused by many conditions beyond our control, including economic conditions affecting real estate values, tenant defaults and lease expirations, interest rate levels, adverse rulings of bankruptcy courts, and the other economic and liability risks associated with real estate. We do not know whether the values of the property securing any of our real estate related investments will remain at the levels existing on the dates we initially make the related investment. If the values of the underlying properties drop, our risk will increase and the values of our interests may decrease.. 19. Delays in liquidating defaulted mortgage note investments could reduce our investment returns.. Delays in liquidating defaulted mortgage note investments could reduce our investment returns. If there are defaults under our mortgage note investments, we may not be able to foreclose on or obtain a suitable remedy with respect to such investments. Specifically, we may not be able to repossess and sell the underlying properties quickly, which could reduce the value of our investment. For example, an action to foreclose on a property securing a mortgage note is regulated by state statutes and rules and is subject to many of the delays and expenses of lawsuits if the defendant raises defenses or counterclaims. Additionally, in the event of default by a mortgagor, these restrictions, among other things, may impede our ability to foreclose on or sell the mortgaged property or to obtain proceeds sufficient to repay all amounts due to us on the mortgage note.. Cybersecurity incidents could disrupt our business and result in the compromise of confidential information.. Our business is at risk from and may be impacted by information security incidents, including attempts to gain unauthorized access to our confidential data, ransomware, malware, and other electronic security events. Such incidents can range from individual attempts to gain unauthorized access to our information technology systems to more sophisticated security threats. They can also result from internal compromises, such as human error or malicious acts. While we employ a number of measures to prevent, detect and mitigate these threats, there is no guarantee such efforts will be successful in preventing a cyber event. Cybersecurity incidents could disrupt our business and compromise confidential information of ours and third parties, including our tenants.. Risks Related to the Healthcare Industry. The healthcare industry is heavily regulated and new laws or regulations, changes to existing laws or regulations, changes to reimbursement models or structure, loss of licensure or failure to obtain licensure could adversely impact our company and result in the inability of our tenants to make rent payments to us.. The healthcare industry is heavily regulated by U.S. federal, state and local governmental authorities. Our tenants generally will be subject to laws and regulations covering, among other things, licensure, certification for participation in government programs, billing for services, breaches of privacy and security of health information and relationships with physicians and other referral sources. In addition, new laws and regulations, changes in existing laws and regulations or changes in the interpretation of such laws or regulations could negatively affect our financial condition and the financial condition of our tenants. These changes, in some cases, could apply retroactively. The enactment, timing or effect of legislative or regulatory changes cannot be predicted.. The Affordable Care Act's passage changed how healthcare services are covered, delivered and reimbursed through expanded coverage of uninsured individuals and reduced Medicare program spending. The law reformed certain aspects of health insurance, expanded existing efforts to tie Medicare and Medicaid payments to performance and quality and contained provisions intended to strengthen fraud and abuse enforcement. In addition, the law now requires skilled nursing facilities and nursing facilities to implement a compliance and ethics program for all employees and agents. The complexities and ramifications of the Affordable Care Act continue to unfold within our industry. Our revenues and financial condition, and those of our tenants, could be impacted by the current law's complexity, lack of implementing regulations or interpretive guidance, gradual implementation and possible additional changes to the law. Further, we are unable to foresee how individuals and businesses will respond to the uncertain landscape or that landscape's effect on the reimbursement rates received by our tenants, the financial success of our tenants and strategic partners, and consequently the effect on us.. The Trump Administration has suggested that it plans to seek to repeal all or portions of the Affordable Care Act and replace the current legislation with new legislation. While the Administration's efforts in 2017 were largely unsuccessful, there is continued uncertainty with respect to the impact the Trump Administration may have, and it could impact coverage and reimbursement for healthcare items and services covered by plans that were authorized by the Affordable Care Act. However, we cannot predict the ultimate content, timing or effect of any further healthcare reform legislation or the impact of potential legislation on us. We expect that additional state and federal healthcare reform measures will be adopted in the future, any of which could limit the amounts that federal and state. 20. governments will pay for healthcare products and services, which could result in reduced demand for medical products once approved or additional pricing pressures, and may adversely affect our operating results.. Many states also regulate the construction of healthcare facilities, the expansion of healthcare facilities, the construction or expansion of certain services, including by way of example specific bed types and medical equipment, as well as certain capital expenditures through CON laws. Under such laws, the applicable state regulatory body must determine a need exists for a project before the project can be undertaken. If one of our tenants seeks to undertake a CON-regulated project, but is not authorized by the applicable regulatory body to proceed with the project, the tenant would be prevented from operating in its intended manner.. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could adversely affect us directly and our tenants' ability to make rent payments to us which may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the market price of our common stock.. Adverse trends in healthcare provider operations may negatively affect our lease revenues and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. The healthcare industry is currently experiencing, among other things:. • changes in the demand for and methods of delivering healthcare services;. • changes in third party reimbursement methods and policies;. • increased attention to compliance with regulations designed to safeguard protected health information and cyber-attacks on entities;. • consolidation and pressure to integrate within the healthcare industry through acquisitions and joint ventures; and. • increased scrutiny of billing, referral and other practices by U.S. federal and state authorities.. These factors may adversely affect the economic performance of some or all of our tenants and, in turn, our lease revenues, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the market price of our common stock.. Reductions in reimbursement from third-party payers, including Medicare and Medicaid, could adversely affect the profitability of our tenants and hinder their ability to make rent payments to us or renew their lease.. Sources of revenue for our tenants typically include Medicare, Medicaid, private insurance payers and health maintenance organizations. Healthcare providers continue to face increased government and private payer pressure to control or reduce healthcare costs and significant reductions in healthcare reimbursement, including reduced reimbursements and changes to payment methodologies under the Affordable Care Act. In some cases, private insurers rely upon all or portions of the Medicare payment systems to determine payment rates which may result in decreased reimbursement from private insurers. The Affordable Care Act will likely increase enrollment in plans offered by private insurers who choose to participate in state-run exchanges, but the Affordable Care Act also imposes new requirements for the health insurance industry, including prohibitions upon excluding individuals based upon pre-existing conditions which may increase private insurer costs and, thereby, cause private insurers to reduce their payment rates to providers.. Efforts by payers to reduce healthcare costs will likely continue which may result in reductions or slower growth in reimbursement for certain services provided by some of our tenants. A reduction in reimbursements to our tenants from third-party payers for any reason could adversely affect our tenants' ability to make rent payments to us which may have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the market price of our common stock.. 21. Our tenants and our Company are subject to fraud and abuse laws, the violation of which by a tenant may jeopardize the tenant's ability to make rent payments to us.. There are various federal and state laws prohibiting fraudulent and abusive business practices by healthcare providers who participate in, receive payments from or are in a position to make referrals in connection with government-sponsored healthcare programs, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Our lease arrangements with certain tenants may also be subject to these fraud and abuse laws.. These laws include without limitation:. • the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, the offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for, or to induce, the referral of any federal or state healthcare program patients;. • the Stark Law, which, subject to specific exceptions, restricts physicians who have financial relationships with healthcare providers from making referrals for designated health services for which payment may be made under Medicare or Medicaid programs to an entity with which the physician, or an immediate family member, has a financial relationship;. • the federal False Claims Act, which prohibits any person from knowingly presenting false or fraudulent claims for payment to the federal government, including under the Medicare and Medicaid programs;. • the federal Civil Monetary Penalties Law, which authorizes HHS to impose monetary penalties for certain fraudulent acts; and. • state anti-kickback, anti-inducement, anti-referral and insurance fraud laws which may be generally similar to, and potentially more expansive than, the federal laws set forth above.. Other laws that impact how our tenants conduct their operations include: state and local licensure laws; laws protecting consumers against deceptive practices; laws generally affecting our tenants' management of property and equipment and how our tenants generally conduct their operations, such as fire, health and safety and environmental laws (including medical waste disposal); federal and state laws affecting assisted living facilities mandating quality of services and care, mandatory reporting requirements regarding the quality of care and quality of food service; resident rights (including abuse and neglect laws); and health standards set by the federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration.. Violations of these laws may result in criminal and/or civil penalties that range from punitive sanctions, damage assessments, penalties, imprisonment, denial of Medicare and Medicaid payments and/or exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. In addition, the Affordable Care Act clarifies that the submission of claims for items or services generated in violation of the Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim under the False Claims Act. The federal government has taken the position, and some courts have held that violations of other laws, such as the Stark Law, can also be a violation of the False Claims Act. Additionally, certain laws, such as the False Claims Act, allow for individuals to bring whistleblower actions on behalf of the government for violations thereof. Imposition of any of these penalties upon one of our tenants or strategic partners could jeopardize that tenant's ability to operate or to make rent payments or affect the level of occupancy in our healthcare properties, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the market price of our common stock. Further, we enter into leases and other financial relationships with healthcare delivery systems that are subject to or impacted by these laws.. 22. Our tenants may be subject to compliance issues and cyber-attack associated with the protection of personal information.. Breaches of personal information can result from deliberate attacks or unintentional events. More recently, there has been an increased level of attention focused on cyber-attacks focused on healthcare providers because of the vast amount of personally identifiable information they possess. Most healthcare providers, including all who accept Medicare and Medicaid, must comply with the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, or HIPAA, regulations regarding the privacy and security of protected health information. States also maintain laws focused in this area. The HIPAA regulations impose extensive administrative requirements on our tenants with regard to how such protected health information may be used and disclosed. Further, the regulations include extensive and complex regulations which require providers to establish reasonable and appropriate administrative, technical and physical safeguards to ensure the confidentiality, integrity and availability of protected health information maintained in electronic format. Providers are obligated under HIPAA and State law to notify individuals and the government if personal information is compromised. In addition to federal regulators, state attorneys' general are also enforcing information security breaches. Our tenants must safeguard protected health information against reasonably anticipated threats or hazards to the information. HITECH directs the Secretary of HHS to provide for periodic audits to ensure covered entities (and their business associates, as that term is defined under HIPAA) comply with the applicable HIPAA requirements, increasing the likelihood that a HIPAA violation will result in an enforcement action.. Violations of these various privacy and security laws can result in significant civil monetary penalties, as well as the potential for criminal penalties. In addition to state data breach notification requirements, HIPAA authorizes state attorneys general to bring civil actions on behalf of affected state residents against entities that violate HIPAA privacy and security regulations. These penalties could be in addition to any penalties assessed by a state for a breach which would be considered reportable under the state's data breach notification laws. Further there are significant costs associated with a breach including investigation costs, remediation and mitigation costs, notification costs, attorney fees and the potential for reputational harm and lost revenues due to a loss in confidence in the provider. Plaintiff attorneys are increasingly developing class action litigation strategies designed to obtain settlements from healthcare providers. We cannot predict the effect of additional costs on tenants to comply with these laws nor the costs associated with a potential breach of protected health information by a tenant and what effect they might have on the expenses of our tenants and their ability to meet their obligations to us, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders and the market price of our common stock.. Our healthcare-related tenants may be subject to significant legal actions that could subject them to increased operating costs and substantial uninsured liabilities, which may affect their ability to pay their rent payments to us, and we could be subject to healthcare industry violations.. As is typical in the healthcare industry, our tenants may often become subject to claims that their services have resulted in patient injury or other adverse effects. Many of these tenants may have experienced an increasing trend in the frequency and severity of professional liability and general liability insurance claims and litigation asserted against them. The insurance coverage maintained by these tenants may not cover all claims made against them nor continue to be available at a reasonable cost, if at all. In some states, insurance coverage for the risk of punitive damages arising from professional liability and general liability claims and/or litigation may not, in certain cases, be available to these tenants due to state law prohibitions or limitations of availability. As a result, these types of tenants of our healthcare properties and healthcare-related facilities operating in these states may be liable for punitive damage awards that are either not covered or are in excess of their insurance policy limits.. We also believe that there has been, and will continue to be, an increase in governmental investigations of certain healthcare providers, particularly in the areas of Medicare/Medicaid false claims and meaningful-use of electronic health records, as well as an increase in enforcement actions resulting from these investigations. Insurance is not available to cover such losses. Any adverse determination in a legal proceeding or governmental investigation, any settlements of such proceedings or investigations in excess of insurance coverage, whether currently asserted or arising in the future, could have a material adverse effect on a tenant's financial condition. If a tenant is unable to. 23. obtain or maintain insurance coverage, if judgments are obtained or settlements reached in excess of the insurance coverage, if a tenant is required to pay uninsured punitive damages, or if a tenant is subject to an uninsurable government enforcement action or investigation, the tenant could be exposed to substantial additional liabilities, which may affect the tenant's ability to pay rent, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders and the market price of our common stock.. Risks Related to the Real Estate Industry. Illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties.. Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, our ability to promptly sell one or more of our properties in response to changing economic, financial and investment conditions is limited. The real estate market is affected by many factors, such as general economic conditions, availability of financing, interest rates and other factors, including supply and demand, that are beyond our control. In the event we decide to sell any of our properties, we cannot predict whether we will be able to sell such properties for the price or on the terms set by us or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. We also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of any of our properties. The fact that we own properties in our target submarkets may lengthen the time required to sell our properties. We may be required to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a property can be sold. We cannot assure you that we will have funds available to correct those defects or to make those improvements.. In acquiring a property, we may agree to transfer restrictions that materially restrict us from selling that property for a period of time or impose other restrictions, such as a limitation on the amount of debt that can be placed or repaid on that property. These transfer restrictions would impede our ability to sell a property even if we deem it necessary or appropriate. These facts and any others that would impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the market price of our common stock.. Moreover, the Code imposes restrictions on a REIT's ability to dispose of properties that are not applicable to other types of real estate companies. In particular, the tax laws applicable to REITs require that we hold our properties for investment, rather than primarily for sale in the ordinary course of business, which may cause us to forego or defer sales of properties that otherwise would be in our best interests. Therefore, we may not be able to vary our portfolio promptly in response to economic or other conditions or on favorable terms, which may adversely affect our cash flows, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the market price of our common stock.. Uncertain market conditions could cause us to sell our healthcare properties at a loss in the future.. We intend to hold our various real estate investments until such time as we determine that a sale or other disposition appears to be advantageous to achieve our investment objectives. Our senior management team and our board of directors may exercise their discretion as to whether and when to sell one of our healthcare properties, and we will have no obligation to sell our buildings at any particular time. We generally intend to hold our healthcare properties for an extended period of time, and we cannot predict with any certainty the various market conditions affecting real estate investments that will exist at any particular time in the future. Because of the uncertainty of market conditions that may affect the future disposition of our healthcare properties, we may not be able to sell our buildings at a profit in the future or at all. We may incur prepayment penalties in the event that we sell a property subject to a mortgage earlier than we otherwise had planned. Additionally, we could be forced to sell healthcare properties at inopportune times which could result in us selling the affected building at a substantial loss. Accordingly, the extent to which you will receive cash distributions and realize potential appreciation on our real estate investments will, among other things, be dependent upon fluctuating market conditions. Because of the uncertainty of market conditions that may affect the future disposition of our properties, and the potential payment of prepayment penalties upon such disposition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to sell our properties at a profit in the future, which could. 24. materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. Uninsured losses relating to real property may adversely affect your returns.. We evaluate our insurance coverage annually in light of current industry practice through an analysis prepared by outside consultants and attempt to ensure that all of our properties are adequately insured to cover casualty losses. However, there are certain losses, including losses from floods, earthquakes, wildfires, acts of war, acts of terrorism or riots, that are not generally insured against or that are not generally fully insured against because it is not deemed economically feasible or prudent to do so. In addition, changes in the cost or availability of insurance could expose us to uninsured casualty losses. In the event that any of our properties incurs a casualty loss that is not fully covered by insurance, the value of our assets will be reduced by the amount of any such uninsured loss, and we could experience a significant loss of capital invested and potential revenue in these properties and could potentially remain obligated under any recourse debt associated with the property. In addition, we may have no source of funding to repair or reconstruct the damaged property, and we cannot assure you that any such sources of funding will be available to us for such purposes in the future. Furthermore, we, as the general partner of our operating partnership, generally will be liable for all of our operating partnership's unsatisfied recourse obligations. Any such losses could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to pay distributions, and the market price of our common stock.. Our property taxes could increase due to property tax rate changes or reassessments, which could materially adversely impact our cash flows.. Even if we qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we will be required to pay some state and local taxes on our properties. The real property taxes on our properties may increase as property tax rates change or as our properties are assessed or reassessed by taxing authorities. The amount of property taxes we pay in the future may increase substantially from what we have paid in the past. If the property taxes we pay increase, our cash flow would be adversely impacted to the extent that we are not reimbursed by tenants for those taxes, and our ability to pay any expected dividends to our stockholders could be materially adversely affected.. Our properties may contain or develop harmful mold or suffer from other air quality issues, which could lead to liability for adverse health effects and costs of remediation.. When excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials, mold growth may occur, particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of time. Some molds may produce airborne toxins or irritants. Indoor air quality issues can also stem from inadequate ventilation, chemical contamination from indoor or outdoor sources, and other biological contaminants such as pollen, viruses and bacteria. Indoor exposure to airborne toxins or irritants above certain levels can be alleged to cause a variety of adverse health effects and symptoms, including allergic or other reactions. As a result, the presence of significant mold or other airborne contaminants at any of our properties could require us to undertake a costly remediation program to contain or remove the mold or other airborne contaminants from the affected property or increase indoor ventilation. In addition, the presence of significant mold or other airborne contaminants could expose us to liability from our tenants, employees of our tenants or others if property damage or personal injury is alleged to have occurred.. We may incur significant costs complying with various federal, state and local laws, regulations and covenants that are applicable to our properties.. The properties in our portfolio are subject to various covenants and federal, state and local laws and regulatory requirements, including permitting and licensing requirements. Local regulations, including municipal or local ordinances and zoning restrictions may restrict our use of our properties and may require us to obtain approval from local officials or restrict our use of our properties and may require us to obtain approval from local officials of community standards organizations at any time with respect to our properties, including prior to acquiring a property or when undertaking renovations of any of our properties. Among other things, these restrictions may relate to fire. 25. and safety, seismic or hazardous material abatement requirements. There can be no assurance that existing laws and regulatory policies will not adversely affect us or the timing or cost of any future acquisitions or renovations, or that additional regulations will not be adopted that increase such delays or result in additional costs. Our growth strategy may be adversely affected by our ability to obtain permits, licenses and zoning relief. Our failure to obtain such permits, licenses and zoning relief or to comply with applicable laws could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and our ability to pay distributions, and the market price of our common stock.. In addition, federal and state laws and regulations, including laws such as the Americans with Disabilities Act, or ADA, and the Fair Housing Amendment Act of 1988, or FHAA, impose further restrictions on our properties and operations. Under the ADA and the FHAA, all public accommodations must meet federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. Some of our properties may currently be in non-compliance with the ADA or the FHAA. If one or more of our properties is not in compliance with the ADA, the FHAA or any other regulatory requirements, we may be required to incur additional costs to bring the property into compliance, including the removal of access barriers, and we might incur governmental fines or the award of damages to private litigants. In addition, we do not know whether existing requirements will change or whether future requirements will require us to make significant unanticipated expenditures that will adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and our ability to pay distributions, and the market price of our common stock.. Environmental compliance costs and liabilities associated with owning and leasing our properties may affect our results of operations.. Under various U.S. federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, current and prior owners and tenants of real estate may be jointly and severally liable for the costs of investigating, remediating and monitoring certain hazardous substances or other regulated materials on or in such property. In addition to these costs, the past or present owner or tenant of a property from which a release emanates could be liable for any personal injury or property damage that results from such release, including for the unauthorized release of asbestos-containing materials and other hazardous substances into the air, as well as any damages to natural resources or the environment that arise from such release. These environmental laws often impose such liability without regard to whether the current or prior owner or tenant knew of, or was responsible for, the presence or release of such substances or materials. Moreover, the release of hazardous substances or materials, or the failure to properly remediate such substances or materials, may adversely affect the owner's or tenant's ability to lease, sell, develop or rent such property or to borrow by using such property as collateral. Persons who transport or arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous substances or other regulated materials may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of such substances at a disposal or treatment facility, regardless of whether or not such facility is owned or operated by such person.. We perform a Phase I environmental site assessment at any property we are considering acquiring. However, Phase I environmental site assessments are limited in scope and do not involve sampling of soil, soil vapor, or groundwater, and these assessments may not include or identify all potential environmental liabilities or risks associated with the property. Even where subsurface investigation is performed, it can be very difficult to ascertain the full extent of environmental contamination or the costs that are likely to flow from such contamination. We cannot assure you that the Phase I environmental site assessment or other environmental studies identified all potential environmental liabilities, or that we will not face significant remediation costs or other environmental contamination that makes it difficult to sell any affected properties. As a result, we could potentially incur material liability for these issues, which could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to pay distributions, and the market price of our common stock.. Certain environmental laws impose compliance obligations on owners and tenants of real property with respect to the management of hazardous substances and other regulated materials. For example, environmental laws govern the management and removal of asbestos-containing materials and lead-based paint. Failure to comply with these laws can result in penalties or other sanctions. If we incur substantial costs to comply with these environmental laws or we are held liable under these laws, our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected.. 26. Some of the properties we acquire in the future may be subject to ground lease or other restrictions on the use of the space. If we are required to undertake significant capital expenditures to procure new tenants, then our business and results of operations may suffer.. Properties we acquire in the future may be subject to ground leases that contain certain restrictions. These restrictions could include limits on our ability to re-let these properties to tenants not affiliated with the healthcare provider or other owner that owns the underlying property, rights of purchase and rights of first offer and refusal with respect to sales of the property and limits on the types of medical procedures that may be performed. If we are unable to promptly re-let our properties, if the rates upon such re-letting are significantly lower than expected or if we are required to undertake significant capital expenditures in connection with re-letting, our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected.. Our assets may be subject to impairment charges.. We will periodically evaluate our real estate investments and other assets for impairment indicators. The judgment regarding the existence of impairment indicators is based upon factors such as market conditions, tenant performance and legal structure. For example, the termination of a lease by a major tenant may lead to an impairment charge. If we determine that an impairment has occurred, we would be required to make an adjustment to the net carrying value of the asset which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the impairment charge is recorded.. Risks Related to our Corporate Structure and the Acquisition of Properties. Conflicts of interest could arise in the future between the interests of our stockholders and the interests of holders of OP units, which may impede business decisions that could benefit our stockholders.. Conflicts of interest could arise in the future as a result of the relationships between us and our affiliates, on the one hand, and our operating partnership or any limited partner thereof, on the other. Our directors and officers have duties to our company under Maryland law in connection with the management of our company. At the same time, we, as the general partner of our operating partnership, have fiduciary duties and obligations to our operating partnership and its limited partners, if any, under Delaware law and our partnership agreement in connection with the management of our operating partnership. Our fiduciary duties and obligations as the general partner of our operating partnership may come into conflict with the duties of our directors and officers to our company. There are currently no limited partners of our operating partnership other than a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company.. Under Delaware law, a general partner of a Delaware limited partnership has fiduciary duties of loyalty and care to the partnership and its limited partners and must discharge its duties and exercise its rights as general partner consistent with the obligation of good faith and fair dealing. Our partnership agreement provides that, in the event of a conflict between the interests of our operating partnership or any limited partner, on the one hand, and the company or our stockholders, on the other hand, we, as the general partner of our operating partnership, may give priority to the separate interests of the company or our stockholders (including with respect to tax consequences). Further, any action or failure to act on our part or on the part of our directors that gives priority to the interests of the company or our stockholders and does not result in a violation of our partnership agreement does not violate the duty of loyalty or any other duty that we, in our capacity as the general partner of our operating partnership, owe to our operating partnership and its limited partners or violate the obligation of good faith and fair dealing.. Additionally, our partnership agreement provides that we generally will not be liable to our operating partnership or any limited partner for any action or omission taken in our capacity as general partner, for the debts or liabilities of our operating partnership or for the obligations of our operating partnership under the partnership agreement, except for liability for our fraud, willful misconduct or gross negligence, pursuant to any express indemnity we may give to our operating partnership or in connection with a redemption. Our operating partnership must indemnify us, our directors and officers, officers of our operating partnership and our designees from and against any and all claims. 27. that relate to the operations of our operating partnership, unless (1) an act or omission of the person was material to the matter giving rise to the action and either was committed in bad faith or was the result of active and deliberate dishonesty, (2) the person actually received an improper personal benefit in violation or breach of the partnership agreement or (3) in the case of a criminal proceeding, the indemnified person had reasonable cause to believe that the act or omission was unlawful. Our operating partnership must also pay or reimburse the reasonable expenses of any such person in advance of a final disposition of the proceeding upon its receipt of a written affirmation of the person's good faith belief that the standard of conduct necessary for indemnification has been met and a written undertaking to repay any amounts paid or advanced if it is ultimately determined that the person did not meet the standard of conduct for indemnification.. We qualify as an emerging growth company under the JOBS Act and the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies could make shares of our common stock less attractive to investors.. We qualify as an emerging growth company as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act. The JOBS Act contains provisions that, among other things, relax certain reporting requirements for emerging growth companies, including certain requirements relating to accounting standards and compensation disclosure. For as long as we are an emerging growth company, which may be up to five full fiscal years, we may take advantage of exemptions from various reporting and other requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies, including the requirements to:. • provide an auditor's attestation report on management's assessment of the effectiveness of our system of internal control over financial reporting pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act;. • comply with any new or revised financial accounting standards applicable to public companies until such standards are also applicable to private companies (we have irrevocably elected not to avail ourselves of this exemption);. • comply with any new audit rules or requirements adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or the PCAOB, after April 5, 2012 unless the SEC determines otherwise, including requiring mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditor's report in which the auditor would be required to provide additional information about the audit and our financial statements;. • provide certain disclosure regarding executive compensation required of larger public companies; or. • hold stockholder advisory votes on executive compensation.. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive because we will not be subject to the same reporting and other requirements as other public companies. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and the per share market price of our common stock could decline and may be more volatile.. As a result of becoming a public company, after we are no longer an emerging growth company, we will be subject to the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and will be obligated to obtain an audit opinion on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. These internal controls may not be determined to be effective, which may harm investor confidence and, as a result, the trading price of our common stock.. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act will require our auditors to deliver an attestation report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in conjunction with their opinion on our audited financial statements after we are no longer an emerging growth company. Substantial work on our part is required to implement appropriate processes, document the system of internal control over key processes, assess their design, remediate any deficiencies identified and test their operation. This process is expected to be both costly and challenging. We cannot give any assurances that material weaknesses will not be identified in the future in connection with our compliance with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The existence of any material weakness would preclude a conclusion by. 28. management and our independent auditors that we maintained effective internal control over financial reporting. Our management may be required to devote significant time and expense to remediate any material weaknesses that may be discovered and may not be able to remediate any material weakness in a timely manner. The existence of any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting could also result in errors in our financial statements that could require us to restate our financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, all of which could lead to a decline in the market price of our common stock.. We incurred costs as a result of becoming a public company, and such costs may increase if and when we cease to be an emerging growth company.. As a public company, we now incur significant legal, accounting, insurance and other expenses, including costs associated with public company reporting requirements. The expenses incurred by public companies for reporting and corporate governance purposes have generally been increasing. We expect compliance with these public reporting requirements and associated rules and regulations to increase expenses, particularly after we are no longer an emerging growth company, although we are currently unable to estimate these costs with any degree of certainty. We could be an emerging growth company for up to five years, although circumstances could cause us to lose that status earlier, which could result in our incurring additional costs applicable to public companies that are not emerging growth companies.. We may have assumed unknown liabilities in connection with our acquisitions which could result in unexpected liabilities and expenses.. As part of our acquisitions, we (through our operating partnership) received certain assets or interests in certain assets subject to existing liabilities, some of which may be unknown to us. Unknown liabilities might include liabilities for cleanup or remediation of undisclosed environmental conditions, claims of tenants, vendors or other persons dealing with the entities prior to this report (including those that had not been asserted or threatened prior to this report), tax liabilities, and accrued but unpaid liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business. Our recourse with respect to such liabilities may be limited. Depending upon the amount or nature of such liabilities, our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and the market price of our shares may be adversely affected.. Required payments of principal and interest on our credit facility may leave us with insufficient cash to operate our properties or to pay the distributions currently contemplated or necessary to qualify as a REIT and may expose us to the risk of default under our debt obligations.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $94.0 million in debt outstanding under our Credit Facility, including our term loans. We do not anticipate that our internally generated cash flow will be adequate to repay our anticipated indebtedness upon maturity and, therefore, we expect to repay indebtedness through refinancings and future offerings of equity and debt securities, either of which we may be unable to secure on favorable terms or at all. Our level of debt and any limitations imposed upon us by our debt agreements could have adverse consequences, including the following:. • our cash flow may be insufficient to meet required principal and interest payments;. • we may be unable to borrow additional funds as needed or on favorable terms, including to make acquisitions;. • we may be unable to refinance indebtedness at maturity or the refinancing terms may be less favorable than the terms of the original indebtedness;. • because a portion of our debt bears interest at variable rates, an increase in interest rates could materially increase our interest expense;. 29. • we may fail to effectively hedge against interest rate volatility;. • we may be forced to dispose of properties, possibly on disadvantageous terms if we are able to do so at all, in order to repay indebtedness;. • after debt service, the amount available for distributions to our stockholders may be reduced;. • we may default on our debt obligations, which could restrict our ability to make any distributions to our stockholders;. • our ability to make distributions to our stockholders could be restricted by our debt agreements;. • our leverage could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who have less debt;. • we may experience increased vulnerability to economic and industry downturns, reducing our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions;. • we may default on our obligations and the lenders may foreclose on properties that secure their loans and receive an assignment of rents and leases;. • we may violate financial covenants, which would cause a default on our obligations and result in the acceleration of our payment obligations;. • we may inadvertently violate non-financial restrictive covenants in our loan documents, such as covenants that require us to maintain the existence of entities, maintain insurance policies and provide financial statements, which would entitle the lenders to accelerate our debt obligations; and. • our default under any loan with cross-default or cross-collateralization provisions could result in default on other indebtedness or result in the foreclosures of other properties.. The realization of any or all of these risks may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the market price of our common stock.. We could become highly leveraged in the future because our organizational documents contain no limitations on the amount of debt that we may incur.. As of December 31, 2017, our indebtedness represented approximately 24.2% of our total assets. Our current financing policy prohibits incurring debt (secured or unsecured) in excess of 40% of our total book capitalization. However, this debt limitation policy can be changed by our board of directors without stockholder approval and there are no provisions in our bylaws that limit our ability to incur indebtedness. We could alter the balance between our total outstanding indebtedness and the value of our properties at any time. If we become more highly leveraged, the resulting increase in outstanding debt could adversely affect our ability to make debt service payments, to pay our anticipated distributions and to make the distributions required to qualify as a REIT. The occurrence of any of the foregoing risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the market price of our common stock.. Increases in interest rates may increase our interest expense and adversely affect our cash flows and our ability to service our indebtedness and to make distributions to our shareholders.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $34 million of variable-rate indebtedness outstanding that has not been swapped for a fixed interest rate and we expect that more of our indebtedness in the future, including borrowings under our Credit Facility, some of which may be subject to variable interest rates. Increases in interest rates on any variable. 30. rate indebtedness will increase our interest expense, which could adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to pay distributions.. The Company may enter into swap agreements from time to time that may not effectively reduce its exposure to changes in interest rates.. The Company may enter into swap agreements from time to time that may not effectively reduce its exposure to changes in interest rates. The Company entered into two swap agreements during 2017 and may enter into such agreements in the future to manage some of its exposure to interest rate volatility. These swap agreements involve risks, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements. In addition, these arrangements may not be effective in reducing the Company's exposure to changes in interest rates. In addition, we may be limited in the type and amount of hedging transactions that we may use in the future by our need to satisfy the REIT income tests under the Code. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and the market price of our common shares.. Our use of OP units in our operating partnership as currency to acquire properties could result in stockholder dilution and/or limit our ability to sell such properties, which could have a material adverse effect on us.. In the future, we may acquire properties or portfolios of properties through tax deferred contribution transactions in exchange for OP units in our operating partnership, which may result in stockholder dilution. This acquisition structure may have the effect of, among other things, reducing the amount of tax depreciation we could deduct over the tax life of the acquired properties, and may require that we agree to protect the contributors' ability to defer recognition of taxable gain through restrictions on our ability to dispose of the acquired properties or the allocation of partnership debt to the contributors to maintain their tax bases. These restrictions could limit our ability to sell properties at a time, or on terms, that would be favorable absent such restrictions.. Our charter restricts the ownership and transfer of our outstanding shares which may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or change of control of our Company.. In order for us to maintain our status as a REIT, no more than 50% of the value of our outstanding shares may be owned, beneficially or constructively, by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of each taxable year other than our initial REIT taxable year. Subject to certain exceptions, our charter prohibits any stockholder from beneficially or constructively owning more than 9.8% of the outstanding shares of our capital stock, in value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive. The constructive ownership rules under the Code are complex and may cause the outstanding shares owned by a group of related individuals or entities to be deemed to be constructively owned by one individual or entity. As a result, the acquisition of less than 9.8% of our outstanding shares or of our common stock by an individual or entity could cause that individual or entity to own constructively more than 9.8% of the outstanding shares of such stock and to be subject to our charter's ownership limit. Our charter also prohibits, among other prohibitions, any person from owning our shares that would result in our being \"closely held\" under Section 856(h) of the Code or otherwise cause us to fail to qualify as a REIT. Any attempt to own or transfer shares in violation of these restrictions may result in the shares being automatically transferred to a charitable trust or may be void.. Certain provisions of Maryland law could inhibit changes of control, which may discourage third parties from conducting a tender offer or seeking other change of control transactions that could involve a premium price for our common stock or that our stockholders otherwise believe to be in their best interests.. Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law, or MGCL, applicable to Maryland corporations may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or of impeding a change of control under circumstances that otherwise could provide our common stockholders with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our shares, including:. 31. • \"business combination\" provisions that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between us and an \"interested stockholder\" (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our shares or an affiliate or associate of ours who was the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of 10% or more of the voting power of our shares at any time within the two-year period immediately prior to the date in question) or an affiliate thereof for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, and thereafter imposes certain minimum price and/or supermajority stockholder voting requirements on these combinations; and. • \"control share\" provisions that provide that holders of \"control shares\" of our company (defined as shares that, when aggregated with all other shares controlled by the stockholder, entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a \"control share acquisition\" (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of issued and outstanding \"control shares,\" subject to certain exceptions) have no voting rights with respect to their control shares, except to the extent approved by our stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares.. Our bylaws, however, contain provisions exempting us from the business combination and control share acquisition provisions of the MGCL and we will not be permitted to opt into either of these provisions in the future without the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes cast on the matter by stockholders entitled to vote. Our board of directors may not amend or eliminate either of these provisions at any time in the future without the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes cast on the matter by stockholders entitled to vote.. Certain provisions of the MGCL permit our board of directors, without stockholder approval and regardless of what is currently provided in our charter or bylaws, to implement certain corporate governance provisions, some of which are not currently applicable to us. If implemented, these provisions may have the effect of limiting or precluding a third party from making an unsolicited acquisition proposal for us or of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us under circumstances that otherwise could provide our common stockholders with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then current market price. Our charter contains a provision whereby the Company has elected to not be subject to the provisions of Title 3, Subtitle 8 of the MGCL without the affirmative consent of the shares cast on the matter by stockholders entitled to vote.. We could increase the number of authorized shares, classify and reclassify unissued shares and issue shares without stockholder approval.. Our board of directors, without stockholder approval, has the power under our charter to amend our charter to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares or the number of shares of any class or series that we are authorized to issue, and to authorize us to issue authorized but unissued common stock or preferred stock. In addition, under our charter, our board of directors has the power to classify or reclassify any unissued common or preferred shares into one or more classes or series of shares and set or change the preference, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends and other distributions, qualifications or terms or conditions of redemption for such newly classified or reclassified shares. As a result, we may issue series or classes of common stock or preferred stock with preferences, dividends, powers and rights, voting or otherwise, that are senior to, or otherwise conflict with, the rights of holders of our common stock. Although our board of directors has no such intention at the present time, it could establish a class or series of preferred shares that could, depending on the terms of such class or series, delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or that our stockholders otherwise believe to be in their best interests.. Certain provisions in the partnership agreement of our operating partnership may delay or prevent unsolicited acquisitions of us.. Provisions of the partnership agreement of our operating partnership may delay or make more difficult unsolicited acquisitions of us or changes of our control. These provisions could discourage third parties from making proposals. 32. involving an unsolicited acquisition of us or change of our control, although some stockholders or limited partners might consider such proposals, if made, desirable. These provisions include, among others:. • redemption rights of qualifying parties;. • a requirement that we may not be removed as the general partner of our operating partnership without our consent;. • transfer restrictions on OP units; and. • our ability, as general partner, in some cases, to amend the partnership agreement and to cause our operating partnership to issue additional partnership interests with terms that could delay, defer or prevent a merger or other change of control of us or our operating partnership without the consent of our stockholders or the limited partners.. Our charter and bylaws, the partnership agreement of our operating partnership and Maryland law also contain other provisions that may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or that our stockholders otherwise believe to be in their best interest.. We may change our business, investment and financing strategies without stockholder approval.. We may change our business, investment and financing strategies without a vote of, or notice to, our stockholders, which could result in our making investments and engaging in business activities that are different from, and possibly riskier than, the investments and businesses described in this report. In particular, a change in our investment strategy, including the manner in which we allocate our resources across our portfolio or the types of assets in which we seek to invest, may increase our exposure to real estate market fluctuations. In addition, we may in the future increase the use of leverage at times and in amounts that we, in our discretion, deem prudent and such decision would not be subject to stockholder approval. Furthermore, our board of directors may determine that healthcare properties do not offer the potential for attractive risk-adjusted returns for an investment strategy. Changes to our strategies with regards to the foregoing could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. Our rights and the rights of our stockholders to take action against our directors and officers are limited, which could limit your recourse in the event that we take certain actions which are not in your best interests.. Our charter eliminates the liability of our directors and officers to us and our stockholders for money damages, except for liability resulting from:. • actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or. • active and deliberate dishonesty by the director or officer that was established by a final judgment as being material to the cause of action adjudicated.. Our charter authorizes us to indemnify our present and former directors and officers for actions taken by them in those and other capacities to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland present and former law. Our bylaws obligate us to indemnify each present and former director or officer, to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law, in the defense of any proceeding to which he or she is made, or threatened to be made, a party by reason of his or her service to us. In addition, we may be obligated to advance the defense costs incurred by our director and officers. We have entered into indemnification agreements with our officers and intend to enter into indemnification agreements with our directors, granting them express indemnification rights. As a result, we and our stockholders may have more limited rights against our directors and officers than might otherwise exist absent the current provisions in our charter, bylaws and indemnification agreements or that might exist with other companies.. 33. Our charter contains provisions that make removal of our directors difficult, which could make it difficult for our stockholders to effect changes to our management and may prevent a change in control of our company that is in the best interests of our stockholders. Our charter provides that a director may only be removed for cause upon the affirmative vote of holders of two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast generally in the election of directors. Vacancies may be filled only by a majority of the remaining directors in office, even if less than a quorum. These requirements make it more difficult to change our management by removing and replacing directors and may prevent a change in control of our company that is in the best interests of our stockholders.. We are a holding company with no direct operations and, as such, we will rely on funds received from our operating partnership to pay liabilities, and the interests of our stockholders will be structurally subordinated to all liabilities and obligations of our operating partnership and its subsidiaries.. We are a holding company and conduct substantially all of our operations through our operating partnership. We do not have, apart from an interest in our operating partnership, any independent operations. As a result, we will rely on distributions from our operating partnership to pay any dividends we might declare on shares of our common stock. We will also rely on distributions from our operating partnership to meet any of our obligations, including any tax liability on taxable income allocated to us from our operating partnership. In addition, because we are a holding company, your claims as stockholders will be structurally subordinated to all existing and future liabilities and obligations (whether or not for borrowed money) of our operating partnership and its subsidiaries. Therefore, in the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization, our assets and those of our operating partnership and its subsidiaries will be available to satisfy the claims of our stockholders only after all of our and our operating partnership's and its subsidiaries' liabilities and obligations have been paid in full.. Our operating partnership may issue additional OP units to third parties without the consent of our stockholders, which would reduce our ownership percentage in our operating partnership and would have a dilutive effect on the amount of distributions made to us by our operating partnership and, therefore, the amount of distributions we can make to our stockholders.. We own 100% of the outstanding OP units and we may, in connection with our acquisition of properties or otherwise, cause our operating partnership to issue additional OP units to third parties. Such issuances would reduce our ownership percentage in our operating partnership and affect the amount of distributions made to us by our operating partnership and, therefore, the amount of distributions we can make to our stockholders. Because you will not directly own OP units, you will not have any voting rights with respect to any such issuances or other partnership level activities of our operating partnership.. Risks Related to Our Qualification and Operation as a REIT. Failure to remain qualified as a REIT, would cause us to be taxed as a regular corporation, which would adversely affect the value of our shares and substantially reduce funds available for distributions to our stockholders.. Our organization and proposed method of operation have enabled us to meet the requirements for qualification and taxation as a REIT commencing with our taxable year ended December 31, 2015. However, we cannot assure you that we will remain qualified as a REIT. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. The complexity of these provisions and of the applicable Treasury regulations that have been promulgated under the Code, or the Treasury Regulations, is greater in the case of a REIT that, like us, holds its assets through a partnership. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to qualify as a REIT. In order to qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy a number of requirements, including requirements regarding the ownership of our stock, the composition of our assets and the composition of our income. In addition, we must distribute to stockholders annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding net capital gains. Legislation, new Treasury Regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may materially and adversely affect our ability to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. 34. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we will face serious tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available for distribution to our stockholders because:. • we would not be allowed a deduction for dividends paid to stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates;. • we could be subject to increased state and local taxes; and. • unless we are entitled to relief under certain U.S. federal income tax laws, we could not re-elect REIT status until the fifth calendar year after the year in which we failed to qualify as a REIT.. In addition, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, we will no longer be required to make distributions. As a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital, and it would adversely affect the market price of our common shares.. If our operating partnership failed to qualify as a \"partnership\" for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would cease to qualify as a REIT and suffer other adverse consequences.. We believe that our operating partnership should be treated either as an entity disregarded from us or, after the admission of additional partners, if any, as a \"partnership\" for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a disregarded entity or a partnership, our operating partnership will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax on its income. Instead, each of its partners will be allocated, and may be required to pay tax with respect to, its share of our operating partnership's income. We cannot assure you that the IRS will not challenge the status of our operating partnership, or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. If the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, were successful in treating our operating partnership as an entity taxable as a corporation, it would be liable for U.S. federal and state corporate income taxes on its taxable income and we would fail to meet the gross income tests and certain of the asset tests applicable to REITs under the Code and cease to qualify as a REIT.. We may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flows.. We may be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, tax on income from some activities conducted as a result of a foreclosure, taxes on income from certain \"prohibited transactions\" and state or local income, property and transfer taxes. In addition, any TRS that we may form or in which we may invest will be subject to regular corporate federal, state and local taxes. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distributions to our stockholders.. To maintain our status as a REIT and avoid the payment of U.S. federal income and excise taxes, we may be forced to borrow funds, use proceeds from the issuance of securities, pay taxable dividends of our stock or debt securities or sell assets to make distributions, in each case during unfavorable market conditions and which may result in our distributing amounts that would otherwise be used for our operations.. To maintain our status as a REIT, we generally must distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income each year, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding net capital gains, and we will be subject to regular corporate income taxes to the extent that we distribute less than 100% of our REIT taxable income (determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid) each year. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which distributions paid by us in any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income, 95% of our capital gain net income and 100% of our undistributed income from prior years. These requirements could cause us to distribute amounts that otherwise would be spent on operations, the acquisitions of properties and the service of our debt. It is possible that we could be required to borrow funds, use proceeds from the issuance of securities, pay taxable dividends of our stock or debt securities or sell assets in order to distribute enough of our taxable income to qualify or maintain our qualification as a REIT and to avoid the payment of U.S. federal income and excise taxes. We cannot assure you that a sufficient amount of capital will be available to us on favorable terms, or at all, when needed for the foregoing purposes,. 35. which would materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to pay distributions, and the market price of our common stock.. Complying with the REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities or liquidate otherwise attractive investments.. To maintain our status as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our shares. In order to meet these tests, we may be required to forego investments we might otherwise make or liquidate otherwise attractive investments. Compliance with the REIT requirements may reduce our income and amounts available for distribution to our stockholders and otherwise hinder our performance.. The \"prohibited transactions\" tax may limit our ability to dispose of our properties.. A REIT's net gain or income from \"prohibited transactions\" is subject to a 100% penalty tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property, other than foreclosure property, held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. Although a safe harbor regarding the characterization of the sale of real property by a REIT as a prohibited transaction is available, we cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with the safe harbor with respect to any sale of our properties or that we will avoid owning property that may be characterized as held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. Consequently, we may choose not to engage in an otherwise attractive sale of property or may conduct such a sale through a TRS, which would subject such sale to federal and state income taxation.. Any ownership of a TRS will be subject to limitations, and our transactions with a TRS cause us to be subject to a 100% penalty tax on certain income or deductions if those transactions are not conducted on arm's-length terms.. We have formed one TRS, and in the future, may form other TRSs for various reasons, including for the purpose of leasing \"qualified healthcare properties\" from us pursuant to the provisions of REIT Investment Diversification and Empowerment Act of 2007, or RIDEA. Overall, no more than 20% of the value of a REIT's assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more TRSs. In addition, the Code limits the deductibility of interest paid or accrued by a TRS to its parent REIT to assure that the TRS is subject to an appropriate level of corporate taxation. The Code also imposes a 100% excise tax on certain transactions between a TRS and its parent REIT that are not conducted on an arm's-length basis. We will monitor the value of our respective investments in our TRSs for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the TRS ownership limitation and will structure any future transactions with any TRS on terms that we believe are arm's length to avoid incurring the 100% excise tax described above. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with such TRS ownership limitation or to avoid application of the 100% excise tax.. TRSs will increase our overall tax liability.. Our one TRS, and any TRSs that we may form in the future, including a TRS formed to lease \"qualified healthcare properties\" from us under the provisions of RIDEA, will be subject to federal and state income tax on its taxable income. Accordingly, although our ownership of a TRS may allow us to participate in income we otherwise could not receive directly as a REIT, such income would be fully subject to federal and state income tax.. If a TRS tenant failed to qualify as a TRS, or the operator of a facility engaged by a TRS tenant did not qualify as an \"eligible independent contractor,\" we could fail to qualify as a REIT and could be subject to higher taxes and have less cash available for distribution to our stockholders.. We may, in the future, lease certain of our properties that qualify as \"qualified healthcare properties\" to a TRS tenant, although we have no present intention to do so. Rent paid by a tenant that is a \"related party tenant\" of ours will not be qualifying income for purposes of the two gross income tests applicable to REITs. However, so long as any TRS tenant of ours qualifies as a TRS, it will not be treated as a \"related party tenant\" with respect to our. 36. healthcare properties that are managed by \"eligible independent contractors.\" We would seek to structure any future arrangements with a TRS tenant such that the TRS tenant would qualify to be treated as a TRS for U.S. federal income tax purposes, but there can be no assurance that the IRS would not challenge the status of a TRS or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. If the IRS were successful in disqualifying a TRS tenant from treatment as a TRS, it is possible that we would fail to meet the asset tests applicable to REITs and a significant portion of our income would fail to qualify for the gross income tests. If we failed to meet either the asset or gross income tests, we would likely lose our REIT qualification for federal income tax purposes.. Additionally, if the operator of a facility engaged by a TRS tenant does not qualify as an \"eligible independent contractor,\" we could fail to qualify as a REIT. Any operator of a healthcare facility leased to a TRS tenant must qualify as an \"eligible independent contractor\" under the REIT rules in order for the rent paid to us by such TRS tenant to be qualifying income for purposes of the REIT gross income tests. Among other requirements, in order to qualify as an eligible independent contractor a facility operator must not own, directly or indirectly, more than 35% of our outstanding shares and no person or group of persons can own more than 35% of our outstanding shares and the ownership interests of the facility operator, taking into account certain ownership attribution rules. The ownership attribution rules that apply for purposes of these 35% thresholds are complex. Although we would monitor ownership of our shares by any facility operators and their owners, there can be no assurance that these ownership levels will not be exceeded.. If leases of our properties are not respected as true leases for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would fail to qualify as a REIT and would be subject to higher taxes and have less cash available for distribution to our stockholders.. Rents paid to us by third-party tenants and any TRS tenant that we may form in the future pursuant to the leases of our properties will constitute substantially all of our gross income. In order for such rent to qualify as \"rents from real property\" for purposes of the gross income tests applicable to REITs, the leases must be respected as true leases for U.S. federal income tax purposes and not be treated as service contracts, joint ventures or some other type of arrangement. If our leases are not respected as true leases for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would fail to qualify as a REIT.. You may be restricted from acquiring or transferring certain amounts of our common stock.. The share ownership restrictions of the Code for REITs and the 9.8% share ownership limit and other restrictions on ownership and transfer of our shares contained in our charter may inhibit market activity in our shares and restrict our business combination opportunities.. In order to maintain our status as a REIT each taxable year, five or fewer individuals, as defined in the Code, may not own, beneficially or constructively, more than 50% in value of our issued and outstanding shares at any time during the last half of each taxable year. Attribution rules in the Code determine if any individual or entity beneficially or constructively owns our shares under this requirement. Additionally, at least 100 persons must beneficially own our shares during at least 335 days of a taxable year for each taxable year. To help insure that we meet these tests, our charter restricts the acquisition and ownership of shares.. Our charter, with certain exceptions, authorizes our directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT. Unless exempted by our board of directors, our charter prohibits any person from beneficially or constructively owning more than 9.8% in value of the outstanding shares of our capital stock or 9.8%, in value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Our board of directors may not grant an exemption from these restrictions to any proposed transferee whose ownership in excess of such limits would result in our failing to qualify as a REIT. This, as well as other restrictions on transferability and ownership, will not apply if our board of directors determines that it is no longer in our best interests to continue to qualify as a REIT.. 37. Dividends payable by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates available for some dividends.. The maximum tax rate applicable to \"qualified dividend income\" payable to U.S. stockholders that are taxed at individual rates is 20%. Dividends payable by REITs, however, generally are not eligible for the reduced rates on qualified dividend income. The more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate qualified dividends could cause investors who are taxed at individual rates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the shares of REITs, including our common stock. However, for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, certain stockholders may be able to deduct up to 20% of \"qualified REIT dividends\" pursuant to Section 199A of the Code subject to certain limitations set forth in the Code.. Distributions to tax-exempt stockholders may be classified as unrelated business tax income.. In general, neither ordinary nor capital gain distributions with respect to our common stock, nor gain from the sale of our common stock, should constitute unrelated business tax income, or UBTI, to a tax-exempt stockholder. However, under certain limited circumstances, income and gain recognized by certain tax-exempt stockholders could be treated, in whole or in part, as UBTI.. Non-U.S. stockholders may be subject to FIRPTA taxation upon the sale of their shares of our common stock.. Subject to the exceptions described herein, a non-U.S. person generally is subject to U.S. federal income tax on gain recognized on a disposition of our stock under the Foreign Investment in Real Property Tax Act, or FIRPTA. However, such FIRPTA tax will not apply if we are \"domestically controlled,\" meaning less than 50% of our stock, by value, has been owned directly or indirectly by non-U.S. persons during a specified look-back period. In addition, even if we were not domestically controlled, such tax would not apply to such non-U.S. stockholder if our common stock was traded on an established securities market and such stockholder did not, at any time during the five-year period prior to a sale of our common stock, directly or indirectly own more than 5% of the value of our outstanding common stock. We cannot assure you that we will qualify as a \"domestically controlled\" REIT, although we expect our stock will be regularly traded on an established securities market.. Our capital gain distributions to non-U.S. stockholders attributable to our sales of U.S. real property interests may be subject to tax under FIRPTA.. A non-U.S. stockholder generally is subject to U.S. income tax on our capital gain distributions attributable to our sales of U.S. real property interests under FIRPTA. However, if our common stock is regularly traded on an established securities market, such distributions will not be subject to such tax if such stockholder did not, at any time during the one-year period preceding the distribution, directly or indirectly own more than 5% of the value of our outstanding common stock. While we expect our stock will be regularly traded on an established securities market, if it is not so traded, or if we are unable to determine the level of ownership of a particular non-U.S. stockholder, we may be required to withhold 35% of any distribution to such stockholder that we designate as a capital gain dividend.. We may be subject to adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes that could reduce the market price of our common stock.. At any time, the U.S. federal income tax laws governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws may be amended. We cannot predict when or if any new U.S. federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, or any amendment to any existing U.S. federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, will be adopted, promulgated or become effective and any such law, regulation, or interpretation may take effect retroactively. We and our stockholders could be adversely affected by any such change in the U.S. federal income tax laws, regulations or administrative interpretations.. In December 2017, Congress enacted a comprehensive tax reform bill (the \"2017 Tax Reform Bill\"). Among other things, the 2017 Tax Reform Bill reduces the top corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, allows a deduction of up to. 38. 20% of qualified business income including qualified REIT dividends, eliminates the corporate alternative minimum tax, and places certain additional limitations on the deductibility of interest expense. Additionally, the 2017 Tax Reform Bill requires that taxpayers using the accrual method for income tax accounting take into account certain items of income for income tax purposes no later than the time such items are taken into account as revenue for financial accounting purposes on certain financial statements. To the extent that we are required to recognize any item of revenue for financial accounting purposes (such as straight-lining of rent pursuant to Accounting Standards Codification Topic 840), we may be required to recognize such item for income tax purposes. The full effect of the 2017 Tax Reform Bill on the real estate industry and our business are not yet known.. Risks Related to our Common Stock. The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile.. Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange.  As an active trading market continues to develop for our common stock, the market price of our common stock may be volatile. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur, and investors in our common stock may from time to time experience a decrease in the value of their shares, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. If the market price of our common stock declines significantly, you may be unable to resell your shares at or above the price at which you purchased such shares. We cannot assure you that the market price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future.. Some of the factors that could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common stock include:. • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results or dividends;. • changes in our FFO or earnings estimates;. • publication of research reports about us or the real estate industry;. • increases in market interest rates that lead purchasers of our shares to demand a higher yield;. • changes in market valuations of similar companies;. • adverse market reaction to any additional debt we incur in the future;. • additions or departures of key management personnel;. • actions by institutional stockholders;. • speculation in the press or investment community;. • the realization of any of the other risk factors presented in this report;. • the extent of investor interest in our securities;. • the general reputation of REITs and the attractiveness of our equity securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate-based companies;. • our underlying asset value;. • investor confidence in the stock and bond markets generally;. • changes in tax laws;. 39. • future equity issuances;. • failure to meet earnings estimates;. • failure to meet and maintain REIT qualification;. • changes in our credit ratings; and. • general market and economic conditions.. In the past, securities class-action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the price of their common stock. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on us, including our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and the market price of our common stock.. Increases in market interest rates may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock as prospective purchasers of our common stock may expect a higher dividend yield and as an increased cost of borrowing may decrease our funds available for distribution.. One of the factors that will influence the market price of our common stock will be the dividend yield on the common stock (as a percentage of the price of our common stock) relative to market interest rates. An increase in market interest rates, which are currently at low levels relative to historical rates, may lead prospective purchasers of our common stock to expect a higher dividend yield (with a resulting decline in the trading prices of our common stock) and higher interest rates would likely increase our borrowing costs and potentially decrease funds available for distribution. Thus, higher market interest rates could cause the market price of our common stock to decrease.. Our issuance of equity securities or the perception that such issuances might occur could materially adversely affect us, including the per share trading price of our common stock.. The vesting of any restricted shares granted to certain directors, executive officers and other employees under our 2014 Incentive Plan, the issuance of our common stock or OP Units in connection with future property, portfolio or business acquisitions and other issuances of our common stock could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock, and the existence of our common stock issuable under our 2014 Incentive Plan may adversely affect the terms upon which we may be able to obtain additional capital through the sale of equity securities. In addition, future issuances of our common stock may be dilutive to existing stockholders.. If securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our industry or if they downgrade our common stock or the healthcare-related real estate sector, the price of our common stock could decline.. The trading market for our common stock relies in part upon the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our industry. We have no control over these analysts. Furthermore, if one or more of the analysts who do cover us downgrades our shares or our industry, or the stock of any of our competitors, the market price of our common stock could decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company, we could lose attention in the market which in turn could cause the market price of our common stock to decline.. Future sales of shares of our common stock, particularly by our executive officers or directors, may cause the per share trading price of our common stock to decline.. Any sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, or the perception that those sales might occur, may cause the market price of the common stock to decline. After the expiration of any applicable transfer restrictions imposed by our 2014 Incentive Plan, stock purchase agreements or lockup agreements with us, our executive officers and directors will have the ability to sell all of any portion of the applicable common stock which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline.. 40"
