[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. There are risks inherent in the Company's business.  The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect the Company are described below.  Adverse experience with these could have a material impact on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in interest rates affect our profitability, assets and liabilities.. The Company's income and cash flow depends to a great extent on the difference between the interest earned on loans and investment securities, and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings.  Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the Company's control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the FRB.  Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (1) our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, which could reduce the amount of fee income generated, (2) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities and (3) the average duration of the Company's various categories of earning assets.  If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net interest income could be adversely affected, which in turn could negatively affect our earnings.  Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings.  Although management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on the results of operations, any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition and results of operations.. The Company operates in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations or the interpretation and examination of existing laws and regulations.. The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision and legislation that govern nearly every aspect of its operations.  The Company, as a financial holding company, is subject to regulation by the FRB and its banking subsidiary is subject to regulation by the OCC.  These regulations affect deposit and lending practices, capital levels and structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth.  In addition, the non-bank subsidiaries are engaged in providing retirement plan administration, fiduciary services to collective investment funds, investment management and insurance brokerage services, which industries are also heavily regulated at both a state and federal level.  Such regulators govern the activities in which the Company and its subsidiaries may engage.  These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of a bank, the classification of assets by a bank and the adequacy of a bank's allowance for loan losses.  Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation, interpretation or application, could have a material impact on the Company and its operations.  Changes to the regulatory laws governing these businesses could affect the Company's ability to deliver or expand its services and adversely impact its operating and financial condition.. 13. Table of Contents. For example, the Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in July 2010, instituted major changes to the banking and financial institutions regulatory regimes based upon the performance of, and ultimate government intervention in, the financial services sector.  To date, not all the rules required or expected to be implemented under the Dodd-Frank Act have been adopted and many of the rules that have been adopted are subject to interpretation or clarification.  The implications of the Dodd-Frank Act for the Company's businesses continue to depend to a large extent on the implementation of the legislation by the FRB and other agencies as well as how market practices and structures change in response to the requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act.  All of these changes in regulations could subject the Company, among other things, to additional costs and limit the types of financial services and products it can offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products.. The Company is also directly subject to the requirements of entities that set and interpret the accounting standards such as the Financial Accounting Standards Board, and indirectly subject to the actions and interpretations of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, which establishes auditing and related professional practice standards for registered public accounting firms and inspects registered firms to assess their compliance with certain laws, rules, and professional standards in public company audits.  These regulations, along with the currently existing tax, accounting, securities, insurance, and monetary laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies and interpretations, control the methods by which financial institutions and their holding companies conduct business, engage in strategic and tax planning, implement strategic initiatives, and govern financial reporting.. The Company's failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in civil or criminal sanctions and money penalties by state and federal agencies, and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.  See \"Supervision and Regulation\" for more information about the regulations to which the Company is subject.. The Company's total consolidated assets exceeded $10 billion and is therefore subject to additional regulation and increased supervision including the CFPB.. The Dodd-Frank Act imposes additional regulatory requirement on institutions with $10 billion or more in assets.  The Company had $10.7 billion in assets as of December 31, 2017 as a result of the merger with Merchants in May 2017.  The Company is now subject to the following: (1) supervision, examination and enforcement by the CFPB with respect to consumer financial protection laws, (2) regulatory stress testing requirements, whereby the Company will be required to conduct an annual stress test using assumptions for baseline, adverse and severely adverse scenarios, (3) a modified methodology for calculating FDIC insurance assessments and potentially higher assessment rates as a result of institutions with $10 billion or more in assets being required to bear a greater portion of the cost of raising the reserve ratio to 1.35% as required by the Dodd-Frank Act, (4) limitations on interchange fees for debit card transactions, (5) heightened compliance standards under the Volcker Rule, and (6) enhanced supervision as a larger financial institution.  The imposition of these regulatory requirements and increased supervision may continue to require additional commitment of financial resources to regulatory compliance and may increase the Company's cost of operations.  Further, the results of the stress testing process may lead the Company to retain additional capital or alter the mix of its capital components.. Basel III capital rules generally require insured depository institutions and their holding companies to hold more capital, which could limit our ability to pay dividends, engage in share repurchases and pay discretionary bonuses.. The Federal Reserve, the FDIC and the OCC adopted final rules for the Basel III capital framework which substantially amended the regulatory risk-based capital rules applicable to the Company. The rules phase in over time becoming fully effective in 2019.  Beginning in 2016, a capital conservation buffer will phase in over three years, ultimately resulting in a requirement of 2.5% on top of the common Tier 1, Tier 1 and total capital requirements, resulting in a required common Tier 1 equity ratio of 7%, a Tier 1 ratio of 8.5%, and a total capital ratio of 10.5%. Failure to satisfy any of these three capital requirements will result in limits on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases and paying discretionary bonuses. These limitations will establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that could be utilized for such actions.. Regional economic factors may have an adverse impact on the Company's business.. The Company's main markets are located in the states of New York, Pennsylvania, Vermont and Massachusetts.  Most of the Company's customers are individuals and small and medium-sized businesses which are dependent upon the regional economy.  Accordingly, the local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on the demand for the Company's products and services as well as the ability of the Company's customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans and the stability of the Company's deposit funding sources.  A prolonged economic downturn in these markets could negatively impact the Company.. 14. Table of Contents. The Company is subject to a variety of operational risks, including reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, which may adversely affect the Company's business and results of operations.. The Company is exposed to many types of operational risks, including reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, unauthorized transactions by employees, or operational errors, including clerical or record keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems or disclosure of confidential proprietary information of its customers.  Negative public opinion can result from actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, sales practices, customer treatment, corporate governance and acquisitions and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect the Company's ability to attract and keep customers and can expose the Company to litigation and regulatory action. Actual or alleged conduct by the Company can result in negative public opinion about its business.. If personal, nonpublic, confidential, or proprietary information of customers in the Company's possession were to be mishandled or misused, the Company could suffer significant regulatory consequences, reputational damage, and financial loss. Such mishandling or misuse could include, for example, if such information were erroneously provided to parties who are not permitted to have the information, either by fault of its systems, employees, or counterparties, or where such information is intercepted or otherwise inappropriately taken by third parties.. Because the nature of the financial services business involves a high volume of transactions, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully rectified. The Company's necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process transactions and the large transaction volumes may further increase the risk that technical flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect.  The Company also may be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond its control (for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages), which may give rise to disruption of service to customers and to financial loss or liability. The Company is further exposed to the risk that external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees) and to the risk that business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. The occurrence of any of these risks could result in a diminished ability to operate the Company's business, potential liability to clients, reputational damage, and regulatory intervention, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations, perhaps materially.. The financial services industry is highly competitive and creates competitive pressures that could adversely affect the Company's revenue and profitability.. The financial services industry in which the Company operates is highly competitive.  The Company competes not only with commercial and other banks and thrifts, but also with insurance companies, mutual funds, hedge funds, securities brokerage firms and other companies offering financial services in the U.S., globally and over the Internet.  The Company competes on the basis of several factors, including capital, access to capital, revenue generation, products, services, transaction execution, innovation, reputation and price.  Over time, certain sectors of the financial services industry have become more concentrated, as institutions involved in a broad range of financial services have been acquired by or merged into other firms.  These developments could result in the Company's competitors gaining greater capital and other resources, such as a broader range of products and services and geographic diversity.  The Company may experience pricing pressures as a result of these factors and as some of its competitors seek to increase market share by reducing prices or paying higher rates of interest on deposits.  Finally, technological change is influencing how individuals and firms conduct their financial affairs and changing the delivery channels for financial services, with the result that the Company may have to contend with a broader range of competitors including many that are not located within the geographic footprint of its banking office network.. Conditions in the insurance market could adversely affect the Company's earnings.. Revenue from insurance fees and commissions could be negatively affected by fluctuating premiums in the insurance markets or other factors beyond the Company's control.  Other factors that affect insurance revenue are the profitability and growth of the Company's clients, the renewal rate of the current insurance policies, continued development of new product and services as well as access to new markets.  The Company's insurance revenues and profitability may also be adversely affected by new laws and regulatory developments impacting the healthcare and insurance markets.. The allowance for loan losses may be insufficient.. The Company's business depends on the creditworthiness of its customers.  The Company reviews the allowance for loan losses quarterly for adequacy considering economic conditions and trends, collateral values and credit quality indicators, including past charge-off experience and levels of past due loans and nonperforming assets.  If the Company's assumptions prove to be incorrect, the Company's allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in the Company's loan portfolio, resulting in additions to the allowance.  Material additions to the allowance would materially decrease its net income.  It is possible that over time the allowance for loan losses will be inadequate to cover credit losses in the portfolio because of unanticipated adverse changes in the economy, market conditions or events adversely affecting specific customers, industries or markets.. 15. Table of Contents. Changes in the equity markets could materially affect the level of assets under management and the demand for other fee-based services.. Economic downturns could affect the volume of income from and demand for fee-based services.  Revenue from the wealth management and benefit plan administration businesses depends in large part on the level of assets under management and administration.  Market volatility, and the potential to lead customers to liquidate investments, as well as lower asset values, can reduce the level of assets under management and administration and thereby decrease the Company's investment management and administration revenues.. Mortgage banking income may experience significant volatility.. Mortgage banking income is highly influenced by the level and direction of mortgage interest rates, and real estate and refinancing activity.  In lower interest rate environments, the demand for mortgage loans and refinancing activity will tend to increase.  This has the effect of increasing fee income, but could adversely impact the estimated fair value of the Company's mortgage servicing rights as the rate of loan prepayments increase.  In higher interest rate environments, the demand for mortgage loans and refinancing activity will generally be lower.  This has the effect of decreasing fee income opportunities.. The Company depends on dividends from its banking subsidiary for cash revenues, but those dividends are subject to restrictions.. The ability of the Company to satisfy its obligations and pay cash dividends to its shareholders is primarily dependent on the earnings of and dividends from the subsidiary bank.  However, payment of dividends by the bank subsidiary is limited by dividend restrictions and capital requirements imposed by bank regulations.  The ability to pay dividends is also subject to the continued payment of interest that the Company owes on its subordinated junior debentures.  As of December 31, 2017, the Company had $122.8 million of subordinated junior debentures outstanding.  The Company has the right to defer payment of interest on the subordinated junior debentures for a period not exceeding 20 quarters, although the Company has not done so to date.  If the Company defers interest payments on the subordinated junior debentures, it will be prohibited, subject to certain exceptions, from paying cash dividends on the common stock until all deferred interest has been paid and interest payments on the subordinated junior debentures resumes.. The risks presented by acquisitions could adversely affect the Company's financial condition and result of operations.. The business strategy of the Company includes growth through acquisition.  Recently completed and future acquisitions will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in acquisitions.  These risks include among other things: obtaining timely regulatory approval, the difficulty of integrating operations and personnel, the potential disruption of our ongoing business, the inability of the Company's management to maximize its financial and strategic position, the inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, and the impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of changes in ownership and management.  Further, the asset quality or other financial characteristics of a company may deteriorate after the acquisition agreement is signed or after the acquisition closes.. A portion of the Company's loan portfolio is acquired and was not underwritten by the Company at origination.. At December 31, 2017, 26% of the loan portfolio was acquired and was not underwritten by the Company at origination, and therefore is not necessarily reflective of the Company's historical credit risk experience. The Company performed extensive credit due diligence prior to each acquisition and marked the loans to fair value upon acquisition, with such fair valuation considering expected credit losses that existed at the time of acquisition. Additionally, the Company evaluates the expected cash flows of these loans on a quarterly basis. However, there is a risk that credit losses could be larger than currently anticipated, thus adversely affecting earnings.. The Company may be required to record impairment charges related to goodwill, other intangible assets and the investment portfolio.. The Company may be required to record impairment charges in respect to goodwill, other intangible assets and the investment portfolio.  Numerous factors, including lack of liquidity for resale of certain investment securities, absence of reliable pricing information for investment securities, the economic condition of state and local municipalities, adverse changes in the business climate, adverse actions by regulators, unanticipated changes in the competitive environment or a decision to change the operations or dispose of an operating unit could have a negative effect on the investment portfolio, goodwill or other intangible assets in future periods.. 16. Table of Contents. The Company's financial statements are based, in part, on assumptions and estimates, which, if conditions change, could cause unexpected losses in the future.. Pursuant to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, the Company is required to use certain assumptions and estimates in preparing its financial statements, including in determining credit loss reserves, mortgage repurchase liability and reserves related to litigation, among other items.  Certain of the Company's financial instruments, including available-for-sale securities and certain loans, among other items, require a determination of their fair value in order to prepare the Company's financial statements.  Where quoted market prices are not available, the Company may make fair value determinations based on internally developed models or other means which ultimately rely to some degree on management judgment.  Some of these and other assets and liabilities may have no direct observable price levels, making their valuation particularly subjective, as they are based on significant estimation and judgment.  In addition, sudden illiquidity in markets or declines in prices of certain loans and securities may make it more difficult to value certain balance sheet items, which may lead to the possibility that such valuations will be subject to further change or adjustment.  If assumptions or estimates underlying the Company's financial statements are incorrect, it may experience material losses.. Financial services companies depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties.. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, the Company may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports and other financial information. The Company may also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports or other information could have a material adverse impact on business and, in turn, the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. The Company's information systems may experience an interruption or security breach.. The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business.  The Company may be the subject of sophisticated and targeted attacks intended to obtain unauthorized access to assets or confidential information, destroy data, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems, often through the introduction of computer viruses or malware, cyber-attacks and other means.  Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in the Company's online banking system, its general ledger, and its deposit and loan servicing and origination systems or other systems.  Furthermore, if personal, confidential or proprietary information of customers or clients in the Company's possession were to be mishandled or misused, the Company could suffer significant regulatory consequences, reputational damage and financial loss.  Such mishandling or misuse could include circumstances where, for example, such information was erroneously provided to parties who are not permitted to have the information, either by fault of the Company's systems, employees, or counterparties, or where such information was intercepted or otherwise inappropriately taken by third parties.  The Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the possible failure, interruption or security breach of its information systems; however, any such failure, interruption or security breach could adversely affect the Company's business and results of operations through loss of assets or by requiring it to expend significant resources to correct the defect, as well as exposing the Company to customer dissatisfaction and civil litigation, regulatory fines or penalties or losses not covered by insurance.. We rely on third party vendors, which could expose the Company to additional cybersecurity risks.. Third party vendors provide key components of our business infrastructure, including certain data processing and information services. On behalf of the Company, third parties may transmit confidential, propriety information. Although the Company requires third party providers to maintain certain levels of information security, such providers may remain vulnerable to breaches, unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses, or other malicious attacks that could ultimately compromise sensitive information. While the Company may contractually limit liability in connection with attacks against third party providers, the Company remains exposed to the risk of loss associated with such vendors. In addition, a number of the Company's vendors are large national entities with dominant market presence in their respective fields. Their services could prove difficult to replace in a timely manner if a failure or other service interruption were to occur. Failures of certain vendors to provide contracted services could adversely affect the Company's ability to deliver products and services to customers and cause the Company to incur significant expense.. 17. Table of Contents. The Company is exposed to fraud in many aspects of the services and products that it provides.. The Company offers a wide variety of products and services.  When account credentials and other access tools are not adequately protected, risks and potential costs may increase.  As (a) sales of these services and products expand, (b) those who are committing fraud become more sophisticated and more determined, and (c) banking services and product offerings expand, the Company's operational losses could increase.. The Company may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions.. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships.  The Company has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry.  Many of these transactions expose the Company to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client.  In addition, credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by the Company cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or derivative exposure due to the Company. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. The Company is or may become involved in lawsuits, legal proceedings, information-gathering requests, investigations, and proceedings by governmental agencies or other parties that may lead to adverse consequences.. As a participant in the financial services industry, many aspects of the Company's business involve substantial risk of legal liability. The Company and its subsidiaries have been named or threatened to be named as defendants in various lawsuits arising from its or its subsidiaries' business activities (and in some cases from the activities of acquired companies). In addition, from time to time, the Company is, or may become, the subject of governmental and self-regulatory agency information-gathering requests, reviews, investigations and proceedings and other forms of regulatory inquiry, including by bank regulatory agencies, the SEC and law enforcement authorities. The results of such proceedings could lead to delays in or prohibition to acquire other companies, significant penalties, including monetary penalties, damages, adverse judgments, settlements, fines, injunctions, restrictions on the way in which the Company conducts its business, or reputational harm.. Although the Company establishes accruals for legal proceedings when information related to the loss contingencies represented by those matters indicates both that a loss is probable and that the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated, the Company does not have accruals for all legal proceedings where it faces a risk of loss. In addition, due to the inherent subjectivity of the assessments and unpredictability of the outcome of legal proceedings, amounts accrued may not represent the ultimate loss to the Company from the legal proceedings in question. Thus, the Company's ultimate losses may be higher than the amounts accrued for legal loss contingencies, which could adversely affect the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. The Company continually encounters technological change and the failure to understand and adapt to these changes could have a negative impact on the business.. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. The Company's future success depends, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in the Company's operations. Many of the Company's competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. The Company may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological changes affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. Trading activity in the Company's common stock could result in material price fluctuations.. The market price of the Company's common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of other factors including, but not limited to:.   Changes in securities analysts' expectations of financial performance;.   Volatility of stock market prices and volumes;.   Incorrect information or speculation;.   Changes in industry valuations;.   Variations in operating results from general expectations;.   Actions taken against the Company by various regulatory agencies;.   Changes in authoritative accounting guidance by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other regulatory agencies;.   Changes in general domestic economic conditions such as inflation rates, tax rates, unemployment rates, oil prices, labor and healthcare cost trend rates, recessions, and changing government policies, laws and regulations; and.   Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other external events.. 18. Table of Contents. The Company's ability to attract and retain qualified employees is critical to the success of its business, and failure to do so may have a materially adverse effect on the Company's performance.. The Company's employees are its most important resource, and in many areas of the financial services industry, competition for qualified personnel is intense.  The imposition on the Company or its employees of certain existing and proposed restrictions or taxes on executive compensation may adversely affect the Company's ability to attract and retain qualified senior management and employees.  If the Company provides inadequate succession planning, is unable to continue to retain and attract qualified employees, the Company's performance, including its competitive position, could have a materially adverse effect."
