[1] "Item 1a.  RISK FACTORS. Making or continuing an investment in securities issued by Commerce Bancshares, Inc., including its common and preferred stock, involves certain risks that you should carefully consider.  If any of the following risks actually occur, its business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected, the market price for your securities could decline, and you could lose all or a part of your investment.  Further, to the extent that any of the information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K constitutes forward-looking statements, the risk factors set forth below also are cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of Commerce Bancshares, Inc.. Difficult market conditions may affect the Company's industry.. The concentration of the Company's banking business in the United States particularly exposes it to downturns in the U.S. economy. While current economic conditions are favorable, there remain risks in that environment.. In particular, the Company may face the following risks in connection with market conditions:. • In the current national environment, positive trends in job growth, unemployment levels, consumer confidence, and credit conditions are expected to continue.  However, the U.S. economy is also affected by foreign economic events and conditions.  Although the Company does not hold foreign debt, the global economy, the strength of the U.S. dollar, and oil prices may ultimately affect interest rates, business export activity, capital expenditures by businesses, and investor confidence.  Unfavorable changes in these factors may result in declines in consumer credit usage, adverse changes in payment patterns, reduced loan demand, and higher loan delinquencies and default rates.  These could impact the Company's future loan losses and provision for loan losses, as a significant part of the Company's business includes consumer and credit card lending.. • In addition to the results above, reduced levels of economic activity may cause declines in financial services activity, including declines in bank card, corporate cash management and other fee businesses, as well as the fees earned by the Company on such transactions.. • The process used to estimate losses inherent in the Company's loan portfolio requires difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic predictions might impair the ability of its borrowers to repay their loans.  If an instance occurs that renders these predictions no longer capable of accurate estimation, this may in turn impact the reliability of the process.. • Competition in the industry could intensify as a result of the increasing consolidation of financial services companies in connection with current market conditions, thereby reducing market prices for various products and services which could in turn reduce Company revenues.. 8. Table of contents. The performance of the Company is dependent on the economic conditions of the markets in which the Company operates.. The Company's success is heavily influenced by the general economic conditions of the specific markets in which it operates.  Unlike larger national or other regional banks that are more geographically diversified, the Company provides financial services primarily throughout the states of Missouri, Kansas, and central Illinois, and in its expansion markets in Oklahoma, Colorado and other surrounding states.  As the Company does not have a significant banking presence in other parts of the country, a prolonged economic downturn in these markets could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. The Company operates in a highly competitive industry and market area.. The Company operates in the financial services industry and has numerous competitors including other banks and insurance companies, securities dealers, brokers, trust and investment companies and mortgage bankers.  Consolidation among financial service providers and new changes in technology, product offerings and regulation continue to challenge the Company's marketplace position.  As consolidation occurs, larger regional and national banks may enter our markets and add to existing competition.  Large national financial institutions have substantial capital, technology and marketing resources.  These new banks may lower fees in an effort to grow market share, which could result in a loss of customers and lower fee revenue for the Company. They may have greater access to capital at a lower cost than the Company, which may adversely affect the Company's ability to compete effectively. The Company must continue to make investments in its products and delivery systems to stay competitive with the industry as a whole, or its financial performance may suffer.. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect the Company.. The Company's ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institution counterparties. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. The Company has exposure to many different industries and counterparties and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual funds, and other institutional clients. Transactions with these institutions include overnight and term borrowings, interest rate swap agreements, securities purchased and sold, short-term investments, and other such transactions.  As a result of this exposure, defaults by, or rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions or the financial services industry in general, could lead to market-wide liquidity problems and defaults by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose the Company to credit risk in the event of default of its counterparty or client, while other transactions expose the Company to liquidity risks should funding sources quickly disappear.  In addition, the Company's credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the exposure due to the Company.  Any such losses could materially and adversely affect results of operations.. The Company is subject to increasingly extensive government regulation and supervision.. As part of the financial services industry, the Company has been subject to increasingly extensive federal and state regulation and supervision over the past several years.  Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors' funds, federal deposit insurance funds, and the banking system as a whole, not shareholders. These regulations affect the Company's lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy, and growth, among other things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations, and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations, or policies, could affect the Company in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject the Company to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products it may offer, and / or increase the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations, or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties, and / or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations. While the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur.. Significant changes in federal monetary policy could materially affect the Company's business.. The Federal Reserve System regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States.  Its policies determine in large part the cost of funds for lending and interest rates earned on loans and paid on borrowings and interest bearing deposits.  Credit conditions are influenced by its open market operations in U.S. government securities, changes in the member bank discount rate, and bank reserve requirements.  Changes in Federal Reserve Board policies are beyond the Company's control and difficult to predict, and such changes may result in lower interest margins and a continued lack of demand for credit products.. 9. Table of contents. The Company is subject to both interest rate and liquidity risk.. With oversight from its Asset-Liability Management Committee, the Company devotes substantial resources to monitoring its liquidity and interest rate risk on a monthly basis.  The Company's net interest income is the largest source of overall revenue to the Company, representing 59% of total revenue for the year ended at December 31, 2017.  The interest rate environment in which the Company operates fluctuates in response to general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, particularly the Federal Reserve Board.  Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence loan originations, deposit generation, demand for investments and revenues and costs for earning assets and liabilities.. The Federal Reserve Board raised the benchmark interest rate three times during 2017 for a total of 75 basis points.  Further rate increases are expected in 2018.  The Company saw only a slight decline in period end deposit balances; however, additional rate increases may result in customer deposit withdrawals which, if significant, may affect the Company's source of funds for future loan growth.  These actions may include reductions in its investment portfolio or higher borrowings, and could reduce net interest income and related margins.. The Company's asset valuation may include methodologies, models, estimations and assumptions which are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to asset valuations that may materially adversely affect its results of operations or financial condition.. The Company uses estimates, assumptions, and judgments when certain financial assets and liabilities are measured and reported at fair value. Assets and liabilities carried at fair value inherently result in a higher degree of financial statement volatility. Fair values and the information used to record valuation adjustments for certain assets and liabilities are based on quoted market prices and/or other observable inputs provided by independent third-party sources, when available. When such third-party information is not available, fair value is estimated primarily by using cash flow and other financial modeling techniques utilizing assumptions such as credit quality, liquidity, interest rates and other relevant inputs. Changes in underlying factors, assumptions, or estimates in any of these areas could materially impact the Company's future financial condition and results of operations.. During periods of market disruption, including periods of significantly rising or high interest rates, rapidly widening credit spreads or illiquidity, it may be difficult to value certain assets if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. There may be certain asset classes in active markets with significant observable data that become illiquid due to the current financial environment. In such cases, certain asset valuations may require more subjectivity and management judgment. As such, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation.  Further, rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of assets as reported within the Company's consolidated financial statements, and the period-to-period changes in value could vary significantly. Decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on results of operations or financial condition.. The processes the Company uses to estimate the fair value of financial instruments, as well as the processes used to estimate the effects of changing interest rates and other market measures on the Company's financial condition and results of operations, depend upon the use of analytical and forecasting models. If these models are inadequate or inaccurate due to flaws in their design or implementation, the fair value of such financial instruments may not accurately reflect what the Company could realize upon sale or settlement of such financial instruments, or the Company may incur increased or unexpected losses upon changes in market interest rates or other market measures. Any such failure in the Company's analytical or forecasting models could have a material adverse effect on the Company business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Company's investment portfolio values may be adversely impacted by deterioration in the credit quality of underlying collateral within the various categories of investment securities it owns.. The Company generally invests in securities issued by municipal entities, government-backed agencies or privately issued securities that are highly rated and evaluated at the time of purchase, however, these securities are subject to changes in market value due to changing interest rates and implied credit spreads.  While the Company maintains rigorous risk management practices over bonds issued by municipalities, credit deterioration in these bonds could occur and result in losses. Certain mortgage and asset-backed securities (which are collateralized by residential mortgages, credit cards, automobiles, mobile homes or other assets) may decline in value due to actual or expected deterioration in the underlying collateral. Under accounting rules, when the impairment is due to declining expected cash flows, some portion of the impairment, depending on the Company's intent to sell and the likelihood of being required to sell before recovery, must be recognized in current earnings.  This could result in significant non-cash losses.. Future loan losses could increase.. The Company maintains an allowance for loan losses that represents management's best estimate of probable losses that have been incurred at the balance sheet date within the existing portfolio of loans.  The level of the allowance reflects management's continuing evaluation of industry concentrations, specific credit risks, loan loss experience including emergence periods, current loan portfolio quality, present economic, political and regulatory conditions and unidentified losses inherent in the current loan. 10. Table of contents. portfolio.  Although the loan losses have been stable during the past several years, an unforeseen deterioration of financial market conditions could result in larger loan losses, which may negatively affect the Company's results of operations and could further increase levels of its allowance.  In addition, the Company's allowance level is subject to review by regulatory agencies, and that review could result in adjustments to the allowance.  See the section captioned \"Allowance for Loan Losses\" in Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, of this report for further discussion related to the Company's process for determining the appropriate level of the allowance for probable loan loss.. New lines of business or new products and services may subject the Company to additional risk.. From time to time, the Company may implement new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. In developing and marketing new lines of business and new products or services, the Company may invest significant time and resources. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and new products or services may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives and shifting market preferences may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business or a new product or service. Furthermore, any new line of business or new product or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of the Company's system of internal controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business and new products or services could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. The Company's reputation and future growth prospects could be impaired if cyber-security attacks or other computer system breaches occur.. The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business, and as part of its business, the Company maintains significant amounts of data about its customers and the products they use.  Information security risks for financial institutions have increased recently due to new technologies, the use of the Internet and telecommunications technologies (including mobile devices) to conduct financial and other business transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, perpetrators of fraud, hackers, and others. While the Company has policies and procedures and safeguards designed to prevent or limit the effect of failure, interruption or security breach of its information systems, there can be no assurances that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur; or if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed.  In addition to unauthorized access, denial-of-service attacks could overwhelm Company Web sites and prevent the Company from adequately serving customers.  Should any of the Company's systems become compromised, the reputation of the Company could be damaged, relationships with existing customers may be impaired, and the Company could be subject to lawsuits, all of which could result in lost business, and as a result, the Company could incur significant expenses trying to remedy the incident.. The Company's operations rely on certain external vendors.. The Company relies on third-party vendors to provide products and services necessary to maintain day-to-day operations. For example, the Company outsources a portion of its information systems, communication, data management and transaction processing to third parties.  Accordingly, the Company is exposed to the risk that these vendors might not perform in accordance with the contracted arrangements or service level agreements because of changes in the vendor's organizational structure, financial condition, support for existing products and services, or strategic focus.  Such failure to perform could be disruptive to the Company's operations, which could have a materially adverse impact on its business, results of operations and financial condition.  These third parties are also sources of risk associated with operational errors, system interruptions or breaches and unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. If the vendors encounter any of these issues, the Company could be exposed to disruption of service, damage to reputation and litigation.  Because the Company is an issuer of both debit and credit cards, it is periodically exposed to losses related to security breaches which occur at retailers that are unaffiliated with the Company (e.g., customer card data being compromised at retail stores).  These losses include, but are not limited to, costs and expenses for card reissuance as well as losses resulting from fraudulent card transactions.. The Company continually encounters technological change.. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services, including the entrance of financial technology companies offering new financial service products. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. The Company's future success depends, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in the Company's operations.  Many of the Company's competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. The Company may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. 11. Table of contents. Commerce Bancshares, Inc. relies on dividends from its subsidiary bank for most of its revenue.. Commerce Bancshares, Inc. is a separate and distinct legal entity from its banking and other subsidiaries. It receives substantially all of its revenue from dividends from its subsidiary bank.  These dividends, which are limited by various federal and state regulations, are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on its preferred and common stock and to meet its other cash needs. In the event the subsidiary bank is unable to pay dividends to it, Commerce Bancshares, Inc. may not be able to pay dividends or other obligations, which would have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. The Company may not attract and retain skilled employees.. The Company's success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and retain key people.  Competition for the best people can be intense, and the Company spends considerable time and resources attracting and hiring qualified people for its various business lines and support units. The unexpected loss of the services of one or more of the Company's key personnel could have a material adverse impact on the Company's business because of their skills, knowledge of the Company's market, and years of industry experience, as well as the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 may have unexpected consequences for the Company.. In December 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (\"the Act\") was passed.  Among other elements, the Act reduces income tax rates for businesses and individuals.  While the Act significantly lowers the Company's income tax expense, the effect of lower tax rates on customer behavior remains uncertain.  Lowering the business and individual income tax rates may reduce demand for loans and impact deposit balances, which may negatively affect the Company's financial position."
