[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. These are not the only risks we face.. If any of these risks and uncertainties were to actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment.. Our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by downturns in the U.S. and global economy which are naturally accompanied by related declines in freight tonnage hauled and in infrastructure development and other construction projects.. Our results of operations are directly impacted by changes in the U.S. and global economic conditions which are accompanied by related declines in freight tonnage hauled in infrastructure development and other construction projects because, among other things:. • Demand for our MD/HD truck products is generally dependent on the number of new MD/HD truck commercial vehicles manufactured in North America. Historically, the demand for MD/HD truck commercial vehicles has declined during periods of weakness in the North American economy.. • Demand for our construction products is also dependent on the overall vehicle demand for new commercial vehicles in the global construction equipment market.. • Demand in the medium and heavy construction vehicle market, which is the market in which our GCA products are primarily used, is typically related to the level of larger-scale infrastructure development projects.. • Demand in the light construction equipment market is typically related to certain economic conditions such as the level of housing construction and other smaller-scale developments and projects.. If we experience periods of low demand for our products in the future, it could have a negative impact on our revenues, operating results and financial position.. Volatility and cyclicality in the commercial vehicle market could adversely affect us.. Our profitability depends in part on the varying conditions in the commercial vehicle market. This market is subject to considerable volatility as it moves in response to cycles in the overall business environment and is particularly sensitive to the industrial sector of the economy, which generates a significant portion of the freight tonnage hauled. Sales of commercial vehicles have historically been cyclical, with demand affected by such economic factors as industrial production, construction levels, demand for consumer durable goods, interest rates and fuel costs.. Historically, general weakness in the global economy, but especially the North American economy, and corresponding decline in the need for commercial vehicles has contributed to a downturn in commercial vehicle production. Demand for commercial vehicles depends to some extent on economic and other conditions in a given market and the introduction of new vehicles and technologies.  The yearly demand for commercial vehicles may increase or decrease more than overall gross domestic product in markets we serve. Downturns historically have had a material adverse effect on our business. If unit production of commercial vehicles declines in the future it may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Conversely, upswings in the global economy may result in a sharp acceleration in commercial vehicle production.  A sharp acceleration in commercial vehicle production may adversely affect our ability to convert the incremental revenue into operating income efficiently.. Our operating results, revenues and expenses may fluctuate significantly from quarter-to-quarter or year-to-year, which could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.. 13. Table of Contents. Our operating results, revenues and expenses have in the past varied and may in the future vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter or year-to-year. These fluctuations could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.. Our operating results may fluctuate as a result of these and other events and factors:. • the size, timing, volume and execution of significant orders and shipments;. • changes in the terms of our sales contracts;. • the timing of new product announcements by us and our competitors;. • changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors;. • market acceptance of new and enhanced products;. • announcement of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors;. • the length of our sales cycles;. • conditions in the commercial vehicle industry;. • changes in our operating expenses;. • personnel changes;. • new business acquisitions;. • uncertainty in geographic regions;. • cyber-attacks;. • currency and interest rate fluctuations;. • uncertainty with respect to the North American Free Trade Agreement;. • union actions; and. • seasonal factors.. We base our operating expense budgets in large part on expected revenue trends. However, certain of our expenses are relatively fixed and as such we may be unable to adjust expenses quickly enough to offset any unexpected revenue shortfall. Accordingly, any significant change in revenue may cause significant variation in operating results in any quarter or year.. It is possible that in one or more future quarters or years, our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors and may result in changes in analysts' estimates. In such events, the trading price of our common stock may be adversely affected.. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been the subject of securities class action litigation. If we become involved in securities class action litigation in the future, it could result in substantial costs and diversion of management attention and resources, thus harming our business.. Our common stock has historically had a low trading volume and, as a result, any sale of a significant number of shares may depress the trading price of our stock; shareholders may be unable to sell their shares above the purchase price.. Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol \"CVGI.\" The trading volume of our common stock has historically been limited as compared to common stock of a seasoned issuer that has a large and steady volume of trading activity that will generally support continuous sales without an adverse effect on share prices. Because of the limited trading volume, holders of our securities may not be able to sell quickly any significant number of such shares, and any attempted sale of a large number of our shares may have a material adverse impact on the price of our common stock. Additionally, because of the limited number of shares being traded, the price per share is subject to volatility and may continue to be subject to rapid price swings in the future that may result in shareholders' inability to sell their common stock at or above purchase price.. We incur restructuring and impairment charges periodically as we continue to evaluate our portfolio of assets and identify opportunities to restructure our business in an effort to optimize our cost structure.. As we continue to evaluate our manufacturing footprint to improve our cost structure and remove excess, underperforming assets, or assets that no longer fit our goals, we incur restructuring charges periodically to close facilities, such as, lease termination charges, severance charges and impairment charges of leasehold improvements and/or machinery and equipment.. Also, if we decide to close or consolidate facilities, we may face execution risks which could adversely affect our ability to serve our customers and could lead to loss of business adversely affecting our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We may be unable to successfully implement our business strategy and, as a result, our businesses and financial position and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. 14. Table of Contents. Our ability to achieve our business and financial objectives is subject to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. For example, we may not be successful in implementing our strategy if unforeseen factors emerge diminishing the expected growth in the commercial vehicle markets we supply, or we experience increased pressure on our margins. In addition, we may not succeed in integrating strategic acquisitions, and our pursuit of additional strategic acquisitions may lead to resource constraints, which could have a negative impact on our ability to meet customers' demands, thereby adversely affecting our relationships with those customers. As a result of such business or competitive factors, we may decide to alter or discontinue aspects of our business strategy and may adopt alternative or additional strategies. Any failure to successfully implement our business strategy could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and growth potential.. We are subject to certain risks associated with our foreign operations.. We have operations in the United Kingdom, Czech Republic, Ukraine, Belgium, China, Australia, Mexico and India, which accounted in the aggregate for approximately 26%, 25% and 23% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. There are certain risks inherent in our international business activities including, but not limited to:. • the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems;. • foreign customers, who may have longer payment cycles than customers in the U.S.;. • material foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations affecting our ability to match revenue received with costs paid in the same currency;. • tax rates in certain foreign countries, which may exceed those in the U.S., withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions, including restrictions on repatriation, on foreign earnings;. • intellectual property protection difficulties;. • general economic and political conditions, along with major differences in business culture and practices, including the challenges of dealing with business practices that may impact the company's compliance efforts, in countries where we operate;. • exposure to local social unrest, including any resultant acts of war, terrorism or similar events;. • the difficulties associated with managing a large organization spread throughout various countries; and. • complications in complying with a variety of laws and regulations related to doing business with and in foreign countries, some of which may conflict with U.S. law or may be vague or difficult to comply with.. Additionally, our international business activities are also subject to risks arising from violations of U.S. laws such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions, and various export control and trade embargo laws and regulations, including those which may require licenses or other authorizations for transactions relating to certain countries and/or with certain individuals identified by the U.S. government. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil and criminal penalties that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. As we continue to expand our business on a global basis, we are increasingly exposed to these risks. Our success will be dependent, in part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with foreign operations. These and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our international operations, business, financial condition and results of operations.. Significant changes to international trade regulations could adversely affect our results of operations.. Our business benefits from current free trade agreements and other duty preference programs, including the North American Free Trade Agreement (\"NAFTA\"). The Trump Administration has indicated that it may propose significant changes with respect to a variety of issues, including NAFTA, other international trade agreements, import and export regulations, and tariffs and customs duties, which have increased uncertainty regarding the future of existing international trade regulations. The imposition of tariffs on the products we manufacture and sell could have a material and adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, if the Trump Administration or Congress takes action to withdraw from or materially modify NAFTA, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. We have invested substantial resources in markets where we expect growth and we may be unable to timely alter our strategies should such expectations not be realized.. Our future growth is dependent in part on our making the right investments at the right time to support product development and manufacturing capacity in areas where we can support our customer base. We have identified the Asia-Pacific region, specifically China and India, as key markets likely to experience substantial growth in our market share, and accordingly have made and expect to continue to make substantial investments, both directly and through participation in various partnerships and joint ventures, in numerous manufacturing operations, technical centers and other infrastructure to support anticipated growth in those regions. If. 15. Table of Contents. we are unable to maintain, deepen existing and develop additional customer relationships in these regions, we may not only fail to realize expected rates of return on our existing investments, but we may incur losses on such investments and be unable to timely redeploy the invested capital to take advantage of other markets, potentially resulting in lost market share to our competitors. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in leveraging our capabilities into new markets and thus, in meeting the needs of these new customers and competing favorably in these new markets. Our results will also suffer if these regions do not grow as quickly as we anticipate.. We may be unable to complete strategic acquisitions or we may encounter unforeseen difficulties in integrating acquisitions.. We may pursue acquisition targets that will allow us to continue to expand into new geographic markets, add new customers, provide new products, manufacturing and service capabilities and increase penetration with existing customers. However, we expect to face competition for acquisition candidates, which may limit the number of our acquisition opportunities and may lead to higher acquisition prices. Moreover, acquisition of businesses may require additional debt and/or equity financing, perhaps resulting in additional leverage and/or shareholder dilution. The covenants relating to our debt instruments may further limit our ability to complete acquisitions. There can be no assurance we will find attractive acquisition candidates or successfully integrate acquired businesses into our existing business. If the expected synergies from acquisitions do not materialize or we fail to successfully integrate such new businesses into our existing businesses, our results of operations could also be materially and adversely affected.. The agreement governing our senior secured revolving credit facility and the agreement governing our senior secured term loan credit facility contain covenants that may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes in our business or to take certain actions. If we are unable to comply with these covenants, our business, results of operations and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected.. Our senior secured revolving and term loan credit facilities require us to maintain certain financial ratios and to comply with various operational and other covenants. If we do not comply with those covenants we would be precluded from borrowing under the revolving credit facility, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and liquidity. If we are unable to borrow under our revolving credit facility, we will need to meet our capital requirements using other sources; however, alternative sources of liquidity may not be available on acceptable terms. In addition, if we fail to comply with the covenants set forth in our credit facilities the lenders thereunder could declare an event of default and cause all amounts outstanding thereunder to be due and payable immediately. We cannot assure you that our assets or cash flow would be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding credit facilities or other debt instruments we may have in place from time to time, either upon maturity or if accelerated, upon an event of default, or that we would be able to refinance or restructure the payments on the credit facilities or such other debt instruments on acceptable terms.. In addition, the agreements governing the revolving and term loan credit facilities contain covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to:. • incur liens;. • incur or assume additional debt or guarantees or issue preferred stock;. • pay dividends or repurchases with respect to capital stock;. • prepay, or make redemptions and repurchases of, subordinated debt;. • make loans and investments;. • engage in mergers, acquisitions, asset sales, sale/leaseback transactions and transactions with affiliates;. • place restrictions on the ability of subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments to the issuer;. • change the business conducted by us or our subsidiaries; and. • amend the terms of subordinated debt.. Our substantial amount of indebtedness may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate our business, remain in compliance with debt covenants and make payments on our indebtedness.. The aggregate amount of our outstanding indebtedness was $172.8 million as of December 31, 2017. Our indebtedness, combined with our lease and other financial obligations and contractual commitments could have other important consequences to our stockholders, including:. • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, including the revolving credit facility and our other debt instruments, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including financial and other restrictive covenants, could result in an event of default under the revolving credit facility and the governing documents of our debt instruments;. 16. Table of Contents. • the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on or other amounts due in respect of our indebtedness;. • making us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions;. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes;. • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;. • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and. • limiting our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, or execution of our business strategy or other purposes.. Any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness depends on our ability to generate cash in the future. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt service and working capital requirements, we may need to seek additional financing or sell assets. This may make it more difficult for us to obtain financing on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. Without any such financing, we could be forced to sell assets to make up for any shortfall in our payment obligations under unfavorable circumstances. If necessary, we may not be able to sell assets quickly enough or for sufficient amounts to enable us to meet our obligations.. Economic conditions and disruptions in the credit and financial markets could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The financial markets experienced, in the not too distant past, a period of unprecedented turmoil, including the bankruptcy, restructuring or sale of certain financial institutions and the intervention of the U.S. federal government. Disruptions in the credit and financial markets may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition if our ability to borrow money to finance our operations were to be impaired. A crisis in the financial markets may also have a material adverse impact on the availability and cost of credit in the future. Our ability to pay our indebtedness will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by, among other things, prevailing economic conditions. Tightening of credit in financial markets may also adversely affect the ability of our customers to obtain financing for significant truck orders and the ability of our suppliers to provide us with sufficient raw materials for our products, either of which could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Our inability to compete effectively in the highly competitive commercial vehicle component supply industry could result in lower prices for our products, loss of market share and reduced gross margins, which could have an adverse effect on our revenues and operating results.. The commercial vehicle component supply industry is highly competitive. Some of our competitors are companies that are larger and have greater financial and other resources than we do. In some cases, we compete with divisions of our OEM customers. Our products primarily compete on the basis of price, breadth of product offerings, product quality, technical expertise and development capability, product delivery and product service. Increased competition may lead to price reductions resulting in reduced gross margins and loss of market share.. Current and future competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with others, foresee the course of market development more accurately than we do, develop products that are superior to our products, produce similar products at lower cost than we can, or adapt more quickly to new technologies, industry or customer requirements. By doing so, they may enhance their ability to meet the needs of our customers or potential future customers more competitively. These developments could limit our ability to obtain revenues from new customers or maintain existing revenues from our customer base. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors and our failure to do so may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. Our inability to successfully achieve operational efficiencies could result in the incurrence of additional costs and expenses that could adversely affect our reported earnings.. As part of our business strategy, we continuously seek ways to lower costs, improve manufacturing efficiencies and increase productivity in our existing operations and intend to apply this strategy to those operations acquired through acquisitions. We may be unsuccessful in achieving these objectives which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. Additionally, aspects of the data upon which the company's business strategy is based may be incomplete or unreliable, which could lead to errors in the strategy, which in turn could adversely affect the company's performance. Also, not all business strategy can be based on data, and to the extent that it is based on assumptions and judgments that are untested, then it could be unsound and thereby lead to performance below expectations.. 17. Table of Contents. We may be unable to successfully introduce new product and, as a result, our businesses and financial position and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. Product innovations have been and will continue to be a significant part of our business strategy. We believe it is important we continue to meet our customers' demands for product innovation, improvement and enhancement, including the continued development of new-generation products, and design improvements and innovations that improve the quality and efficiency of our products. However, such development will require us to continue to invest in research and development and sales and marketing. We are also subject to the risks generally associated with product development, including lack of market acceptance, delays in product development and failure of products to operate properly. We may, as a result of these factors, be unable to meaningfully focus on product innovation as a strategy and may therefore be unable to meet our customers' demands for product innovation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. Our products may be rendered less attractive by changes in competitive technologies, including the introduction of autonomous vehicles.. Changes in competitive technologies, including the introduction of autonomous vehicles, may render certain of our products less attractive. Our ability to anticipate changes in technology and to successfully develop and introduce new and enhanced products on a timely basis will be a significant factor in our ability to remain competitive. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve the technological advances that may be necessary for us to remain competitive. We are also subject to the risks generally associated with new product introductions and applications, including lack of market acceptance, delays in product development and failure of products to operate properly, all of which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and growth potential.. Our customer base is concentrated and the loss of business from a major customer or the discontinuation of particular commercial vehicle platforms could reduce our revenues.. Sales to A.B. Volvo, Daimler Truck and PACCAR accounted for approximately 17%, 16% and 10%, respectively, of our revenue in 2017, and our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 75% of our revenue in 2017. Even though we may be selected as the supplier of a product by an OEM for a particular vehicle, our OEM customers issue blanket purchase orders, which generally provide for the supply of that customer's annual requirements for that vehicle, rather than for a specific number of our products. If the OEM's requirements are less than estimated, the number of products we sell to that OEM will be accordingly reduced. In addition, the OEM may terminate its purchase orders with us at any time. The loss of any of our largest customers or the loss of significant business from any of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our profitability could be adversely affected if the actual production volumes for our customers' vehicles are significantly lower than expected.. We incur costs and make capital expenditures based in part upon estimates of production volumes for our customers' vehicles. While we attempt to establish a price for our components and systems that will compensate for variances in production volumes, if the actual production of these vehicles is significantly less than anticipated, our gross margin on these products would be adversely affected. We enter into agreements with our customers at the beginning of a given platform's life to supply products for that platform. Once we enter into such agreements, fulfillment of the supply requirements is our obligation for the entire production life of the platform, with terms generally ranging from five to seven years, and we have somewhat limited provisions to terminate such contracts. We may become committed to supply products to our customers at selling prices that are not sufficient to cover the direct cost to produce such products. We cannot predict our customers' demands for our products. If customers representing a significant amount of our revenues were to purchase materially lower volumes than expected, or if we are unable to keep our commitment under the agreements, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our major OEM customers may exert significant influence over us.. The commercial vehicle component supply industry has traditionally been highly fragmented and serves a limited number of large OEMs. As a result, OEMs have historically had a significant amount of leverage over their outside suppliers. Generally, our contracts with major OEM customers provide for an annual productivity cost reduction. Historically, we have been able to generally mitigate these customer-imposed cost reduction requirements through product design changes, increased productivity and similar programs with our suppliers. However, if we are unable to generate sufficient production cost savings in the future to offset these cost reductions, our gross margin and profitability would be adversely affected. Additionally, we generally do not have clauses in our customer agreements that guarantee that we will recoup the design and development costs that we incurred to develop a product.. 18. Table of Contents. In other cases, we share the design costs with the customer and thereby have some risk that not all the costs will be covered if the project does not go forward or if it is not as profitable as expected.. In addition, changes in OEMs' purchasing policies or payment practices could have an adverse effect on our business. Furthermore, due to the cost focus of our major customers, we have been, and expect to continue to be, requested to reduce prices as part of our initial business quotations and over the life of vehicle platforms we have been awarded. We cannot be certain that we will be able to generate cost savings and operational improvements in the future that are sufficient to offset price reductions requested by existing customers and necessary to win additional business.. Demand for our products could also be materially reduced if our customers vertically integrate their operations in a significant manner, which would have a material and adverse impact on our business and results of operations.. If we are unable to obtain raw materials at reasonable prices, it could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition.. Numerous raw materials are used in the manufacture of our products. Steel, aluminum, petroleum-based products, copper, resin, foam, fabrics, wire and wire components account for the most significant portion of our raw material costs. Although we currently maintain alternative sources for most raw materials, our business is subject to the risk of price increases and periodic delays in delivery. We may be assessed surcharges on certain purchases of steel, copper and other raw materials. If we are unable to purchase certain raw materials required for our operations for a significant period of time, our operations would be disrupted, and our results of operations would be adversely affected. In addition, if we are unable to pass on the increased costs of raw materials to our customers, this could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, in the past, we have experienced significant increases and fluctuations in raw materials pricing; and future changes in the prices of raw materials or utilities could have a material adverse impact on us without proportionate recovery from our customers.. We could experience disruption in our supply or delivery chain, which could cause one or more of our customers to halt or delay production.. We, as with other component manufactures in the commercial vehicle industry, sometimes ship products to the customers throughout the world so they are delivered on a \"just-in-time\" basis in order to maintain low inventory levels. Our suppliers (external suppliers as well as our own production sites) also sometimes use a similar method. This just-in-time method makes the logistics supply chain in our industry very complex and very vulnerable to disruptions.. The potential loss of one of our suppliers or our own production sites could be caused by a myriad of potential problems, such as closures of one of our own or one of our suppliers' plants or critical manufacturing lines due to strikes, mechanical breakdowns, electrical outages, fires, explosions, political upheaval, as well as logistical complications due to weather, volcanic eruptions, earthquakes, flooding or other natural disasters, mechanical failures, delayed customs processing and more. Additionally, as we expand in growth markets, the risk for such disruptions is heightened. The lack of even a small single subcomponent necessary to manufacture one of our products, for whatever reason, could force us to cease production, possibly for a prolonged period. Similarly, a potential quality issue could force us to halt deliveries while we validate the products. Even where products are ready to be shipped or have been shipped, delays may arise before they reach our customer. Our customers may halt or delay their production for the same reason if one of their other suppliers fails to deliver necessary components. This may cause our customers to suspend their orders or instruct us to suspend delivery of our products, which may adversely affect our financial performance.. When we cease timely deliveries, we have to absorb our own costs for identifying and solving the root cause problem as well as expeditiously producing replacement components or products. Generally, we must also carry the costs associated with \"catching up,\" such as overtime and premium freight.. Additionally, if we are the cause for a customer being forced to halt production the customer may seek to recoup all of its losses and expenses from us. These losses and expenses could be very significant and may include consequential losses such as lost profits. Thus, any supply-chain disruption, however small, could potentially cause the complete shutdown of an assembly line of one of our customers, and any such shutdown could expose us to material claims of compensation. Where a customer halts production because of another supplier failing to deliver on time, we may not be fully compensated, if at all, and therefore our business and financial results could be materially and adversely affected.. Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information systems and expose us to liability, which could cause our business and reputation to suffer.. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, financial information, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners, and personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, in our data centers and on our networks. The secure processing, maintenance and. 19. Table of Contents. transmission of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfunction, malfeasance or other disruptions. Like most companies, our systems are under attack on a routine basis.  At times there are breaches of our security measures.  Breaches can and have, at times, compromised our networks and the associated applications and information residing on them.   Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, regulatory penalties, disrupt our operations and the services we provide to customers, damage our reputation, and cause a loss of confidence in our products and services, which could adversely affect our business and our results of operations.. Equipment failures, delays in deliveries or catastrophic loss at any of our facilities could lead to production or service curtailments or shutdowns.. We manufacture or assemble our products at facilities in North America, Europe, Asia and Australia. An interruption in production or service capabilities at any of these facilities as a result of equipment failure or other reasons could result in our inability to produce our products. In the event of a stoppage in production at any of our facilities, even if only temporary, or if we experience delays as a result of events that are beyond our control, delivery times to our customers could be severely affected. Any significant delay in deliveries to our customers could lead to increased returns or cancellations. Our facilities are also subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events such as fires, explosions, violent weather conditions or acts of God. We may also experience plant shutdowns or periods of reduced production as a result of equipment failure, delays in deliveries or catastrophic loss, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Volatility in the commercial vehicle market could result from manmade and natural disasters and other global business disruptions.. Natural disasters and other global business disruptions may disrupt the commercial vehicle supply chain and materially and adversely affect global production levels in our industry. The impact from disasters resulting in wide-spread destruction may not be immediately apparent. It is particularly difficult to assess the impact of catastrophic losses on our suppliers and end customers, who themselves may not fully understand the impact of such events on their businesses. Accordingly, there is no assurance our results of operations will not be materially affected as a result of the impact of future disasters.. If we are unable to recruit or retain senior management and other skilled personnel, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. Our operations depend to a large extent on the efforts of our senior management team as well as our ability to attract, train, integrate and retain highly skilled personnel. We seek to develop and retain an effective management team through the proper positioning of existing key employees and the addition of new management personnel where necessary. Retaining personnel with the right skills at competitive wages can be difficult in certain markets in which we are doing business, particularly those locations that are seeing much inbound investment and have highly mobile workforces. Additionally, attracting sufficiently well-educated and talented management, especially middle-management employees, in certain markets can be challenging.. We may not be able to retain our current senior management and other skilled personnel or attain similarly skilled personnel in the future. If we lose senior management or the services of our skilled workforce, or if we are unable to attract, train, integrate and retain the highly skilled personnel we need, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. We may be adversely impacted by labor strikes, work stoppages and other matters.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 56% of the employees in our North American operations were unionized, with the majority of union-represented personnel based in Mexico. We have experienced limited unionization efforts at certain of our other North American facilities from time to time. In addition, approximately 64% of our employees of our European, Asian and Australian operations were represented by a shop steward committee, which may limit our flexibility in our relationship with these employees. We may encounter future unionization efforts or other types of conflicts with labor unions or our employees.. Many of our OEM customers and their suppliers also have unionized work forces. Work stoppages or slow-downs experienced by OEMs or their other suppliers could result in slow-downs or closures of assembly plants where our products are included in assembled commercial vehicles. In the event that one or more of our customers or their suppliers experience a material work stoppage, such work stoppage could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage potential acquisition proposals, could delay, deter or prevent a change in control and could limit the price certain investors might be willing to pay for our stock.. 20. Table of Contents. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may inhibit changes in control of our company not approved by our board of directors. These provisions include:. • a prohibition on stockholder action through written consents;. • a requirement that special meetings of stockholders be called only by the board of directors;. • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and director nominations;. • limitations on the ability of stockholders to amend, alter or repeal the by-laws; and. • the authority of the board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock and common stock with such terms as the board of directors may determine.. We are also afforded the protections of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which would prevent us from engaging in a business combination with a person who becomes a 15% or greater stockholder for a period of three years from the date such person acquired such status unless certain board or stockholder approvals were obtained. These provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock.. Our earnings may be adversely affected by changes to the carrying values of our tangible and intangible assets as a result of recording any impairment charges deemed necessary.. We are required to perform impairment tests whenever events and circumstances indicate the carrying value of certain assets may not be recoverable. Significant or unanticipated changes in circumstances, such as the general economic environment, changes or downturns in our industry as a whole, termination of any of our customer contracts, restructuring efforts and general workforce reductions, may result in a charge for impairment that can materially and adversely affect our reported net income and our stockholders' equity.. We have taken, are taking, and may take future restructuring actions to realign and resize our production capacity and cost structure to meet current and projected operational and market requirements. Charges related to these actions or any further restructuring actions may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. There can be no assurance that any current or future restructuring will be completed as planned or achieve the desired results. The failure to complete restructuring as planned could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.. We have established and may establish in the future valuation allowances on deferred tax assets. These changes may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position.. Additionally, from time to time in the past, we have recorded asset impairment losses relating to specific plants and operations. Generally, we record asset impairment losses when we determine that our estimates of the future undiscounted cash flows from an operation will not be sufficient to recover the carrying value of that facility's building, fixed assets and production tooling. For goodwill, we perform a qualitative assessment of whether it is more likely than not that the reporting unit's fair value is less than its carrying amount. If the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, we compare its implied fair value of goodwill to its carrying amount. If the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, the reporting unit would recognize an impairment loss for that excess amount. There can be no assurance that we will not incur such charges in the future as changes in economic or operating conditions impacting the estimates and assumptions could result in additional impairment. Any future impairments may materially and adversely affect our results of operations.. Tax legislation initiatives or challenges to our tax positions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We are a multinational corporation with operations in the United States and international jurisdictions. As such, we are subject to the tax laws and regulations of the U.S. federal, state and local governments and various international jurisdictions. From time to time, various legislative initiatives may be proposed that could adversely affect our tax positions. There can be no assurance that our effective tax rate or tax payments will not be adversely affected by these initiatives. In addition, U.S. federal, state and local, as well as international, tax laws and regulations are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. There can be no assurance that our tax position will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in any such challenge.. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (\"U.S. Tax Reform\") was signed into law. The U.S. Tax Reform significantly changes how the U.S. taxes corporations. The U.S. Tax Reform requires complex computations to be performed that were not previously required in U.S. tax law, judgments to be made in interpretation of the provisions of the U.S. Tax Reform and significant estimates in calculations. The Internal Revenue Service and other regulatory bodies could interpret or issue guidance on how provisions of the U.S. Tax Reform will be applied or otherwise administered that is different from our interpretation. As we complete our analysis of the U.S. Tax Reform, collect and prepare necessary data, and interpret any additional guidance, we. 21. Table of Contents. may make adjustments to provisional amounts we have recorded that may materially impact our Consolidated Statement of Operations in the period in which the adjustments are made.. The geographic profile of our taxable income could adversely impact our tax provision and therefore our results of operations.. Our future tax provision could be adversely affected by the geographic profile of our taxable income and by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. Our results could be materially impacted by significant changes in our effective tax rate. Additionally, any changes to manufacturing activities could result in significant changes to our effective tax rate related to products manufactured either in the United States or in international jurisdictions. If the United States or another international jurisdiction implements a tax change related to products manufactured in a particular jurisdiction where we do business, our results could be materially and adversely affected.. Exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations on cross border transactions and translation of local currency results into United States dollars could materially impact our results of operations.. Cross border transactions, both with external parties and intercompany relationships, result in increased exposure to foreign currency fluctuations. The strengthening or weakening of the United States dollar may result in favorable or unfavorable foreign currency translation effects in as much as the results of our foreign locations are translated into United States dollars. This could materially impact our results of operations.. Litigation against us could be costly and time consuming to defend, as a result, our businesses and financial position could be materially and adversely affected.. We are regularly subject to legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business, such as workers' compensation claims, Occupational Safety and Health Administration investigations, employment disputes, unfair labor practice charges, examination by the Internal Revenue Service, customer and supplier disputes,  contractual disputes, intellectual property disputes, environmental claims and product liability claims arising out of the conduct of our business. Litigation may result in substantial costs and may divert management's attention and resources from the operation of our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. We have only limited protection for our proprietary rights in our intellectual property, which makes it difficult to prevent third parties from infringing upon our rights.. Our success depends to a certain degree on our ability to protect our intellectual property and to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties. While we have been issued patents and have registered trademarks with respect to many of our products, our competitors could independently develop similar or superior products or technologies, duplicate our designs, trademarks, processes or other intellectual property or design around any processes or designs on which we have or may obtain patents or trademark protection. In addition, it is possible third parties may have or acquire licenses for other technology or designs that we may use or desire to use, requiring us to acquire licenses to, or to contest the validity of, such patents or trademarks of third parties. Such licenses may not be made available to us on acceptable terms, if at all, or we may not prevail in contesting the validity of third party rights.. In addition to patent and trademark protection, we also protect trade secrets, \"know-how\" and other confidential information against unauthorized use or disclosure by persons who have access to them, such as our employees and others, through contractual arrangements. These arrangements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other confidential information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure. If we are unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies, trade secrets, know-how, or other confidential information, our revenues could be materially and adversely affected.. As we diversify and globalize our geographic footprint, we may encounter laws and practices in emerging markets that are not as stringent or enforceable as those present in developed markets, and thus incur a higher risk of intellectual property infringement, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.. We may be subject to product liability claims, recalls or warranty claims, which could be expensive, damage our reputation and result in a diversion of management resources.. As a supplier of products and systems to commercial and construction vehicle OEMs and markets, we face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that our products, or the equipment into which our products are incorporated, malfunction and result in personal injury or death. Product liability claims could result in significant losses as a result of expenses incurred in defending claims or the award of damages.. 22. Table of Contents. In addition, we may be required to participate in recalls involving systems or components sold by us if any prove to be defective, or we may voluntarily initiate a recall or make payments related to such claims as a result of various industry or business practices or the need to maintain good customer relationships. Such a recall would result in a diversion of management resources. While we maintain product liability insurance generally with a self-insured retention amount, we cannot assure you that it will be sufficient to cover all product liability claims, that such claims will not exceed our insurance coverage limits or that such insurance will continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Any product liability claim brought against us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. We warrant the workmanship and materials of many of our products under limited warranties and have entered into warranty agreements with certain OEMs that warranty certain of our products in the hands of these OEMs' customers, in some cases for as long as seven years. From time to time, we receive product warranty claims from our customers, pursuant to which we may be required to bear costs of repair or replacement of certain of our products. Accordingly, we are subject to risk of warranty claims in the event that our products do not conform to our customers' specifications or, in some cases in the event that our products do not conform to their customers' expectations. It is possible for warranty claims to result in costly product recalls, significant repair costs and damage to our reputation, all of which would materially and adversely affect our results of operations.. Our products may be susceptible to claims by third parties that our products infringe upon their proprietary rights.. As the number of products in our target markets increases and the functionality of these products further overlaps, we may become increasingly subject to claims by a third party that our technology infringes such party's proprietary rights. Regardless of their merit, any such claims could be time consuming and expensive to defend, may divert management's attention and resources, could cause product shipment delays and could require us to enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements. If successful, a claim of infringement against us and our inability to license the infringed or similar technology and/or product could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. Our businesses are subject to statutory environmental and safety regulations in multiple jurisdictions, and the impact of any changes in regulation and/or the violation of any applicable laws and regulations by our businesses could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to foreign, federal, state, and local laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment and occupational health and safety, including laws regulating air emissions, wastewater discharges, generation, storage, handling, use and transportation of hazardous materials; the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the soil, ground or air; and the health and safety of our colleagues. We are also required to obtain permits from governmental authorities for certain of our operations. We cannot assure you that we are, or have been, in complete compliance with such environmental and safety laws, and regulations. Certain of our operations generate hazardous substances and wastes. If a release of such substances or wastes occurs at or from our properties, or at or from any offsite disposal location to which substances or wastes from our current or former operations were taken, or if contamination is discovered at any of our current or former properties, we may be held liable for the costs of cleanup and for any other response by governmental authorities or private parties, together with any associated fines, penalties or damages. In most jurisdictions, this liability would arise whether or not we had complied with environmental laws governing the handling of hazardous substances or wastes.. Several of our facilities are either certified as, or are in the process of being certified as ISO 9001, 14000, 14001 or TS16949 (the international environmental management standard) compliant or are developing similar environmental management systems. We have made, and will continue to make, capital expenditures to implement such environmental programs and comply with environmental requirements.. The environmental laws to which we are subject have become more stringent over time, and we could incur material costs or expenses in the future to comply with environmental laws. If we violate or fail to comply with these laws and regulations or do not have the requisite permits, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. In some instances, such a fine or sanction could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We may be adversely affected by the impact of government regulations on our OEM customers.. Although the products we manufacture and supply to commercial vehicle OEMs are not subject to significant government regulation, our business is indirectly impacted by the extensive governmental regulation applicable to commercial vehicle OEMs. These regulations primarily relate to emissions and noise standards imposed by the EPA, state regulatory agencies in North America, such as CARB, and other regulatory agencies around the world. Commercial vehicle OEMs are also subject to the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act and Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards promulgated by NHTSA in the U.S. Changes in emission standards and other proposed governmental regulations could impact the demand for commercial vehicles and, as a result, indirectly impact our operations. For example, new emission standards for truck engines used in Class 5 to 8 trucks imposed by the EPA and CARB became effective in 2010. In 2011, the EPA and NHTSA adopted a program to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and improve. 23. Table of Contents. the fuel efficiency of medium-and heavy-duty vehicles. These standards are anticipated to phase in with increasing stringency in each model year from 2014 to 2018. To the extent that current or future governmental regulation has a negative impact on the demand for commercial vehicles, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected."
