[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. The following is a cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and assumptions that we believe are significant to our business. In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following are some of the important factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we believe could make our results differ materially from those described in any forward-looking statements. It is impossible to predict or identify all such factors and, as a result, you should not consider the following factors to be a complete discussion of risks, uncertainties and assumptions.. Competitive Risks. Our business is dependent on capital spending for data and communication networks, and reductions in such capital spending could adversely affect our business.. Our performance is dependent on capital spending for constructing, rebuilding, maintaining or upgrading data and communication networks, which can be volatile and difficult to forecast. Capital spending in the communications industry is cyclical and can be curtailed or deferred on short notice. A variety of factors affect the timing and amount of capital spending in the communications industry including: competing technologies; general economic conditions; seasonality of outside deployments; timing and adoption of the global rollout of new technologies; customer specific financial or general market conditions; changes in customer preferences or requirements; availability and cost of capital; governmental regulation; demands for network services; competitive pressures, including pricing pressures; acceptance of new services offered by our customers; industry consolidation; and real or perceived trends or uncertainties in these factors. As a result of these factors, we may not be able to maintain or increase our sales in the future, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.. A substantial portion of our business is derived from a limited number of key customers and channel partners.. Our customer base includes direct customers, original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and channel partners, which include distributors, system integrators and value-added resellers. We derived 24% of our 2017 consolidated net sales from our top three customers. Our largest customer, Anixter International Inc., accounted for 11% of our 2017 consolidated net sales. The concentration of our net sales among these key customers subjects us to a variety of risks including:. •  lower sales resulting from the loss of one or more of our key customers;. •  less efficient operations resulting in higher costs from an inability to accurately forecast and plan for volatile spending patterns of key customers;. •  renegotiations of agreements with key customers resulting in materially less favorable terms;. •  financial difficulties experienced by one or more of our key customers, resulting in reduced purchases of our products and/or delays or difficulties in collecting accounts receivable balances; and. •  reductions in inventory levels held by channel partners and OEMs, which may be unrelated to purchasing trends by end customers.. We generally have no minimum purchase commitments with any of our distributors, system integrators, value-added resellers, wireless operators or OEM customers, and our contracts with these parties do not prohibit them from purchasing or offering products or services that compete with ours. Although we maintain long-term relationships with these parties and have not historically lost key customers, we have experienced variability in the level of purchases by our key customers. Any significant reduction in sales to these customers, including as a result of the inability or unwillingness of these customers to continue purchasing our products, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 17. We face competitive pressures with respect to all of our major product groups.. Competition in our industry depends on a number of factors, including innovative product and service solution offerings, the ability to adapt to changing markets and customer requirements, quality and timing of the introduction of new products and services, customer service, pricing, and speed of delivery. In each of our major product groups, we compete with a substantial number of foreign and domestic companies, some of which have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources or lower operating costs. They may also have broader product lines and market focus. This gives many of these enterprises a competitive advantage to withstand any significant reduction in capital spending by customers in our markets over the long term. Further, our industry is consolidating, and the combination of any of our competitors could further increase these advantages and result in competitors with broader market presence.. Some competitors may also be able to bundle their products and services together to meet the needs of a particular customer and may be capable of delivering more complete solutions than we are able to provide which may cause us to lose sales opportunities and revenue. Competitors' actions, such as price reductions or the introduction of new innovative products and services, and the use of exclusively price driven auctions by customers have caused lost sales opportunities in the past and may cause us to lose sales opportunities in the future. The rapid technological changes occurring in the communications industry could also lead to the entry of new competitors against whom we may not be able to compete successfully. In addition, if any of our competitors' products or technologies were to become the industry standard, our business would be negatively affected. Changes in trade policies could decrease the price competitiveness of our products and/or increase our operating costs. Specifically, the renegotiation or cancellation of free trade agreements with countries in which we operate internationally, including the North American Free Trade Agreement, could negatively impact us.. We cannot assure you that we will continue to compete successfully with our existing competitors or with new competitors. If we are unable to compete in any of our markets at the same level as we have in the past or are forced to reduce the prices of our products in order to continue to be competitive, our operating results, financial condition and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.. Changes to the regulatory environment in which our customers operate may negatively impact our business.. The telecommunications and cable television industries are subject to significant and changing federal and state regulation, both in the United States (U.S.) and other countries. We have benefited from government programs that encourage spending on initiatives that utilize our products. Changes to the way in which internet service providers are regulated, changes in government programs in our industry or uncertainty regarding future changes could adversely impact our customers' decisions regarding capital spending, which could decrease demand for our products.. Operational Risks. Our future success depends on our ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in technology and customer preferences and develop, implement and market innovative solutions.. Many of our markets are characterized by advances in information processing and communications capabilities that require increased transmission speeds and greater bandwidth. These advances require significant investments in research and development in order to improve the capabilities of our products and services and develop new offerings or solutions that will meet the needs of our customers. There can be no assurance that our investments in research and development will yield marketable product innovations.. We may not be successful in our ongoing innovation efforts if, among other things, our products and services are not cost effective; brought to market in a timely manner; compliant with evolving industry standards; accepted in the market; or recognized as meeting customer requirements. We could experience a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition if we are not successful in our ongoing innovation efforts.. We must also anticipate and respond to customer preferences by developing processes to understand trends and expanding investment in our digital platform.  Failure to continually respond to changing customer preferences, maintain a positive customer experience or maintain an adequate digital platform could have a material adverse impact on our business through lost sales opportunities.. 18. As our products become more complex and customer preferences continue to change, we may encounter difficulties in meeting customer performance, service and delivery expectations, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. If we do not stay current with product life cycle developments, our business may suffer.. A significant portion of our revenues is dependent on the commercial deployment of technologies based on 3G and 4G wireless communications equipment and products. If we are not able to support our customers in an effective and cost-efficient manner as they advance from older generation networks or as they expand the capacity of their networks, our business will suffer. If we do not have competitively priced, market-accepted products available to meet our customers' planned roll-out of 5G wireless communications systems, we may miss a significant opportunity and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. In addition, a significant portion of our revenue is dependent on the copper enterprise business. We could experience unfavorable financial impacts if this business erodes at a rate faster than our current forecasts and we are unable to gain market acceptance of new or replacement fiber-based solutions for our customers.. If our products, including material purchased from our suppliers, or service offerings have quality or performance issues, our business may suffer.. Our business depends on delivering products and services of consistently high quality. Many of our solutions are highly complex and testing procedures used by us and our customers are limited to evaluating them under likely and foreseeable failure scenarios. For various reasons, once deployed, our products may fail to perform as expected. Performance issues could result from faulty design, defective raw materials or components purchased from suppliers, problems in manufacturing or installation errors. We have experienced such performance issues in the past and remain exposed to such performance issues in the future. In some cases, recall of some or all affected products, product redesigns or additional capital expenditures may be required to correct a defect. In addition, we generally offer warranties on most products, the terms and conditions of which depend upon the product subject to the warranty. In some cases, we indemnify our customers against damages or losses that might arise from certain claims relating to our products and services. Future claims may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Any significant or systemic product or service failure could also result in lost future sales as well as reputational damage.. Our business depends on effective management information systems.. We rely on effective management information systems for critical business operations, to support strategic business decisions and to maintain a competitive edge in the marketplace. We rely on our enterprise resource planning systems to support such critical business operations as processing sales orders and invoicing; manufacturing; shipping; inventory control; purchasing and supply chain management; human resources; and financial reporting. We also rely on management information systems to produce information for business decision-making and planning and to support e-commerce activities. Failure to maintain an adequate digital platform to support e-commerce activities could have a material adverse impact on our business through lost sales opportunities.. If we are unable to maintain our management information systems, including our IT infrastructure, to support critical business operations and to produce information for business decision-making activities, we could experience a material adverse impact on our business or an inability to timely and accurately report our financial results.. 19. Cyber-security incidents, including data security breaches, ransomware or computer viruses, could harm our business by exposing us to various liabilities, disrupting our delivery of products and services and damaging our reputation.. We rely extensively on our management information technology systems and those of third parties to operate our business and store proprietary information about our products and intellectual property. Additionally, we and others on our behalf store \"personally identifiable information\" with respect to employees, vendors, customers and others. As the recent rise in cyber-security incidents around the world indicates, all management information technology systems are vulnerable. Despite the security controls we have in place, our facilities, systems and procedures, and those of our third-party service providers, are at risk to security breaches, acts of vandalism, ransomware, software viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors or other similar events. In particular, unauthorized access to our computer systems or stored data could result in the theft or improper disclosure of proprietary, confidential or sensitive information, the deletion or modification of records or interruptions in our operations. Any such events could subject us to civil and criminal penalties; expose us to liabilities to our customers, employees, vendors, third parties or governmental authorities; allow others to unfairly compete with us; disrupt our delivery of products and services; and have a negative impact on our reputation, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. There has been an increase in the adoption of laws and regulations in the U.S., Europe and elsewhere imposing requirements for the handling of personal data, as well as requirements for remediation actions and financial penalties for noncompliance. In particular, we will be subject to the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which is scheduled to go into effect in May 2018. While we expect to be fully compliant, our efforts are also dependent on third parties and we may be unable to ensure full compliance. We employ a variety of security breach countermeasures and security controls that we believe will achieve compliance, but we cannot guarantee that all breach attempts can be successfully thwarted by these measures as the sophistication of attacks increases. Noncompliance with laws and regulations related to cyber-security breaches could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. If our integrated global manufacturing operations suffer production or shipping delays, we may have difficulty meeting customer demands.. Disruption of our ability to produce at or distribute from our facilities due to failure of our manufacturing infrastructure, information technology outage, labor disturbances, fire, electrical outage, natural disaster, acts of violence or terrorism, shipping interruptions or some other catastrophic event could adversely affect our ability to manufacture products at our other manufacturing facilities in a cost-effective and timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Capacity constraints with respect to our internal facilities and/or existing or new contract manufacturers could have an adverse impact on our business.. We internally produce, both domestically and internationally, a portion of the components used in our finished products. We also rely on unaffiliated contract manufacturers, both domestically and internationally, to produce certain products or key components of products. If we do not have sufficient production capacity, either through our internal facilities or independent contract manufacturers, or if we cannot ramp up capacity for complex products fast enough to meet customer demand, we may experience lost sales opportunities, lost market share and customer relations problems, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 20. Supply Chain Risks. Our dependence on commodities subjects us to cost volatility and potential availability constraints.. Our profitability may be materially affected by changes in the market price and availability of certain raw materials, most of which are linked to the commodity markets. The principal raw materials and components we purchase are made of metals such as copper, steel, aluminum or brass; plastics and other polymers; and optical fiber. Fabricated copper, steel and aluminum are used in the production of coaxial and twisted pair cables and polymers are used to insulate and protect cables. Prices for copper, steel, aluminum, fluoropolymers and certain other polymers derived from oil and natural gas have experienced significant volatility as a result of changes in the levels of global demand, supply disruptions and other factors. As a result, we have adjusted our prices for certain products and may have to adjust prices again in the future. Delays in implementing price increases or a failure to achieve market acceptance of price increases has in the past and could in the future have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. In an environment of falling commodities prices, we may be unable to sell higher-cost inventory before implementing price decreases, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are dependent on a limited number of key suppliers for certain raw materials and components.. We are dependent on a limited number of key suppliers for certain of our raw material and component purchases, including certain polymers, copper rod, copper and aluminum tapes, fine aluminum wire, steel wire, optical fiber, circuit boards and other electronic components.. Our key suppliers have experienced in the past, and could experience in the future, production, operational or financial difficulties, or there may be global shortages of certain raw materials or components we use. Our inability to find sufficient sources of supply on reasonable terms could impact our ability to manufacture products in a cost-effective manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our gross margin and results of operations.. We also source many of our components from international markets. Any changes in the laws and policies of the U.S. or other countries affecting trade is a risk to us. To the extent there are unfavorable changes imposed by the U.S. or other countries and/or retaliatory actions taken by trading partners, such as the addition of new tariffs or trade restrictions, we may experience material adverse impacts on earnings.. If our contract manufacturers encounter production, quality, financial or other difficulties, we may experience difficulty in meeting customer demands.. We rely on unaffiliated contract manufacturers, both domestically and internationally, to produce certain products or key components of products. If these contract manufacturers encounter production, quality, financial or other difficulties, including labor disturbances or geopolitical instability, and if acceptable alternative suppliers cannot be identified, we may encounter difficulty in meeting customer demands. Any such difficulties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial results, results of operations and cash flows.. Strategic Risks. We may not fully realize anticipated benefits from past or future acquisitions or investments in other companies.. We have completed a number of acquisitions and invested in other companies over recent years, including most significantly, the BNS business acquisition from TE Connectivity in 2015. There are significant challenges to integrating an acquired operation into our business, including, but not limited to: successfully managing the operations, manufacturing facilities and technology; integrating the sales organizations; maintaining and increasing the customer base; retaining key employees, suppliers and distributors; integrating management information systems, including enterprise resource planning systems; integrating inventory management and accounting activities; integrating research and development activities; and addressing operating losses that may exist related to individual markets, facilities or product lines. Although we expect to realize strategic, operational and financial benefits as a result of past or future acquisitions and investments, we cannot predict or guarantee whether and to what extent anticipated cost savings, synergies and growth prospects will be achieved.. 21. We anticipate that a portion of any future growth of our business may be accomplished by acquiring existing businesses, products or technologies. However, we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition opportunities or obtain any necessary financing on acceptable terms. We may spend time and money investigating and negotiating with potential acquisition or investment targets but not complete the transaction.. Any future acquisition could involve other risks, including the assumption of additional liabilities and expenses, issuances of debt, incurrence of transaction and integration costs and diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, and such acquisition may be dilutive to our financial results.. We may sell or discontinue one or more of our product lines, as a result of our evaluation of our products and markets.. We periodically evaluate our various product lines and may consider the divestiture or discontinuance of one or more of those product lines. Any such divestiture or discontinuance could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial position.. Divestitures of product lines have inherent risks, including the expense of selling the product line; the possibility that any anticipated sale will not occur; possible delays in closing any sale; the risk of lower-than-expected proceeds from the sale of the divested business; unexpected costs associated with the separation of the business to be sold from our management information and other operating systems; potential post-closing claims for indemnification; and potential loss of customers. Expected cost savings may also be difficult to achieve or maximize due to a fixed cost structure, and we may experience varying success in the timely reduction of fixed costs or transferring of liabilities previously associated with the divested or discontinued business.. Difficulties may be encountered in the realignment of manufacturing capacity and capabilities among our global manufacturing facilities that could adversely affect our ability to meet customer demand for our products.. We periodically realign manufacturing capacity among our global facilities in order to reduce costs by improving manufacturing efficiency and to strengthen our long-term competitive position. The implementation of these initiatives may include significant shifts of production capacity among facilities.. There are significant risks inherent in the implementation of these initiatives, including our failure to ensure the following: there is adequate inventory on hand or production capacity to meet customer demand while capacity is being shifted among facilities; there is no decrease in product quality as a result of shifting capacity; adequate raw material and other service providers are available to meet the needs at the new production locations; equipment can be successfully removed, transported and re-installed; and adequate supervisory, production and support personnel are available to accommodate the shifted production.. In the event manufacturing realignment initiatives are not successfully implemented, we could experience lost future sales and increased operating costs as well as customer relations problems, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We may need to undertake additional restructuring actions in the future.. We have previously recognized restructuring charges in response to slowdowns in demand for our products and in conjunction with implementation of initiatives to reduce costs and improve efficiency of our operations. Most recently, we have undertaken a number of initiatives to support the BNS integration which included the closure of certain domestic and international manufacturing facilities and various other workforce reductions. As a result of changes in business conditions and other developments, we may need to initiate additional restructuring actions that could result in workforce reductions and restructuring charges, which could be material.. 22. Financial Risks. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt and prevent us from meeting our obligations with respect to our indebtedness.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $4.4 billion of indebtedness on a consolidated basis. See Note 6 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional details of our indebtedness. We had no outstanding loans under our revolving credit facility and approximately $425.4 million in borrowing capacity. Our ability to borrow under our revolving credit facility depends, in part, on inventory, accounts receivable and other assets that fluctuate from time to time and may further depend on lenders' discretionary ability to impose reserves and availability blocks.. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could:. •  limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes;. •  require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our annual cash flow for the next several years to the payment of interest on our indebtedness;. •  expose us to the risk of increased interest rates as the interest cost on a significant portion of our indebtedness is subject to changes in interest rates;. •  place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to certain of our competitors who have less debt;. •  hinder our ability to adjust rapidly to changing market conditions;. •  limit our ability to secure adequate bank financing in the future with reasonable terms and conditions; and. •  increase our vulnerability to and limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, a potential downturn in general economic conditions or in one or more of our businesses.. In addition, the indentures and credit agreements governing our indebtedness contain affirmative and negative covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debts.. Despite current indebtedness levels and restrictive covenants, we may incur additional indebtedness that could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial financial leverage.. We may incur significant additional indebtedness in the future under the agreements governing our indebtedness. Although the indentures and the credit agreements governing our indebtedness contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of thresholds, qualifications and exceptions, and the additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. Additionally, these restrictions permit us to incur obligations that, although preferential to our common stock in terms of payment, do not constitute indebtedness.. In addition, if new debt is added or we buy back stock or pay dividends, the risks we face as a result of our leverage would increase.. 23. To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash and our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control.. Our operations are conducted through our global subsidiaries and our ability to make cash payments on our indebtedness will depend on the earnings and the distribution of funds from our subsidiaries. Certain of our subsidiaries may have limitations or restrictions on paying dividends and otherwise transferring assets to us. Our ability to make cash payments on and to refinance our indebtedness will depend upon our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. We might not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities or transfer sufficient funds from our subsidiaries to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness.. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or are otherwise unable to obtain funds necessary to meet required payments of principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness or if we fail to comply with the various covenants in the instruments governing our indebtedness and we are unable to obtain waivers from the required lenders, we could be in default under the terms of the agreements governing such indebtedness. In the event of such default, the holders of our indebtedness could elect to declare all the funds borrowed to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest. The lenders under our revolving credit facility could elect to terminate their commitments, cease making further loans and institute foreclosure proceedings against our assets. As a result, we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.. We may need to recognize additional impairment charges related to goodwill, identified intangible assets and fixed assets.. We have substantial balances of goodwill and identified intangible assets. We are required to test goodwill for possible impairment on the same date each year and on an interim basis if there are indicators of a possible impairment. We are also required to evaluate identified intangible assets and fixed assets for impairment if there are indicators of a possible impairment.. In the past, due to revisions in financial performance outlooks or deterioration in certain markets, we have recognized significant impairment charges on our goodwill, identified intangible assets and fixed assets. In the future, we may determine, again, that one or more of our long-lived assets is impaired and additional impairment charges may be recognized that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We may experience significant variability in our quarterly or annual effective income tax rate.. We have a large and complex international tax profile and a significant level of foreign tax credit carryforwards in the U.S. and other carryforwards in various jurisdictions. Variability in the mix and profitability of domestic and international activities, identification and resolution of various tax uncertainties and the inability to realize foreign tax credits and other carryforwards included in deferred tax assets, among other matters, have impacted our effective income tax rate in the past and may impact our effective income tax rate in the future. The U.S. tax legislation enacted in late 2017 is complex and subject to future interpretation and regulations. Determining the ultimate impact on us will take time and require management judgment. In addition to the U.S. legislation, tax law changes in certain other countries have also impacted our effective income tax rate in the past and may impact our effective tax rate in the future. A significant increase in our quarterly or annual effective income tax rate could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.. We are commonly audited by various tax authorities, and some jurisdictions, both in the U.S. and abroad, have become more aggressive in their approach to audits and their enforcement of their applicable tax laws. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our financial statements in the period or periods for which that determination is made and on our overall effective income tax rate.. 24. Labor Related Risks. We may not be able to attract and retain key employees.. Our business depends upon our continued ability to hire and retain key employees. Effective succession planning is important to our long-term success. We depend on our senior management team and other key employees for strategic success. Some of our key employees have retired, announced their decision to retire or are at or near retirement age. Failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution.. Key employees include individuals in our sales force, operations management, engineers and skilled production workers at our operations around the world. Competition for skilled personnel and highly qualified managers in the industries in which we operate is intense. Our growth by acquisitions creates challenges in retaining employees. As the corporate culture evolves to incorporate new workforces, some employees may not find the new culture appealing. In addition, the pace of integration may cause retention issues with our workforce due to integration fatigue. Difficulties in obtaining or retaining employees with the necessary management, technical and financial skills needed to achieve our business objectives may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. As our workforce ages, we are challenged to find and attract a younger population to replace them. Younger generations are motivated by progression and opportunity which may be limited by our current employee population. Our growth potential may be limited if we fail to attract and retain competent employees or we are unable to sustain necessary employment levels long-term.. Labor unrest could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. While none of our U.S. employees are represented by unions, a significant part of our international employees are members of unions or subject to workers' councils or similar statutory arrangements. In addition, many of our direct and indirect customers and vendors have unionized workforces. Strikes, work stoppages or slowdowns experienced by us at our international locations or experienced by our customers or vendors could have a negative impact on us. Organizations responsible for shipping our products may also be impacted by labor disruptions. Any interruption in the delivery of our products could harm our reputation with our customers, reduce demand for our products, increase costs and have a material adverse effect on us.. We have obligations under our defined benefit employee benefit plans and may be required to make plan contributions in excess of current estimates.. At December 31, 2017, our net liability for pension and other postretirement benefits was $15.8 million (benefit obligations of $403.3 million and plan assets of $387.5 million). See Note 10 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Significant declines in the valuation of the assets and/or increases in the liabilities related to these obligations as a result of changes in actuarial estimates, asset performance, interest rates or benefit changes, among other assumptions, could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and/or results of operations.. 25. The amounts and timing of the contributions we expect to make to our defined benefit plans reflect a number of actuarial estimates and other assumptions. The actual amounts and timing of these contributions may differ materially from those presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If we elect to terminate one or more of these plans and settle the obligation through the purchase of annuities, we could incur a charge and/or be required to make additional contributions and such amounts could be material.. International Risks. Our significant international operations expose us to economic, political and other risks.. We have significant international sales, manufacturing and distribution operations. Our major international manufacturing and/or distribution facilities are located in Australia, Belgium, China, the Czech Republic, Germany, India, Ireland, Mexico, Singapore and the United Kingdom (U.K.). For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, international sales represented approximately 46%, 46% and 51%, respectively, of our consolidated net sales. In general, our international sales have lower gross margin percentages than our domestic sales. To the extent international sales represent a greater percentage of our revenue, our overall gross margin percentages may decline.. Our international sales, manufacturing and distribution operations are subject to the risks inherent in operating abroad, including, but not limited to, risks with respect to currency exchange rate fluctuations; economic and political destabilization; restrictive actions by foreign governments; wage inflation; nationalizations; the laws and policies of the U.S affecting trade, anti-bribery, foreign investment and loans; foreign tax laws, including the ability to recover amounts paid as value-added and similar taxes; potential restrictions on the repatriation of cash; reduced protection of intellectual property; longer customer payment cycles; compliance with local laws and regulations; armed conflict; regional violence; terrorism; shipping interruptions; and major health concerns (such as infectious diseases). A significant portion of our products sold in the U.S. are manufactured outside the U.S. We utilize lower-cost geographies for high labor content products while investing in largely automated plants in higher-cost regions close to customers. Most of our manufacturing employees are located in lower-cost geographies such as Mexico, China, India and the Czech Republic. To the extent there are changes in U.S. trade policies, such as significant increases in tariffs or duties for goods brought into the U.S., our competitive position may be adversely impacted and the resulting effect on our earnings could be material.. Risks related to fluctuations in foreign currency rates can impact our sales, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Our foreign currency risk exposure is mainly concentrated in Chinese yuan, euro, Czech koruna, Australian dollar, Indian rupee, Mexican peso and British pound. We manage our foreign currency rate risks through regular operating and financing activities and periodically use derivative financial instruments such as foreign exchange forward contracts. There can be no assurance that our risk management strategies will be effective or that the counterparties to our derivative contracts will be able to perform. In addition, foreign currency rates in many of the countries in which we operate have at times been extremely volatile and unpredictable. We may choose not to hedge or determine we are unable to effectively hedge the risks associated with this volatility. In such cases, we may experience declines in sales and adverse impacts on earnings and such changes could be material.. Our international operations expose us to increased challenges in complying with anti-corruption laws and regulations of the U.S. government and various other international jurisdictions.. We are required to comply with the laws and regulations of the U.S. government and various other international jurisdictions, and our failure to comply with these rules and regulations may expose us to significant liabilities. These laws and regulations may apply to companies, individual directors, officers, employees and agents, and may restrict our operations, trade practices, investment decisions and partnering activities. In particular, we are subject to U.S. and foreign anti-corruption laws and regulations, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and the UK Anti-Bribery Act. Violations of these legal requirements are punishable by criminal fines and imprisonment, civil penalties, disgorgement of profits, injunctions, debarment from government contracts as well as other remedial measures. We have established policies and procedures designed to assist us and our personnel in complying with applicable U.S. and international laws and regulations. However, our employees, subcontractors or channel partners could take actions that violate these requirements. In addition, some of the international jurisdictions in which we operate have elevated levels of corruption. As a result, we are exposed to an increased risk of violating anti-corruption laws. Violation of anti-corruption laws could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and such effects could be material.. 26. We are subject to governmental export and import controls that could subject us to liability or impair our ability to compete in international markets.. Certain of our products, including purchased components of such products, are subject to export controls and may be exported only with the required export license or through an export license exception. In addition, we are required to comply with certain U.S. and foreign sanctions and embargos. If we were to fail to comply with applicable export licensing, customs regulations, economic sanctions and other laws, we could be subject to substantial civil and criminal penalties, including fines for us, the incarceration of responsible employees and managers, and the possible loss of export or import privileges. In addition, if our distributors fail to obtain appropriate import, export or re-export licenses or permits, we may also be adversely affected through reputational harm and penalties. Obtaining the necessary export license for a particular sale may be time-consuming and may result in the delay or loss of sales opportunities. Furthermore, export control laws and economic sanctions prohibit the shipment of certain products to embargoed or sanctioned countries, governments and persons. While we train our employees to comply with these regulations, we cannot assure that a violation will not occur, whether knowingly or inadvertently. Any such shipment could have negative consequences including government investigations, penalties, fines, civil and criminal sanctions, and reputational harm. Any change in export or import regulations, economic sanctions or related legislation, shift in the enforcement or scope of existing regulations, or change in the countries, governments, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in our decreased ability to export or sell our products to existing or potential customers with international operations. Any decreased use of our products or limitation on our ability to export or sell our products could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and such effects could be material.. Litigation and Regulatory Risks. We may incur costs and may not be successful in protecting our intellectual property and in defending claims that we are infringing on the intellectual property of others.. We may encounter difficulties and significant costs in protecting our intellectual property rights or obtaining rights to additional intellectual property to permit us to continue or expand our business. Other companies, including some of our largest competitors, hold intellectual property rights in our industry and the intellectual property rights of others could inhibit our ability to introduce new products unless we secure necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms.. In the past, we have initiated litigation in order to enforce patents issued or licensed to us or to determine the scope and/or validity of a third party's patent or other proprietary rights and we may initiate similar litigation in the future. We also have been and may in the future be subject to lawsuits by third parties seeking to enforce their own intellectual property rights, including against certain of the products or intellectual property that we have acquired through acquisitions. Any such litigation, regardless of outcome, could be costly and could subject us to significant liabilities or require us to cease using proprietary third party technology and, consequently, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Such litigation can also be a significant distraction to management.. In certain markets, we may be required to address counterfeit versions of our products. We may incur significant costs in pursuing the originators of such counterfeit products and, if we are unsuccessful in eliminating them from the market, we may experience a reduction in the value of our products and/or a reduction in our net sales.. 27. Compliance with current and future environmental laws and potential environmental liabilities may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations governing, among other things, discharges to air and water, management of regulated materials, handling and disposal of solid and hazardous waste, and investigation and remediation of contaminated sites. In addition, we are subject to laws and regulations regarding the types of substances allowable in certain of our products and the handling of our products at the end of their useful life. Because of the nature of our business, we have incurred and will continue to incur costs relating to compliance with or liability under these environmental laws and regulations and these costs could be material. In addition, new laws and regulations, new or different interpretations of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new remediation or discharge requirements, could require us to incur costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.. Efforts to regulate emissions of greenhouse gases (GHGs), such as carbon dioxide, are underway in the U.S. and other countries which could increase the cost of raw materials, production processes and transportation of our products. If we are unable to comply with such regulations or sufficiently increase prices or otherwise reduce costs to offset the increased costs of compliance, GHG regulation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.. Certain environmental laws impose strict and in some circumstances joint and several liability on current or former owners or operators of a contaminated property, as well as companies that generated, disposed of or arranged for the disposal of hazardous substances at a contaminated property, for the costs of investigation and remediation of the contaminated property. Our present and past facilities have been in operation for many years and over that time, in the course of those operations, hazardous substances and wastes have been used, generated and occasionally disposed of at such facilities, and we have disposed of waste products either directly or through third parties at numerous disposal sites. Consequently, it has been necessary to undertake investigation and remediation projects at certain sites and we have been and may in the future be held responsible for a portion of the investigation and clean-up costs at these sites and our share of those costs may be material.. Stockholder Equity Risks. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, consequently, the ability of investors to achieve a return on their investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock.. We do not intend to declare and pay dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. The payment of future dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors; however, the indentures and the credit agreements governing our indebtedness place limitations on our ability to pay dividends. We currently intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth and reduce our debt and our Board of Directors may choose to provide returns to our stockholders through share repurchases. The success of an investment in our common stock will largely depend upon future appreciation in value, and there can be no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value.. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, as a result, depress the trading price of our common stock.. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our management that the stockholders of our company may deem advantageous. These provisions:. •  authorize 1,300,000,000 shares of common stock, which, to the extent unissued, could be issued by the Board of Directors, without stockholder approval, to increase the number of outstanding shares and to discourage a takeover attempt;. •  authorize the issuance, without stockholder approval, of blank check preferred stock that our Board of Directors could issue to increase the number of outstanding shares and to discourage a takeover attempt;. 28. •  grant to the Board of Directors the sole power to set the number of directors and to fill any vacancy on the Board of Directors;. •  limit the ability of stockholders to remove directors only \"for cause\" and require any such removal to be approved by holders of at least three-quarters of the outstanding shares of common stock;. •  prohibit our stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders;. •  prohibit stockholder action by written consent, which requires all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders;. •  provide that the Board of Directors is expressly authorized to adopt, or to alter or repeal our bylaws; establish advance notice and certain information requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings;. •  establish a classified Board of Directors, with three staggered terms; and. •  require the approval of holders of at least three-quarters of the outstanding shares of common stock to amend the bylaws and certain provisions of the certificate of incorporation.. These anti-takeover defenses could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company and may prevent our stockholders from receiving the benefit from any premium to the market price of our common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if the provisions are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for our stockholders to elect directors of their choosing and cause us to take corporate actions other than those our stockholders may desire.. Our business could be negatively impacted as a result of actions by activist stockholders or others.. Stockholder activism has been increasing in publicly traded companies in recent years and we are subject to the risks associated with such activism. Our business could be negatively affected as a result of stockholder activism, which could cause us to incur significant expense, hinder execution of our business strategy and impact the trading value of our securities. Additionally, stockholder activism could give rise to perceived uncertainties as to our future direction, adversely affect our relationships with key executives and business partners and make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified employees. Any of these impacts could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results.. 29"
