[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. These are not the only risks and uncertainties that we face. Our business, financial condition, operating results, and stock price can be materially and adversely affected by a number of factors, whether currently known or unknown, including, but not limited to, those described below. Any one or more of such factors could directly or indirectly cause our actual financial condition and operating results to vary materially from our past or anticipated future financial condition or operating results.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY. There is significant uncertainty in the healthcare industry, both as a result of recently enacted legislation and changing government regulation, which may have a material adverse impact on the businesses of our hospital clients and ultimately on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The healthcare industry is subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences that may affect the procurement processes and operation of healthcare facilities, including our hospital clients. During the past several years, the healthcare industry has been subject to increased legislation and regulation of, among other things, reimbursement rates, payment programs, information technology programs and certain capital expenditures (collectively, the \"Health Reform Laws\").. The Health Reform Laws contain various provisions which impact us and our clients. Some of these provisions have a positive impact, by expanding the use of electronic health records in certain federal programs, for example, while others, such as reductions in reimbursement for certain types of providers, have a negative impact due to fewer available resources. The continued increase in fraud and abuse penalties is expected to adversely affect participants in the healthcare sector, including us.. Among other things, the Health Reform Laws require nearly all individuals to have health insurance, provide for the expansion of Medicaid eligibility, mandate material changes to the delivery of healthcare services and reduce the reimbursement paid for such services in order to generate savings in the Medicare program. The Health Reform Laws also modify certain payment systems to encourage more cost-effective, quality-based care and a reduction of inefficiencies and waste, including through various tools to address fraud and abuse.. The Health Reform Laws will continue to affect hospitals differently depending upon the populations they serve and their payor mix. Our target market of community hospitals typically serve higher uninsured populations than larger urban hospitals and rely more heavily on Medicare and Medicaid for reimbursement. It remains to be seen whether the increase in the insured population for community hospitals will be sufficient to offset actual and proposed additional cuts in Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements contained in the Health Reform Laws.. The Health Reform Laws are leading to significant changes in the healthcare system, but the full impact of the legislation and of further statutory and regulatory actions to reform healthcare on our business is unknown. As a result, there can be no assurances that the legislation will not adversely impact either our operational results or the manner in which we operate our business. We believe some healthcare industry participants have reduced their investments or postponed investment decisions, including investments in our solutions and services.. Various legislators have announced that they intend to examine further proposals to reform certain aspects of the U.S. healthcare system. Healthcare providers may react to these proposals, and the uncertainty surrounding such proposals, by curtailing or deferring investments, including those for our systems and related services. Cost-containment measures instituted by healthcare providers as a result of regulatory reform or otherwise could result in a reduction in the allocation of capital funds. Such a reduction could have an adverse effect on our ability to sell our systems and related services. On the other hand, changes in the regulatory environment have increased and may continue to increase the needs of healthcare organizations for cost-effective data management and thereby enhance the overall market for healthcare management information systems. We cannot predict what effect, if any, such additional proposals or healthcare reforms might have on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. As existing regulations mature and become better defined, we anticipate that these regulations will continue to directly affect certain of our products and services, but we cannot fully predict the effect at this time. We have taken steps to modify our products, services and internal practices as necessary to facilitate our compliance with the regulations, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so in a timely or complete manner. Achieving compliance with these regulations could be costly and distract management's attention and divert other company resources, and any noncompliance by us could result in civil and criminal penalties.. 19. The healthcare industry is heavily regulated at the local, state and federal levels. Our failure to comply with regulatory requirements could create liability for us, result in adverse publicity and negatively affect our business.. The healthcare industry is heavily regulated and is constantly evolving due to the changing political, legislative and regulatory landscapes. In some instances, the impact of these regulations on our business is direct to the extent that we are subject to these laws and regulations ourselves. However, these regulations also impact our business indirectly as, in a number of circumstances, our solutions, devices and services must be capable of being used by our clients in a way that complies with those laws and regulations, even though we may not be directly regulated by the specific healthcare laws and regulations. There is a significant number of wide-ranging regulations, including regulations in the areas of healthcare fraud, e-prescribing, claims processing and transmission, medical devices, the security and privacy of patient data, the ARRA meaningful use program, and interoperability standards, that may be directly or indirectly applicable to our operations and relationships or the business practices of our clients. Specific areas that are subject to increased regulation include, but are not limited to, the following:. Healthcare Fraud. Federal and state governments continue to enhance regulation of and increase their scrutiny over practices potentially involving healthcare fraud, waste and abuse by healthcare providers whose services are reimbursed by Medicare, Medicaid and other government healthcare programs. Our healthcare provider clients are subject to laws and regulations regarding fraud and abuse that, among other things, prohibit the direct or indirect payment or receipt of any remuneration for patient referrals, or arranging for or recommending referrals or other business paid for in whole or in part by these federal or state healthcare programs. Federal enforcement personnel have substantial funding, powers and remedies to pursue suspected or perceived fraud and abuse. The effect of this government regulation on our clients is difficult to predict. Many of the regulations applicable to our clients and that may be applicable to us, including those relating to marketing incentives offered in connection with medical device sales may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could broaden their applicability to us or require our clients to make changes in their operations or the way in which they deal with us. If such laws and regulations are determined to be applicable to us and if we fail to comply with any applicable laws and regulations, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties, sanctions or other liabilities, including exclusion from government healthcare programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Even an unsuccessful challenge by a regulatory or prosecutorial authority of our activities could result in adverse publicity, could require a costly response from us and could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. E-Prescribing. The use of our solutions by physicians for electronic prescribing and electronic routing of prescriptions via the Surescripts network to pharmacies is governed by federal and state laws. States have differing regulations that govern the electronic transmission of certain prescriptions and prescription requirements. Standards adopted by the National Council for Prescription Drug Programs and regulations adopted by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (\"CMS\") related to \"EPrescribing and the Prescription Drug Program\" set forth implementation standards for the transmission of electronic prescriptions. These standards are detailed and broad, and cover not only routing transactions between prescribers and pharmacies, but also electronic eligibility, formulary and benefits inquiries. In general, regulations in this area can be burdensome and evolve regularly, meaning that any potential benefits to our clients from utilizing such solutions and services may be superseded by a newly-promulgated regulation that adversely affects our business model. Our efforts to provide solutions that enable our clients to comply with these regulations could be time consuming and expensive.. Claims Processing and Transmission. Our system electronically transmits medical claims by physicians to patients' payors for immediate approval and reimbursement. In addition, we offer business management services that include the manual and electronic processing and submission of medical claims by healthcare providers to patients' payors for approval and reimbursement. Federal and state laws provide that it is a violation for any person to submit, or cause to be submitted, a claim to any payor, including, without limitation, Medicare, Medicaid and all private health plans and managed care plans, seeking payment for any service or product that overbills or bills for items that have not been provided to the patient. We have in place policies and procedures that we believe assure that all claims that are transmitted by our system and through our services are accurate and complete, provided that the information given to us by our clients is also accurate and complete. If, however, we do not follow those procedures and policies, or they are not sufficient to prevent inaccurate claims from being submitted, we could be subject to substantial liability including, but not limited to, civil and criminal liability. Additionally, any such failure of our billing and collection services to comply with these laws and regulations could adversely affect demand for our services and could force us to expend significant capital, research and development, and other resources to address the failure.. In most cases where we are permitted to do so, we calculate charges for our billing and collection services based on a percentage of the collections that our clients receive as a result of our services. To the extent that violations or liability for violations of these laws and regulations require intent, it may be alleged that this percentage calculation provides us or our employees with incentive to commit or overlook fraud or abuse in connection with submission and payment of reimbursement. 20. claims. CMS has stated that it is concerned that percentage-based billing services may encourage billing companies to commit or to overlook fraudulent or abusive practices.. A portion of our business involves billing Medicare claims on behalf of our clients. In an effort to combat fraudulent Medicare claims, the federal government offers rewards for reporting of Medicare fraud which could encourage others to subject us to a charge of fraudulent claims, including charges that are ultimately proved to be without merit.. As discussed below, the HIPAA security and privacy standards also affect our claims transmission services, since those services must be structured and provided in a way that supports our clients' HIPAA compliance obligations.. Regulation of Medical Devices. The United States Food and Drug Administration (the \"FDA\") has determined that certain of our solutions, such as our ImageLink® product, are medical devices that are actively regulated under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, as amended. If other of our solutions are deemed to be actively regulated medical devices by the FDA, we could be subject to extensive requirements governing pre- and post-marketing activities including pre-market notification clearance. Complying with these medical device regulations is time consuming and expensive, and our marketing and other sales activities could be subject to unanticipated and significant delays. Further, it is possible that the FDA may become more active in regulating software and medical devices that are used in the healthcare industry. If we are unable to obtain the required regulatory approvals for any such software or medical devices, our short- to long-term business plans for these solutions or medical devices could be delayed or canceled and we could face FDA refusal to grant pre-market clearance or approval of products; withdrawal of existing clearances and approvals; fines, injunctions or civil penalties; recalls or product corrections; production suspensions; and criminal prosecution. FDA regulation of our products could increase our operating costs, delay or prevent the marketing of new or existing products, and adversely affect our revenue growth.. Security and Privacy of Patient Information. Federal, state and local laws regulate the privacy and security of patient records and the circumstances under which those records may be released. These regulations govern both the disclosure and use of confidential patient medical record information and require the users of such information to implement specified security and privacy measures. United States regulations currently in place governing electronic health data transmissions continue to evolve and are often unclear and difficult to apply.. In the United States, HIPAA regulations require national standards for some types of electronic health information transactions and the data elements used in those transactions, security standards to ensure the integrity and confidentiality of health information, and standards to protect the privacy of individually identifiable health information. Covered entities under HIPAA, which include healthcare organizations such as our clients, and our claims processing, transmission and submission services, are required to comply with the privacy standards, transaction regulations and security regulations. Moreover, HITECH and associated regulatory requirements extend many of the HIPAA obligations, formerly imposed only upon covered entities, to business associates as well. As a business associate of our clients who are covered entities, we are in most instances already contractually required to ensure compliance with the HIPAA regulations as they pertain to the handling of covered client data. However, the extension of these HIPAA obligations to business associates by law has created a direct liability risk related to the privacy and security of individually identifiable health information.. Evolving HIPAA and HITECH-related laws or regulations could restrict the ability of our clients to obtain, use or disseminate patient information. This could adversely affect demand for our solutions and devices if they are not re-designed in a timely manner in order to meet the requirements of any new interpretations or regulations that seek to protect the privacy and security of patient data or enable our clients to execute new or modified healthcare transactions. We may need to expend additional capital and software development and other resources to modify our solutions to address these evolving data security and privacy issues. Furthermore, our failure to maintain the confidentiality of sensitive personal information in accordance with the applicable regulatory requirements could damage our reputation and expose us to claims, fines and penalties.. Federal and state statutes and regulations have granted broad enforcement powers to regulatory agencies to investigate and enforce compliance with these privacy and security laws and regulations. Federal and state enforcement personnel have substantial funding, powers and remedies to pursue suspected or perceived violations. If we fail to comply with any applicable laws or regulations, we could be subject to civil penalties, sanctions or other liability. Enforcement investigations, even if meritless, could have a negative impact on our reputation, cause us to lose existing clients or limit our ability to attract new clients.. ARRA Meaningful Use Program. The ARRA requires \"meaningful use of certified electronic health record technology\" by healthcare providers by 2015 in order to receive limited incentive payments and to avoid related reduced reimbursement rates for Medicare claims. Related standards and specifications are subject to interpretation by the entities designated to certify such technology. While a combination of our solutions has been certified as meeting both stage one and stage two standards for certified electronic health record technology, the regulatory standards to achieve certification will continue to evolve over time.. 21. We may incur increased development costs and delays in delivering solutions if we need to upgrade our software or healthcare devices to be in compliance with these varying and evolving standards. In addition, delays in interpreting these standards may result in postponement or cancellation of our clients' decisions to purchase our software solutions. If our software solutions are not compliant with these evolving standards, our market position and sales could be impaired and we may have to invest significantly in changes to our software solutions.. Interoperability Standards. Our clients are concerned with and often require that our software and systems be interoperable with other third party healthcare information technology systems. Market forces or governmental or regulatory authorities could create software interoperability standards that would apply to our software and systems, and if our software and systems are not consistent with those standards, we could be forced to incur substantial additional development costs. For example, the HITECH Act contains interoperability standards that healthcare providers are required to adhere to in order to receive stimulus funds from the federal government under the ARRA. Compliance with these and related standards is becoming a competitive requirement and, although a combination of our solutions has been certified as meeting all such required interoperability standards to date, maintaining such compliance with these varying and evolving rules may result in increased development costs and delays in upgrading our client software and systems. To the extent these rules are narrowly construed, subsequently changed or supplemented, or that we are delayed in achieving certification under these evolving rules for applicable products, our clients may postpone or cancel their decisions to purchase or implement our software and systems.. As it relates specifically to interoperability, we are a member of CommonWell Health Alliance (\"CommonWell\"), a not-for-profit trade association comprised of healthcare information technology vendors devoted to the notion that patient data should be safely, securely and immediately available to patients and healthcare providers to support better care delivery, regardless of where that care occurs. CommonWell is committed to fostering standards that make this possible, and to having healthcare information technology companies embed these capabilities natively and cost effectively into their EHR systems. Despite our membership in CommonWell, there is no guarantee that we will successfully manage the interoperability of our software and systems with third-party health IT providers.. Standards for Submission of Healthcare Claims. Effective October 2015, CMS mandated the use of new patient codes for reporting medical diagnosis and inpatient procedures, referred to as the ICD-10 codes. CMS requires all providers, payors, clearinghouses and billing services to utilize these ICD-10 codes when submitting claims for payment. ICD-10 codes affect medical diagnosis and inpatient procedure coding for everyone covered by HIPAA, not just those who submit Medicare or Medicaid claims. Claims for services must use ICD-10 codes for medical diagnosis and inpatient procedures or they will not be paid.  While we have successfully implemented the use of ICD-10 codes within our products and services, the possibility exists for similar future mandates by CMS. If our products and services do not accommodate CMS mandates at any future date, clients may cease to use those products and services that are not compliant and may choose alternative vendors and products that are compliant. This could adversely impact future revenues.. Economic, market and other factors may cause a decline in spending for information technology and services by our current and prospective clients which may result in less demand for our products, lower prices and, consequently, lower revenues and a lower revenue growth rate.. The purchase of our information system involves a significant financial commitment by our clients. At the same time, the healthcare industry faces significant financial pressures that could adversely affect overall spending on healthcare information technology and services. For example, the economic recession in 2007-2009 and continued decrease in availability of credit to hospitals, combined with actual and potential further reductions in federal and state funding for Medicare and Medicaid, has caused hospitals to reduce, eliminate or postpone information technology related and other spending. To the extent spending for healthcare information technology and services declines or increases slower than we anticipate, demand for our products and services, as well as the prices we charge, could be adversely affected. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to increase or maintain our revenues or our revenue growth rate.. There are a limited number of hospitals in our target market. Saturation or consolidation in the healthcare industry could result in the loss of existing clients, a reduction in our potential client base and downward pressure on the prices of our products and services.. The limited number of hospitals with 200 or fewer acute care beds in our general target market for our acute care product and service offerings has resulted in an ever narrowing market for new system installations which could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results.. 22. We have identified opportunities for continued growth and expansion in the form of (1) an expanded replacement market for EHRs as certain existing EHR vendors have struggled and are expected to continue to struggle with the expanding requirements of the ARRA's EHR adoption program, (2) selective expansion into English-speaking international markets, and (3) targeted expansion of the footprint for our ambulatory solutions by aggressively targeting physician practices in those communities where the local hospital is a current CPSI client. Although we have formulated strategic responses for capitalizing on each of the identified opportunities, there is no guarantee that such responses will ultimately prove successful.  Additionally, to the extent that these opportunities fail to develop or develop more slowly than expected, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely impacted.. Furthermore, many healthcare providers have consolidated to create larger healthcare delivery enterprises with greater market power. If this consolidation continues, we could lose existing clients and could experience a decrease in the number of potential purchasers of our products and services. The loss of existing and potential clients due to industry consolidation could cause our revenue growth rate to decline.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMPANY. Volatility in and disruption to the global capital and credit markets and tightened lending standards may adversely affect our ability to access credit in the future, the cost of any credit obtained in the future, and the financial soundness of our clients and our business.. Domestic and international events have frequently resulted in volatility and disruption to the global capital and credit markets, often adversely affecting the availability, terms and cost of credit. Although we believe that our operating cash flow and financial assets will give us the ability to meet our financing needs for the foreseeable future, there can be no assurance that the volatility and disruption in the global capital and credit markets will not impair our liquidity or increase the costs of any future borrowing.. Our business could also be negatively impacted to the extent that our hospital clients continue to face tight capital and credit markets and other disruptions resulting from the prior economic recession or cuts in Medicare and Medicaid funding. Hospitals may modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase our software systems or services. Additionally, if hospitals' operating and financial performance deteriorates, or if they are unable to make scheduled payments or obtain credit, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, accounts receivable owed to us. Any inability of clients to pay us for our products and services may adversely affect our earnings and cash flow.. Tightened lending standards and the absence of third-party credit has resulted in many of our hospital clients seeking financing arrangements from us to purchase our software systems and services. These financing arrangements impact our short-term operating cash flow and cash available. Should the requests for these financing arrangements continue or increase, our business could be negatively impacted by our inability to finance these arrangements. In addition, the absence of credit could negatively impact our existing financing receivables should our clients with financing arrangements be unable to meet their obligations.. Our substantial indebtedness may adversely affect our available cash flow and our ability to operate our business, remain in compliance with debt covenants and make payments on our indebtedness.. In connection with the acquisition of HHI we incurred substantial indebtedness. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $143.5 million of indebtedness, which includes $115.5 million under our Term Loan Facility and $28.0 million borrowed under our Revolving Credit Facility. We also had $17.0 million of unused commitments under our Revolving Credit Facility as of December 31, 2017.. Our substantial indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on or other amounts due in respect of our indebtedness. Our substantial indebtedness, combined with our other financial obligations and contractual commitments, could have important consequences. For example, it could:. • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations under any of our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants, could result in an event of default under such instruments;. • make us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation;. 23. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes;. • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;. • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less highly leveraged and therefore able to take advantage of opportunities that our indebtedness prevents us from exploiting; and. • limit our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy or other purposes.. Any of the above listed factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, our interest expense could increase if interest rates increase because our debt bears interest at floating rates, which could adversely affect our cash flows. If we do not have sufficient earnings to service our debt, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money or sell securities, none of which we can guarantee we will be able to do.. In addition, the Credit Agreement governing our Term Loan Facility and Revolving Credit Facility contains restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. A breach of any of these restrictive covenants, if not cured or waived, could result in an event of default that could trigger acceleration of our indebtedness and may result in the acceleration of or default under any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. The Credit Agreement requires compliance with a consolidated leverage ratio test. In addition, the Credit Agreement requires prepayment of the outstanding indebtedness thereunder if we have certain excess cash flow, as described therein. The Credit Agreement requires us to mandatorily prepay the Term Loan Facility and amounts borrowed under the Revolving Credit Facility with net cash proceeds from certain financing and other transactions. Additionally, the Credit Agreement requires repayment of the facilities with 75% (50% for 2019 and thereafter) of excess cash flow (minus certain specified other payments), subject to elimination if our consolidated leverage ratio is less than or equal to 2.5 to 1.0.. Despite our current indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may still be able to incur substantially more debt, which could exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial leverage.. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, including secured indebtedness. Although the Credit Agreement governing our Term Loan Facility and Revolving Credit Facility contains restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of significant qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. If new debt is added to our or our subsidiaries' current debt levels, the related risks that we face would be increased.. To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control, and any failure to meet our debt service obligations could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition.. Our ability to pay interest on and principal of our debt obligations principally depends upon our operating performance. As a result, prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, will affect our ability to make these payments.. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to satisfy our debt service obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our indebtedness, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital investments or capital expenditures or seeking to raise additional capital. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt, if at all, will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt instruments may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt service obligations, or to refinance our obligations at all or on commercially reasonable terms, could affect our ability to satisfy our debt obligations and have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition.. 24. The terms of the Credit Agreement governing our Term Loan Facility and Revolving Credit Facility may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes in our business or to take certain actions.. Our Term Loan Facility and Revolving Credit Facility contain, and any future indebtedness of ours would likely contain, a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating restrictions, including restrictions on our ability to engage in acts that may be in our best long-term interests.. The Credit Agreement governing our Term Loan Facility and Revolving Credit Facility includes covenants restricting, among other things, our ability to:. •incur additional debt;. •incur liens and encumbrances;. •pay dividends on our equity securities or payments to redeem, repurchase or retire our equity securities;. •enter into restrictive agreements;. •make investments, loans and acquisitions;. •merge or consolidate with any other person;. •dispose of assets;. •enter into sale and leaseback transactions;. •engage in transactions with our affiliates; and. •materially alter the business we conduct.. The operating restrictions and covenants in these debt agreements and any future financing agreements may adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, and any material deviations from our forecasts could require us to seek waivers or amendments of covenants, alternative sources of financing or reductions in expenditures. In addition, the outstanding indebtedness under our Term Loan Facility and Revolving Credit Facility is, subject to certain exceptions, secured by security interests in substantially all of our and the subsidiary guarantors' tangible and intangible assets (subject to certain exceptions). A breach of any of the restrictive covenants in the Credit Agreement governing our Term Loan Facility and Revolving Credit Facility would result in a default, and our lenders may elect to declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable, or enforce and foreclose on their security interest and liquidate some or all of such pledged assets. The lenders under our Term Loan Facility and Revolving Credit Facility also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings.. We are exposed to market risk related to interest rate changes.. We are exposed to market risk related to changes in interest rates as a result of the floating interest rates applicable to the outstanding debt under our Term Loan Facility and Revolving Credit Facility. The interest rate for the outstanding debt under our Term Loan Facility and Revolving Credit Facility as of December 31, 2017 was 4.875%. Borrowings under our Term Loan Facility and Revolving Credit Facility bear interest at a base rate, a LIBOR rate, or a combination of the two, as elected by us, plus an applicable margin. The base rate is determined by reference to the greatest of (a) the prime lending rate of Regions Bank, (b) the federal funds rate for the relevant interest period plus one half of one percent per annum and (c) the one month LIBOR rate plus one percent per annum. The LIBOR rate is determined by reference to the interest rate for dollar deposits in the London interbank market for the interest period relevant to such borrowings, adjusted as set forth in the Credit Agreement. There is no cap on the maximum interest rate for borrowings under our Term Loan Facility and Revolving Credit Facility.. We may engage in future acquisitions. Such strategic acquisitions may be expensive, time consuming, and subject to other inherent risks which may jeopardize our ability to realize anticipated benefits.. We may acquire additional businesses, technologies and products if we determine that these additional businesses, technologies and products are likely to serve our strategic goals. Acquisitions, including the HHI acquisition, have inherent risks, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results or prospects, including, but not limited to the following:. 25. • significant acquisition and integration costs;. • failure to achieve projected synergies and performance targets;. • potentially dilutive issuances of our securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities and amortization expenses related to intangible assets with indefinite useful lives, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition;. • using cash as acquisition currency may adversely affect interest or investment income, which may in turn adversely affect our earnings and/or earnings per share;. • difficulty in fully or effectively integrating the acquired technologies, software products, services, business practices or personnel, which would prevent us from realizing the intended benefits of the acquisition;. • failure to maintain uniform standard controls, policies and procedures across acquired businesses;. • difficulty in predicting and responding to issues related to product transition such as development, distribution and client support;. • the possible adverse effect of such acquisitions on existing relationships with third party partners and suppliers of technologies and services;. • the possibility that staff or clients of the acquired companies might not accept new ownership and may transition to different technologies or attempt to renegotiate contract terms or relationships, including maintenance or support agreements;. • the assumption of known and unknown liabilities;. • the possibility that the due diligence process in any such acquisition may not completely identify material issues associated with product quality, product architecture, product development, intellectual property issues, key personnel issues or legal and financial contingencies, including any deficiencies in internal controls and procedures and the costs associated with remedying such deficiencies;. • difficulty in entering geographic and/or business markets in which we have no or limited prior experience;. • diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; and. • the possibility that acquired assets become impaired, requiring us to take a charge to earnings which could be significant.. A failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses or technology in a timely manner could, for any of these reasons, have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. As a result, we may not be able to realize the expected benefits that we seek to achieve from the acquisitions, which could also affect our ability to service our debt obligations. In addition, we may be required to spend additional time or money on integration that otherwise would be spent on the development and expansion of our business.. Competition with companies that have greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we have could result in a loss of clients and/or a lowering of prices for our products, causing a decrease in our revenues and/or market share.. Our principal competitors are Cerner Corporation, athenahealth, Inc., Medical Information Technology, Inc. (\"Meditech\"), and MEDHOST, Inc. These companies compete with us directly in our target market of small and midsize hospitals. They offer products and systems that are comparable to our solutions and address the needs of hospitals in the markets we serve.. Our secondary competitors in the acute care EHR market include Change Healthcare Holdings, Inc., Allscripts Healthcare Solutions, Inc., and Epic Systems Corporation. These companies are significantly larger than we are, and they typically sell their products and services to larger hospitals outside of our target market. However, they will sometimes compete with us directly or, more commonly, a larger health system who uses a system provided by one of these competitors will offer it to a smaller hospital as part of a merger or alliance.. 26. We also face competition from providers of practice management systems, general decision support and database systems, and other segment-specific applications. Any of these companies, as well as other technology or healthcare companies could decide at any time to specifically target hospitals within our target market.. Our principal competitors in the post-acute care EHR market are PointClickCare Corporation, MatrixCare, Inc., and HealthMEDX, LLC. These companies compete with us directly in our target market of long-term post-acute care facilities.  They offer products and systems that are comparable to our system and address the needs of long-term care providers.. Our principal competitors in the business management, consulting and managed information technology services market are Healthcare Resource Group, Inc., Resolution Health, Inc., The Outsource Group Inc.,Patient Focus, Inc, Xtend Healthcare Inc., Ensemble Health Partners, and nThrive, Inc. All of these companies provide one or more of the services we offer, with their primary focus being on business management services. The services they offer are comparable in scope to the competing services we offer. These companies all focus on providing services to the healthcare market.  Secondary competitors include ARx LLC, Citadel Outsource Group LLC, Patient Matters, LLC, KIWI-TEK, LLC, and Aviacode Inc. Our principle competitors for RCM solutions include RelayHealth Corp, SSI Group, LLC, Quadax Inc., Change Healthcare Holdings, Inc., Availity, LLC, and Navicure, Inc.. A number of existing and potential competitors are more established than we are and have greater name recognition and financial, technical and marketing resources. Products of our competitors may have better performance, lower prices and broader market acceptance than our products. We expect increased competition that could cause us to lose clients, lower our prices to remain competitive and, consequently, experience lower revenues, revenue growth and profit margins.. Our failure to develop new products or enhance current products in response to market demands could adversely impact our competitive position and require substantial capital resources to correct.. The needs of hospitals in our target market are subject to rapid change due to government regulation, trends in clinical care practices and technological advancements. As a result of these changes, our products may quickly become obsolete or less competitive. New product introductions and enhancements by our competitors that more effectively or timely respond to changing industry needs may weaken our competitive position.. We continually redesign and enhance our products to incorporate new technologies and adapt our products to ever-changing hardware and software platforms. Often we face difficult choices regarding which new technologies to adopt. If we fail to anticipate or respond adequately to technological advancements, or experience significant delays in product development or introduction, our competitive position could be negatively affected. Moreover, our failure to offer products acceptable to our target market could require us to make significant capital investments and incur higher operating costs to redesign our products, which could negatively affect our financial condition and operating results.. Our products assist clinical decision-making and related care by capturing, maintaining and reporting relevant patient data. If our products fail to provide accurate and timely information, our clients could assert claims against us that could result in substantial cost to us, harm our reputation in the industry and cause demand for our products to decline.. We provide products that assist clinical decision-making and related care by capturing, maintaining and reporting relevant patient data. Our products could fail or produce inaccurate results due to a variety of reasons, including mechanical error, product flaws, faulty installation and/or human error during the initial data conversion. If our products fail to provide accurate and timely information, clients and/or patients could sue us to hold us responsible for losses they incur from these errors. These lawsuits, regardless of merit or outcome, could result in substantial cost to us, divert management's attention from operations and decrease market acceptance of our products. We attempt to limit by contract our liability for damages arising from negligence, errors or mistakes. Despite this precaution, such contract provisions may not be enforceable or may not otherwise protect us from liability for damages. We maintain general liability insurance coverage, including coverage for errors or omissions. However, this coverage may not be sufficient to cover one or more large claims against us or otherwise continue to be available on terms acceptable to us. In addition, the insurer could disclaim coverage as to any future claim.. Breaches of security and viruses in our systems could result in client claims against us and harm to our reputation causing us to incur expenses and/or lose clients.. In the course of our business operations, we compile and transmit confidential information, including patient health information. We have included security features in our systems that are intended to protect the privacy and integrity of this information. Despite the existence of these security features, our system may experience break-ins and similar disruptive problems that could jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through the information technology. 27. networks of our clients. In addition, the other systems with which we may interface, such as the Internet and related systems, may be vulnerable to security breaches, viruses, programming errors or similar disruptive problems. Based on the size of our company, the industry in which we operate, and the overall percentage of impacted companies in the same or similar industry, it is probable there will be attempts to breach our security. Healthcare information has become a prime target for attackers based on the value of the information and, therefore, has the potential to increase the risk of us experiencing a cyber attack.. Our systems have experienced various immaterial breaches in the past, including ransomware, denial-of-service, malware, and phishing. Also, our business partners have experienced security breaches, which is disruptive for our customers. While these events have not had an adverse impact on our business or financial condition, security breaches such as these could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, as, (a) clients could sue us for breaches of security involving our system due to the sensitivity of the medical information we compile and transmit; (b) actual or perceived security breaches in our system could harm the market perception of our products which could cause us to lose existing and prospective clients; and (c) the effect of security breaches and related issues could disrupt our ability to perform certain key business functions and could potentially reduce demand for our products and services. Accordingly, we have expended significant resources toward establishing and enhancing the security of our related infrastructures and we have enhanced our cybersecurity risk management program and disclosure controls and procedures, as discussed under \"Business - Our Products and Services.\" However, no assurance can be given that these efforts will be sufficient to protect against a breach or other cybersecurity incident. Also, maintaining and enhancing our infrastructure security may require us to expend significant capital in the future.. New products that we introduce or enhancements to our existing products may contain undetected errors or problems that could affect client satisfaction and cause a decrease in revenues.. Highly complex software products such as ours sometimes contain undetected errors or failures when first introduced or when updates and new versions are released. Tests of our products may not detect bugs or errors because it is difficult to simulate our clients' wide variety of computing environments. Despite extensive testing, from time to time we have discovered defects or errors in our products. Defects or errors discovered in our products could cause delays in product introductions and shipments, result in increased costs and diversion of development resources, require design modifications, decrease market acceptance or client satisfaction with our products, cause a loss of revenue, result in legal actions by our clients and cause increased insurance costs.. Most of our facilities are located in an area vulnerable to hurricanes and tropical storms, and the occurrence of a severe hurricane, similar storm or other natural disaster could cause damage to our facilities and equipment, which could require us to cease or limit our operations.. A significant portion of our facilities and employees are located within 30 miles of the coast of the Gulf of Mexico. Our facilities are vulnerable to significant damage or destruction from hurricanes and tropical storms. We are also vulnerable to damage from other types of disasters, including tornadoes, fires, floods and similar events. If any disaster were to occur, our ability to conduct business at our facilities could be seriously impaired or completely destroyed. This would have adverse consequences for our clients who depend on us for system support or business management, consulting and managed IT services. Also, the servers of clients who use our remote access services could be damaged or destroyed in any such disaster. This would have potentially devastating consequences to those clients. Although we have an emergency recovery plan, including back-up systems in remote locations, there can be no assurance that this plan will effectively prevent the interruption of our business due to a natural disaster. Furthermore, the insurance we maintain may not be adequate to cover our losses resulting from any natural disaster or other business interruption.. Interruptions in our power supply and/or telecommunications capabilities could disrupt our operations, cause us to lose revenues and/or increase our expenses.. We currently have backup generators to be used as alternative sources of power in the event of a loss of power to our facilities. If these generators were to fail during any power outage, we would be temporarily unable to continue operations at our facilities. This would have adverse consequences for our clients who depend on us for system support, business management, and managed IT and professional services. Any such interruption in operations at our facilities could damage our reputation, harm our ability to retain existing clients and obtain new clients, and result in lost revenue and increased insurance and other operating costs.. We also have clients for whom we store and maintain computer servers containing critical patient and administrative data. Those clients access this data remotely through telecommunications lines. If our power generators fail during any power outage or if our telecommunications lines are severed or impaired for any reason, those clients would be unable to access their mission. 28. critical data causing an interruption in their operations. In such event our remote access clients and/or their patients could seek to hold us responsible for any losses. We would also potentially lose those clients, and our reputation could be harmed.. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified client service and support personnel, our business and operating results will suffer.. Our client service and support is a key component of our business. Most of our hospital clients have small information technology staffs, and they depend on us to service and support their systems. Future difficulty in attracting, training and retaining capable client service and support personnel could cause a decrease in the overall quality of our client service and support. That decrease would have a negative effect on client satisfaction which could cause us to lose existing clients and could have an adverse effect on our new client sales. The loss of clients due to inadequate client service and support would negatively impact our ability to continue to grow our business.. We do not have employment or non-competition agreements with most of our key personnel, and their departure could harm our future success.. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the leadership and performance of our chief executive officer and other executive officers. We do not have employment or non-competition agreements with most of our executive officers. Therefore, they may terminate their employment with us at any time and may compete against us. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we are unable to manage our growth in the new markets we may enter, our business and financial results could suffer.. Our future financial results will depend in part on our ability to profitably manage our business in new markets that we may enter. We are engaging in the strategic identification of, and competition for, growth and expansion opportunities in new markets or offerings.  In order to successfully execute on these future initiatives, we will need to, among other things, manage changing business conditions and develop expertise in areas outside of our business's traditional core competencies. Difficulties in managing future growth in new markets could have a significant negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Because we believe that proprietary rights are material to our success, misappropriation of these rights could limit our ability to compete effectively and adversely affect our financial condition.. We are heavily dependent on the maintenance and protection of our intellectual property and we rely largely on a combination of confidentiality provisions in our client agreements, employee nondisclosure agreements, trademark and trade secret laws and other measures to protect our intellectual property. Additionally, our software is not patented or copyrighted. Although we attempt to control access to our intellectual property, unauthorized persons may attempt to copy or otherwise use our intellectual property. There can be no assurance that the legal protections and precautions we take will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology or that competitors will not independently develop technologies equivalent or superior to ours. Monitoring unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult, and the steps we have taken may not prevent unauthorized use. If our competitors gain access to our intellectual property, our competitive position in the industry could be damaged. An inability to compete effectively could cause us to lose existing and potential clients and experience lower revenues, revenue growth and profit margins. Third parties could obtain patents that may require us to negotiate licenses to conduct our business, and the required licenses may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. We also rely on nondisclosure agreements with certain employees, and we cannot be certain that these agreements will not be breached or that we will have adequate remedies for any breach.. If we are deemed to infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties, we could incur unanticipated expense and be prevented from providing our products and services if we cannot obtain licenses to these rights on commercially acceptable terms.. We do not believe that our operations or products infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. However, there can be no assurance that others will not assert infringement or trade secret claims against us with respect to our current or future products. Many participants in the technology industry have an increasing number of patents and patent applications and have frequently demonstrated a readiness to take legal action based on allegations of patent and other intellectual property infringement. Further, as the number and functionality of our products increase, we believe we may become increasingly subject to the risk of infringement claims. If infringement claims are brought against us, these assertions could distract management. We may have to spend a significant amount of money and time to defend or settle those claims. In addition,. 29. claims against third parties from which we purchase software could adversely affect our ability to access third-party software for our systems.. If we were found to infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, we could be forced to pay significant license fees or damages for infringement. If we were unable to obtain licenses to these rights on commercially acceptable terms, we would be required to discontinue the sale of our products that contain the infringing technology. Our clients would also be required to discontinue the use of those products. We are unable to insure against this risk on an economically feasible basis. Even if we were to prevail in an infringement lawsuit, the accompanying publicity could adversely impact the demand for our products. Under some circumstances, we agree to indemnify our clients for some types of infringement claims that may arise from the use of our products.. We face the risks and uncertainties that are associated with litigation against us, which may adversely impact our marketing, distract management and have a negative impact upon our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We face the risks associated with litigation concerning the operation of our business. For example, companies in our industry, including many of our competitors, have been subject to litigation based on allegations of patent infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. In particular, patent holding companies often engage in litigation to seek to monetize patents that they have obtained. As the number of competitors, patents and patent holding companies in our industry increases, the functionality of our products and services expands, and we enter into new geographies and markets, the number of intellectual property rights-related actions against us is likely to continue to increase. The uncertainty associated with substantial unresolved litigation may have an adverse effect on our business. In particular, such litigation could impair our relationships with existing clients and our ability to obtain new clients. Defending such litigation may result in a diversion of management's time and attention away from business operations, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Such litigation may also have the effect of discouraging potential acquirers from bidding for us or reducing the consideration such acquirers would otherwise be willing to pay in connection with an acquisition.. There can be no assurance that such litigation will not result in liability in excess of our insurance coverage, that our insurance will cover such claims or that appropriate insurance will continue to be available to us in the future at commercially reasonable rates.. We are dependent on the continued and unimpeded access to the Internet by us and our clients, which is not within our control.. We deliver Internet-based services and, accordingly, depend on our ability and the ability of our clients to access the Internet. This access is currently provided by third parties that have significant market power in the broadband and Internet access marketplace, including incumbent telephone companies, cable companies, mobile communications companies and government-owned service providers - all of whom are outside of our control. In the event of any difficulties, outages and delays by Internet service providers, we may be impeded from providing services, resulting in a loss of potential or existing clients.. We may be subject to liability in the event we provide inaccurate claims data to payors.. We offer electronic claims submission services as part of our business management services. While we have implemented certain product features designed to maximize the accuracy and completeness of claims submissions, these features may not be sufficient to prevent inaccurate claims data from being submitted to payors. Should inaccurate claims data be submitted to payors, we may be subject to liability claims.. We are dependent on our licenses of rights, products and services from third parties, disruptions of which may cause us to discontinue, delay or reduce product shipments.. We are increasingly dependent upon licenses for some of the technology used in our products as well as other products and services from third-party vendors, and the costs of these licenses have increased in recent years. Most of these arrangements can be continued/renewed only by mutual consent and may be terminated for any number of reasons. We may not be able to continue using the technology, products or services made available to us under these arrangements on commercially reasonable terms or at all. As a result, we may have to discontinue, delay or reduce product shipments or services provided until we can obtain equivalent technology or services. Most of our third-party licenses are non-exclusive. Our competitors may obtain the right to use any of the business elements covered by these arrangements and use these elements to compete directly with us. In addition, if our vendors choose to discontinue providing their technology, products or services in the future or are unsuccessful in their continued research and development efforts, we may not be able to modify or adapt our own products.. 30. As a result of the inherent limitations in our internal control over financial reporting, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.. Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by us in reports we file with or submit to the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (\"Exchange Act\") is accumulated and communicated to management and recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in SEC rules and forms. We believe that any disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. In addition, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by an unauthorized override of the controls.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK. We are subject to changes in and interpretations of financial accounting matters that govern the measurement of our performance, one or more of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, revenue and results of operations.. Based on our reading and interpretations of relevant guidance, principles or concepts issued by, among other authorities, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the Securities and Exchange Commission, we believe revenue received pursuant to our current sales and licensing contract terms and business arrangements have been properly recognized. However, there continue to be issued interpretations and guidance for applying the relevant standards to a wide range of sales and licensing contract terms and business arrangements that are prevalent in the software industry. Future interpretations or changes by the regulators of existing accounting standards, including ASC Topic 985-606, or changes in our business practices could result in changes in our revenue recognition and/or other accounting policies and practices that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, revenue and results of operations.. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings if our goodwill or intangible assets become impaired.. We are required under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (\"U.S. GAAP\") to test our goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently if indicators for potential impairment exist. Indicators that are considered include significant changes in performance relative to expected operating results, significant changes in the use of the assets, significant negative industry, or economic trends, or a significant decline in the Company's stock price and/or market capitalization for a sustained period of time. In addition, we periodically review our intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our intangible assets may not be recoverable include slower growth rates, the loss of significant clients, or divestiture of a business or asset for less than its carrying value. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our consolidated financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or intangible assets is determined. For example, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $28.0 million in the fourth quarter of 2017 relating to our Post-acute Care EHR reporting unit, which consists soley of American HealthTech, which we acquired in January 2016 as part of our acquisition of HHI. This impairment charge had a significant negative effect on our consolidated net income for the year ended December 31, 2017.. Any future impairment charges could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. There are inherent uncertainties in management's estimates, judgments and assumptions used in assessing recoverability of goodwill and intangible assets. Any changes in key assumptions, including failure to meet business plans, a deterioration in the market, or other unanticipated events and circumstances, may affect the accuracy or validity of such estimates and could potentially result in an impairment charge.. The unpredictability of our quarterly operating results may cause us to fail to meet revenues or earnings expectations which could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate or decline.. There is no assurance that consistent quarterly growth in our business will occur. Our quarterly revenues may fluctuate and may be difficult to forecast for a variety of reasons. For example, prospective clients often take significant time evaluating our system and related services before making a purchase decision. Moreover, a prospective client who has placed an order for our system could decide to cancel that order or postpone installation of the ordered system. If a prospective client delays or cancels a scheduled system installation during any quarter, we may not be able to schedule a substitute system installation. 31. during that quarter. The amount of revenues that would have been generated from that installation will be postponed or lost. The possibility of delays or cancellations of scheduled system installations could cause our quarterly revenues to fluctuate.. The following factors may also affect demand for our products and services and cause our quarterly revenues to fluctuate:. • changes in client budgets and purchasing priorities;. • the ability of our clients to obtain financing for the purchase of our products;. • the financial stability of our clients;. • the specific mix of software, hardware and services in orders from clients;. • the timing of new product announcements and product introductions by us and our competitors;. • market acceptance of new products, product enhancements and services from us and our competitors;. • product and price competition;. • our success in expanding our sales and marketing programs;. • the availability and cost of system components;. • delay of revenue recognition to future quarters due to an increase in the sales of our remote access SaaS services;. • the length of sales cycles and installation processes;. • changes in revenue recognition or other accounting guidelines employed by us and/or established by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other rulemaking bodies;. • accounting policies concerning the timing of recognition of revenue;. • personnel changes; and. • general market and economic factors.. Variations in our quarterly revenues may adversely affect our operating results. In each fiscal quarter, our expense levels, operating costs and hiring plans are based on projections of future revenues and are relatively fixed. Because a significant percentage of our expenses are relatively fixed, a variation in the timing of systems sales, implementations and installations can cause significant variations in operating results from quarter to quarter. As a result, we believe that interim period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. Further, our historical operating results are not necessarily indicative of future performance for any particular period.. During 2017, we recognized revenue pursuant to Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\") Accounting Standards Codification (\"ASC\") Topic 985-605, Software, Revenue Recognition, or ASC 985-605. As of January 1, 2018, we recognize revenue pursuant to FASB ASC Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, or ASC 606. ASC 606 summarizes the FASB's views in applying generally accepted accounting principles to revenue recognition in financial statements. There can be no assurance that application and subsequent interpretations of this pronouncement will not further modify our revenue recognition policies, or that such modifications would not adversely affect our operating results reported in any particular quarter or year.. Due to all of the foregoing factors, it is possible that our operating results may be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In such event, the price of our common stock would likely be adversely affected.. Our common stock price has periodically experienced significant volatility, which could result in substantial losses for investors purchasing shares of our common stock and in litigation against us.. Volatility may be caused by a number of factors including but not limited to:. • actual or anticipated quarterly variations in operating results;. • rumors about our performance, software solutions, or merger and acquisition activity;. 32. • changes in expectations of future financial performance or changes in estimates of securities analysts;. • governmental regulatory action;. • healthcare reform measures;. • client relationship developments;. • purchases or sales of Company stock;. • changes occurring in the markets in general;. • macroeconomic conditions, both nationally and internationally; and. • other factors, many of which are beyond our control.. Furthermore, the stock market in general, and the market for software, healthcare and high technology companies in particular, has experienced significant volatility in recent years that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of actual operating performance.. Moreover, in the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. We may in the future be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources.. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, this may adversely affect investor confidence in our company and, as a result, the value of our common stock.. We are required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act to furnish a report by management on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and to include a report by our independent auditors attesting to such effectiveness. Any failure by us to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could adversely affect our ability to report accurately our financial condition or results of operations.. As discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016 (under \"Controls and Procedures\"), our management concluded that, as of December 31, 2016, we had a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting related to our business combination processes. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. We have remediated the identified material weakness, but no assurances can be given that management will not identify in the future internal control deficiencies, with respect to business combination processes or otherwise, that constitute a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting or that any such material weakness will be remediated in a timely fashion.. If we are unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting,or if our independent auditors determine that we have a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, the market price of our common stock could decline, and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities. Failure to remedy any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, or to implement or maintain other effective control systems required of public companies, also could restrict our future access to the capital markets.. 33"
