[1] "ITEM 1A.  Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following risk factors as well as the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this report, as these important factors, among others, could cause our actual results to differ from our expected or historical results. It is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider any such list to be a complete statement of all of our potential risks or uncertainties.. An extended period of depressed oil and natural gas prices will adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flow, liquidity, results of operations and our ability to meet our capital expenditure obligations and financial commitments.. Our business is heavily dependent upon the prices of, and demand for, oil and natural gas. Historically, the prices for oil and natural gas have been volatile and are likely to remain volatile in the future.  Oil and natural gas prices declined substantially starting in mid-2014 and, while improving in late 2016, remained relatively low thereafter.  During 2017, commodity prices fluctuated significantly, with the settlement price for West Texas Intermediate (\"WTI\") crude oil ranging from a high of approximately $60.42 per barrel to a low of approximately $42.53 per barrel and settlement prices for Henry Hub natural gas ranging from a high of approximately $3.42 per Mcf to a low of approximately $2.56 per Mcf.  Oil and natural gas price volatility has continued into 2018 and, through February 26, 2018, the WTI settlement price of crude oil had a low of approximately $59.19 per barrel, and the Henry Hub settlement price of natural gas had a low of approximately $2.55 per Mcf.. 27. The prices we receive for our oil and natural gas production are subject to wide fluctuations and depend on numerous factors beyond our control, including the following:. •  the domestic and foreign supply of oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas;. •  weather conditions;. •  the price and quantity of imports of oil and natural gas;. •  political conditions and events in other oil-producing and natural gas-producing countries, including embargoes, hostilities in the Middle East and other sustained military campaigns, and acts of terrorism or sabotage;. •  the actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC;. •  domestic government regulation, legislation and policies;. •  the level of global oil and natural gas inventories;. •  technological advances affecting energy consumption;. •  the price and availability of alternative fuels; and. •  overall economic conditions.. Lower oil and natural gas prices will adversely affect:. •  our revenues, profitability and cash flow from operations;. •  the value of our proved oil and natural gas reserves;. •  the economic viability of certain of our drilling prospects;. •  our borrowing capacity; and. •  our ability to obtain additional capital.. Our debt service requirements could adversely affect our operations and limit our growth.. We had $1.2 billion principal amount of debt as of December 31, 2017.. Our outstanding debt has important consequences, including, without limitation:. •  a portion of our cash flow from operations is required to make debt service payments, although under the terms of our outstanding notes we may, subject to certain conditions, issue additional notes in lieu of making cash interest payments;. •  our ability to borrow additional amounts for capital expenditures (including acquisitions) or other purposes is limited; and. •  our debt limits our ability to capitalize on significant business opportunities, our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in market conditions and our ability to withstand competitive pressures and economic downturns.. Because we have, subject to certain conditions, the ability to pay the interest on our outstanding notes by issuing additional notes, we are likely to incur substantial additional indebtedness over the terms of our outstanding notes.  In addition, future acquisition or development activities may require us to alter our capitalization significantly. These changes in capitalization may significantly increase our debt. Moreover, our ability to meet our debt service obligations and to reduce our total debt will be dependent upon our future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions and financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to service our indebtedness and to meet other commitments, we will be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as refinancing or restructuring our indebtedness, selling material assets or seeking to raise additional debt or equity capital. We cannot assure you that any of these actions could be effected on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms or that these actions would enable us to continue to satisfy our capital requirements.. 28. Our debt agreements contain a number of significant covenants. These covenants limit our ability to, among other things:. •  borrow additional money;. •  merge, consolidate or dispose of assets;. •  make certain types of investments;. •  enter into transactions with our affiliates; and. •  pay dividends.. Our failure to comply with any of these covenants could cause a default under our bank credit facility and the respective indentures governing our outstanding notes. A default, if not waived, could result in acceleration of our indebtedness, in which case the debt would become immediately due and payable. If this occurs, we may not be able to repay our debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it given the current status of the credit markets. Even if new financing is available, it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us. Complying with these covenants may cause us to take actions that we otherwise would not take or not take actions that we otherwise would take.. Issuances of our common stock in connection with the conversion of our convertible notes would cause substantial dilution, which could materially affect the trading price of our common stock and earnings per share.. As part of the debt exchange transaction we completed in September 2016, as of December 31, 2017 we have $477.9 million of notes that are convertible into shares of our common stock outstanding. As a result, substantial amounts of our common stock may be issued in the future.  If all outstanding convertible notes were converted at December 31, 2017, they would represent 72% of our outstanding shares. The future issuances of shares from the conversion of the notes could result in substantial decreases to our stock price and earnings per share.. Our access to capital markets may be limited in the future.. Adverse changes in the financial and credit markets could negatively impact our ability to grow production and reserves and meet our future obligations.  In addition, the continuation of the current low oil and natural gas price environment, or further declines of oil and natural gas prices, will affect our ability to obtain financing for acquisitions and drilling activities and could result in a reduction in drilling activity which results in the loss of acreage through lease expirations, both of which could negatively affect our ability to replace reserves.. Our future production and revenues depend on our ability to replace our reserves.. Our future production and revenues depend upon our ability to find, develop or acquire additional oil and natural gas reserves that are economically recoverable. Our proved reserves will generally decline as reserves are depleted, except to the extent that we conduct successful exploration or development activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves, or both. To increase reserves and production, we must continue our acquisition and drilling activities. We cannot assure you that we will have adequate capital resources to conduct acquisition and drilling activities or that our acquisition and drilling activities will result in significant additional reserves or that we will have continuing success drilling productive wells at low finding and development costs. Furthermore, while our revenues may increase if prevailing oil and natural gas prices increase significantly, our finding costs for additional reserves could also increase.. 29. Prospects that we decide to drill may not yield oil or natural gas in commercially viable quantities or quantities sufficient to meet our targeted rate of return.. A prospect is a property in which we own an interest or have operating rights and that has what our geoscientists believe, based on available seismic and geological information, to be an indication of potential oil or natural gas. Our prospects are in various stages of evaluation, ranging from a prospect that is ready to be drilled to a prospect that will require substantial additional evaluation and interpretation. There is no way to predict in advance of drilling and testing whether any particular prospect will yield oil or natural gas in sufficient quantities to recover drilling or completion costs or to be economically viable. The use of seismic data and other technologies and the study of producing fields in the same area will not enable us to know conclusively prior to drilling whether oil or natural gas will be present or, if present, whether oil or natural gas will be present in commercial quantities. The analysis that we perform using data from other wells, more fully explored prospects and/or producing fields may not be useful in predicting the characteristics and potential reserves associated with our drilling prospects. If we drill additional unsuccessful wells, our drilling success rate may decline and we may not achieve our targeted rate of return.. Our business involves many uncertainties and operating risks that can prevent us from realizing profits and can cause substantial losses.. Our success depends on the success of our exploration and development activities. Exploration activities involve numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive natural gas or oil reserves will be discovered. In addition, these activities may be unsuccessful for many reasons, including weather, cost overruns, equipment shortages and mechanical difficulties. Moreover, the successful drilling of a natural gas or oil well does not ensure we will realize a profit on our investment. A variety of factors, both geological and market-related, can cause a well to become uneconomical or only marginally economical. In addition to their costs, unsuccessful wells can hurt our efforts to replace production and reserves.. Our business involves a variety of operating risks, including:. •  unusual or unexpected geological formations;. •  fires;. •  explosions;. •  blow-outs and surface cratering;. •  uncontrollable flows of natural gas, oil and formation water;. •  natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tropical storms and other adverse weather conditions;. •  pipe, cement, or pipeline failures;. •  casing collapses;. •  mechanical difficulties, such as lost or stuck oil field drilling and service tools;. •  abnormally pressured formations; and. •  environmental hazards, such as natural gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases.. If we experience any of these problems, well bores, gathering systems and processing facilities could be affected, which could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations.. We could also incur substantial losses as a result of:. •  injury or loss of life;. •  severe damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment;. •  pollution and other environmental damage;. 30. •  clean-up responsibilities;. •  regulatory investigation and penalties;. •  suspension of our operations; and. •  repairs to resume operations.. We maintain insurance against \"sudden and accidental\" occurrences, which may cover some, but not all, of the risks described above. Most significantly, the insurance we maintain will not cover the risks described above which occur over a sustained period of time. Further, there can be no assurance that such insurance will continue to be available to cover all such cost or that such insurance will be available at a cost that would justify its purchase. The occurrence of a significant event not fully insured or indemnified against could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We operate in a highly competitive industry, and our failure to remain competitive with our competitors, many of which have greater resources than we do, could adversely affect our results of operations.. The oil and natural gas industry is highly competitive in the search for and development and acquisition of reserves. Our competitors often include companies that have greater financial and personnel resources than we do. These resources could allow those competitors to price their products and services more aggressively than we can, which could hurt our profitability. Moreover, our ability to acquire additional properties and to discover reserves in the future will be dependent upon our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to close transactions in a highly competitive environment.. If oil and natural gas prices decline further or remain low for an extended period of time, we may be required to further write-down the carrying values and/or the estimates of total reserves of our oil and natural gas properties, which would constitute a non-cash charge to earnings and adversely affect our results of operations.. Accounting rules applicable to us require that we review periodically the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties for possible impairment. Based on specific market factors and circumstances at the time of prospective impairment reviews and the continuing evaluation of development plans, production data, economics and other factors, we may be required to write down the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties. A write-down constitutes a non-cash charge to earnings. We recognized impairments that totaled $801.3 million, $27.1 million and $44.0 million during 2015, 2016 and 2017, respectively, which reduced the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties.  We may incur additional non-cash charges in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period taken. We may also reduce our estimates of the reserves that may be economically recovered, which could have the effect of reducing the total value of our reserves.. Our reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in our reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves.. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating the recovery from underground accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be precisely measured. The accuracy of any reserve estimate depends on the quality of available data, production history and engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. Because all reserve estimates are to some degree imprecise, the quantities of oil and natural gas that are ultimately recovered, production and operating costs, the amount and timing of future development expenditures and future oil and natural gas prices may all differ materially from those assumed in these estimates. The information regarding present value of the future net cash flows attributable to our proved oil and natural gas reserves is only estimated and should not be construed as the current market value of the oil and natural gas reserves attributable to our properties. Thus, such. 31. information includes revisions of certain reserve estimates attributable to proved properties included in the preceding year's estimates. Such revisions reflect additional information from subsequent activities, production history of the properties involved and any adjustments in the projected economic life of such properties resulting from changes in product prices. Any future downward revisions could adversely affect our financial condition, our borrowing ability, our future prospects and the value of our common stock.. As of December 31, 2017, 59% of our total proved reserves were undeveloped and 6% were developed non-producing. These reserves may not ultimately be developed or produced. Furthermore, not all of our undeveloped or developed non-producing reserves may be ultimately produced at the time periods we have planned, at the costs we have budgeted, or at all. As a result, we may not find commercially viable quantities of oil and natural gas, which in turn may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Some of our undeveloped leasehold acreage is subject to leases that will expire unless production is established on units containing the acreage.. Leases on oil and gas properties normally have a term of three to five years and will expire unless, prior to expiration of the lease term, production in paying quantities is established.  If the leases expire and we are unable to renew them, we will lose the right to develop the related properties.  Our drilling plans for these areas are subject to change based upon various factors, including drilling results, commodity prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, availability of drilling services and equipment, gathering system and pipeline transportation constraints and regulatory approvals.. We pursue acquisitions as part of our growth strategy and there are risks in connection with acquisitions.. Our growth has been attributable in part to acquisitions of producing properties and companies. More recently we have been focused on acquiring acreage for our drilling program. We expect to continue to evaluate and, where appropriate, pursue acquisition opportunities on terms we consider favorable. However, we cannot assure you that suitable acquisition candidates will be identified in the future, or that we will be able to finance such acquisitions on favorable terms. In addition, we compete against other companies for acquisitions, and we cannot assure you that we will successfully acquire any material property interests. Further, we cannot assure you that future acquisitions by us will be integrated successfully into our operations or will increase our profits.. The successful acquisition of producing properties requires an assessment of numerous factors beyond our control, including, without limitation:. •  recoverable reserves;. •  exploration potential;. •  future oil and natural gas prices;. •  operating costs; and. •  potential environmental and other liabilities.. In connection with such an assessment, we perform a review of the subject properties that we believe to be generally consistent with industry practices. The resulting assessments are inexact and their accuracy uncertain, and such a review may not reveal all existing or potential problems, nor will it necessarily permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their merits and deficiencies. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and structural and environmental problems are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is made.. 32. Additionally, significant acquisitions can change the nature of our operations and business depending upon the character of the acquired properties, which may be substantially different in operating and geologic characteristics or geographic location than our existing properties. While our current operations are focused in Texas and Louisiana, we may pursue acquisitions or properties located in other geographic areas.. If we are unsuccessful at marketing our oil and natural gas at commercially acceptable prices, our profitability will decline.. Our ability to market oil and natural gas at commercially acceptable prices depends on, among other factors, the following:. •  the availability and capacity of gathering systems and pipelines;. •  federal and state regulation of production and transportation;. •  changes in supply and demand; and. •  general economic conditions.. Our inability to respond appropriately to changes in these factors could negatively affect our profitability.. Market conditions or operational impediments may hinder our access to oil and natural gas markets or delay our production.. Market conditions or the unavailability of satisfactory oil and natural gas transportation arrangements may hinder our access to oil and natural gas markets or delay our production. The availability of a ready market for our oil and natural gas production depends on a number of factors, including the demand for and supply of oil and natural gas and the proximity of reserves to pipelines and processing facilities. Our ability to market our production depends in a substantial part on the availability and capacity of gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities, in some cases owned and operated by third parties. Our failure to obtain such services on acceptable terms could materially harm our business. We may be required to shut in wells for a lack of a market or because of the inadequacy or unavailability of pipelines or gathering system capacity. If that were to occur, then we would be unable to realize revenue from those wells until arrangements were made to deliver our production to market.. We are subject to extensive governmental laws and regulations that may adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business.. Our operations and facilities are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the exploration for, and the development, production and transportation of, oil and natural gas, and operating safety. Future laws or regulations, any adverse changes in the interpretation of existing laws and regulations or our failure to comply with existing legal requirements may harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be required to make large and unanticipated capital expenditures to comply with governmental laws and regulations, such as:. •  lease permit restrictions;. •  drilling bonds and other financial responsibility requirements, such as plug and abandonment bonds;. •  spacing of wells;. •  unitization and pooling of properties;. •  safety precautions;. •  regulatory requirements; and. •  taxation.. 33. Under these laws and regulations, we could be liable for:. •  personal injuries;. •  property and natural resource damages;. •  well reclamation costs; and. •  governmental sanctions, such as fines and penalties.. Our operations could be significantly delayed or curtailed and our cost of operations could significantly increase as a result of regulatory requirements or restrictions. We are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements or their effect on our operations.. Our operations are substantially dependent on the availability of water. Restrictions on our ability to obtain water may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Water is an essential component of both the drilling and hydraulic fracturing processes. Historically, we have been able to purchase water from various sources for use in our operations. If we are unable to obtain water to use in our operations from local sources, we may be unable to economically produce oil and natural gas, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our operations may incur substantial liabilities to comply with environmental laws and regulations.. Our oil and natural gas operations are subject to stringent federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the release or disposal of materials into the environment and otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations:. •  require the acquisition of one or more permits before drilling commences;. •  impose limitations on where drilling can occur and/or requires mitigation before authorizing drilling in certain locations;. •  restrict the types, quantities and concentration of substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling and production activities;. •  require reporting of significant releases, and annual reporting of the nature and quantity of emissions, discharges and other releases into the environment;. •  limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; and. •  impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations.. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in:. •  the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties;. •  the incurrence of investigatory and/or remedial obligations; and. •  the imposition of injunctive relief.. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent or costly restrictions on emissions, and/or waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements could require us to make significant expenditures to reach and maintain compliance and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our industry in general and on our own results of operations, competitive position or financial condition. Under these environmental laws and regulations, we could be held strictly liable for the removal or remediation of previously released materials or property contamination regardless of whether we were responsible for the release or contamination or if our operations met previous standards in the industry at the time they were performed. Future environmental laws and regulations, including proposed legislation regulating GHGs or climate change, may negatively. 34. impact our industry. The costs of compliance with these requirements may have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our hedging transactions could result in financial losses or could reduce our income. To the extent we have hedged a significant portion of our expected production and actual production is lower than we expected or the costs of goods and services increase, our profitability would be adversely affected.. To achieve more predictable cash flows and to reduce our exposure to adverse fluctuations in the prices of oil and gas, we have entered into and may in the future enter into hedging transactions for certain of our expected oil and natural gas production. These transactions could result in both realized and unrealized hedging losses. Further, these hedges may be inadequate to protect us from continuing and prolonged declines in the price of oil and natural gas. To the extent that the prices of oil and natural gas remain at current levels or declines further, we will not be able to hedge future production at the same level as our current hedges, and our results of operations and financial condition would be negatively impacted.. The extent of our commodity price exposure is related largely to the effectiveness and scope of our derivative activities. For example, the derivative instruments we utilize are primarily based on NYMEX futures prices, which may differ significantly from the actual crude oil and gas prices we realize in our operations. Furthermore, we have adopted a policy that requires, and our revolving credit facility also requires, that we enter into derivative transactions related to only a portion of our expected production volumes and, as a result, we will continue to have direct commodity price exposure on the portion of our production volumes not covered by these derivative financial instruments.. Our actual future production may be significantly higher or lower than we estimate at the time we enter into derivative transactions. If our actual future production is higher than we estimated, we will have greater commodity price exposure than we intended. If our actual future production is lower than the nominal amount that is subject to our derivative financial instruments, we might be forced to satisfy all or a portion of our derivative transactions without the benefit of the cash flow from our sale or purchase of the underlying physical commodity, resulting in a substantial diminution in our profitability and liquidity. As a result of these factors, our derivative activities may not be as effective as we intend in reducing the volatility of our cash flows, and in certain circumstances may actually increase the volatility of our cash flows.. In addition, our hedging transactions are subject to the following risks:. •  we may be limited in receiving the full benefit of increases in oil and gas prices as a result of these transactions;. •  a counterparty may not perform its obligation under the applicable derivative financial instrument or may seek bankruptcy protection;. •  there may be a change in the expected differential between the underlying commodity price in the derivative instrument and the actual price received; and. •  the steps we take to monitor our derivative financial instruments may not detect and prevent violations of our risk management policies and procedures, particularly if deception or other intentional misconduct is involved.. 35. The enactment of derivatives legislation and regulation could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with our business.. In 2010, new comprehensive financial reform legislation, known as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (\"Dodd-Frank\"), was enacted that established federal oversight regulation of over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, such as us, that participate in that market.  Dodd-Frank requires the Commodities Futures Trading Commission, or CFTC, the SEC and other regulators to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the new legislation. The final rules adopted under Dodd-Frank identify the types of products and the classes of market participants subject to regulation and will require us in connection with certain derivatives activities to comply with clearing and trade-execution requirements (or take steps to qualify for an exemption from such requirements). While most of the regulations have been finalized, it is not possible at this time to predict with certainty the full effects of Dodd-Frank and CFTC rules on us or the timing of such effects.  We believe that Dodd-Frank and associated regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts from additional recordkeeping and reporting requirements and through requirements to post collateral which could adversely affect our available liquidity.  If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of Dodd-Frank and associated regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures.  These consequences could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Federal and state legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays as well as restrict our access to our oil and gas reserves.. Hydraulic fracturing is an essential and common practice that is used to stimulate production of oil and natural gas from dense subsurface rock formations such as shale and tight sands. We routinely apply hydraulic fracturing techniques in completing our wells. The process involves the injection of water, sand and additives under pressure into a targeted subsurface formation. The water and pressure create fractures in the rock formations, which are held open by the grains of sand, enabling the oil or natural gas to flow to the wellbore. The use of hydraulic fracturing is necessary to produce commercial quantities of oil and natural gas from many reservoirs including the Haynesville shale, Bossier shale, Eagle Ford shale, Tuscaloosa Marine shale, Cotton Valley and other tight natural gas and oil reservoirs. Substantially all of our proved oil and gas reserves that are currently not producing and our undeveloped acreage require hydraulic fracturing to be productive. All of the wells currently being drilled by us utilize hydraulic fracturing in their completion and hydraulic fracturing services comprise approximately 45% of our capital budget in 2018.. The use of hydraulic fracturing in our well completion activities could expose us to liability for negative environmental effects that might occur. Although we have not had any incidents related to hydraulic fracturing operations that we believe have caused any negative environmental effects, we have established operating procedures to respond and report any unexpected fluid discharge which might occur during our operations, including plans to remediate any spills that might occur. In the event that we were to suffer a loss related to hydraulic fracturing operations, our insurance coverage will be net of a deductible per occurrence and our ability to recover costs will be limited to a total aggregate policy limit of $26.0 million, which may or may not be sufficient to pay the full amount of our losses incurred.. Drilling and completion activities are typically regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions. Our drilling and completion activities are conducted primarily in Louisiana and Texas. Texas adopted a law in June 2012 requiring disclosure to the Railroad Commission of Texas and the public of certain. 36. information regarding the components used in the hydraulic-fracturing process.  The United States Congress has considered legislation that, if implemented, would subject the process of hydraulic fracturing to regulation under the Safe Drinking Water Act. In June 2015, the EPA released a draft report on the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources, which concluded that hydraulic fracturing activities have not led to widespread, systemic impacts on drinking water resources in the United States, although there may be above and below ground mechanisms by which hydraulic fracturing activities have the potential to impact drinking water resources. The draft report was finalized in December 2016. Other governmental agencies, including the U.S. Department of Energy, have evaluated or are evaluating various other aspects of hydraulic fracturing. These ongoing or proposed studies have the potential to impact the likelihood or scope of future legislation or regulation.. State and federal regulatory agencies have recently focused on a possible connection between the hydraulic fracturing related activities and the increased occurrence of seismic activity. When caused by human activity, such events are called induced seismicity. In a few instances, operators of injection wells in the vicinity of seismic events have been ordered to reduce injection volumes or suspend operations. Some state regulatory agencies, including those in Colorado, Ohio, Oklahoma, and Texas, have modified their regulations to account for induced seismicity. Regulatory agencies at all levels are continuing to study the possible linkage between oil and gas activity and induced seismicity. A 2012 report published by the National Academy of Sciences concluded that only a very small fraction of the tens of thousands of injection wells have been suspected to be, or have been, the likely cause of induced seismicity; and a 2015 report by researchers at the University of Texas has suggested that the link between seismic activity and wastewater disposal may vary by region. In 2015, the United States Geological Survey identified eight states, including Texas, with areas of increased rates of induced seismicity that could be attributed to fluid injection or oil and gas extraction. More recently, in March 2016, the United States Geological Survey identified six states with the most significant hazards from induced seismicity, including Texas, Colorado, Oklahoma, Kansas, New Mexico, and Arkansas.  In addition, a number of lawsuits have been filed, most recently in Oklahoma, alleging that disposal well operations have caused damage to neighboring properties or otherwise violated state and federal rules regulating waste disposal. These developments could result in additional regulation and restrictions on the use of injection wells and hydraulic fracturing.. Changes in taxation as well as the inherent difficulty in quantifying potential tax effects of business decisions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows.. We make judgments regarding the utilization of existing income tax credits and the potential tax effects of various financial transactions and results of operations to estimate our obligations to taxing authorities.  Tax obligations include income, franchise, real estate, sales and use, and employment-related taxes.  These judgments include reserves for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that have been taken.  Changes in federal, state, or local tax laws, adverse tax audit results, or adverse tax rulings on positions taken by us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows.. The Budget Reconciliation Act, commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (hereinafter \"Tax Cuts and Jobs Act\"), was signed into law on December 22, 2017.  In 2017 the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act resulted in a net tax benefit to us of approximately $19.1 million, which is attributable primarily to the termination of the corporate alternative minimum tax.  The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is expected to have a favorable impact on our effective tax rate and net income as reported under generally accepted accounting principles in future reporting periods to which the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is effective.  However, we are still assessing the full impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, including the impact on state taxes, and there can be no assurances that it will have a favorable impact on us or our future financial results.. 37. Loss of our information and computer systems could adversely affect our business.. We are heavily dependent on our information systems and computer-based programs, including our well operations information, seismic data, electronic data processing and accounting data.  If any of such programs or systems were to fail or create erroneous information in our hardware or software network infrastructure or we were subject to cyberspace breaches or attacks, possible consequences include our loss of communication links, inability to find, produce, process and sell oil and natural gas and inability to automatically process commercial transactions or engage in similar automated or computerized business activities.  Any such consequence could have a material effect on our business.. Our business could be negatively impacted by security threats, including cyber-security threats and other disruptions.. As an oil and natural gas producer, we face various security threats, including cyber-security threats to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information or to render data or systems unusable, threats to the safety of our employees, threats to the security or operation of our facilities and infrastructure or third party facilities and infrastructure, such as processing plants and pipelines, and threats from terrorist acts.  Cyber-security attacks in particular are evolving and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data.  Although we utilize various procedures and controls to monitor and protect against these threats and to mitigate our exposure to such threats, there can be no assurance that these procedures and controls will be sufficient in preventing security threats from materializing.  If any of these events were to materialize, either to the Company or a third party upon which we rely, they could lead to losses of sensitive information, critical infrastructure, personnel or capabilities, essential to our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.. We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers and counterparties, and our credit risk management may not be adequate to protect against such risk.. We are subject to the risk of loss resulting from nonpayment and/or nonperformance by our customers and counterparties in the ordinary course of our business.  Our credit procedures and policies may not be adequate to fully eliminate customer and counterparty credit risk particularly in light of the sustained declines in oil and natural gas prices since mid-2014.  We cannot predict to what extent our business would be impacted by deteriorating conditions in the economy, including declines in our customers' and counterparties' creditworthiness.  If we fail to adequately assess the creditworthiness of existing or future customers and counterparties, unanticipated deterioration in their creditworthiness and any resulting increase in nonpayment and/or nonperformance by them could cause us to write-down or write-off doubtful accounts.  Such write-downs or write-offs could negatively affect our operating results in the periods in which they occur and, if significant, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. Substantial exploration and development activities could require significant outside capital, which could dilute the value of our common shares and restrict our activities. Also, we may not be able to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a limitation of our future business opportunities and a decline in our oil and natural gas reserves.. We expect to expend substantial capital in the acquisition of, exploration for and development of oil and natural gas reserves. In order to finance these activities, we may need to alter or increase our capitalization substantially through the issuance of debt or equity securities, the sale of non-strategic. 38. assets or other means. The issuance of additional equity securities could have a dilutive effect on the value of our common shares, and may not be possible on terms acceptable to us given the current volatility in the financial markets. The issuance of additional debt would likely require that a portion of our cash flow from operations be used for the payment of interest on our debt, thereby reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividends and general corporate requirements, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to other competitors. Our cash flow from operations and access to capital is subject to a number of variables, including:. •  our estimated proved reserves;. •  the level of oil and natural gas we are able to produce from existing wells;. •  our ability to extract natural gas liquids from the natural gas we produce;. •  the prices at which oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas are sold; and. •  our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves.. If our revenues decrease as a result of lower oil or natural gas prices, operating difficulties or declines in reserves, our ability to obtain the capital necessary to undertake or complete future exploration and development programs and to pursue other opportunities may be limited, which could result in a curtailment of our operations relating to exploration and development of our prospects, which in turn could result in a decline in our oil and natural gas reserves.. The unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or qualified personnel and oilfield services could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans on a timely basis and within our budget.. Our industry has experienced a shortage of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies and qualified personnel in prior years as the result of higher demand for these services. Shortages of drilling rigs, equipment or supplies or qualified personnel in the areas in which we operate could delay or restrict our exploration and development operations, which in turn could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations because of our concentration in those areas.. We depend on our key personnel and the loss of any of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our operations.. We believe that the success of our business strategy and our ability to operate profitably depend on the continued employment of M. Jay Allison, our Chief Executive Officer, and Roland O. Burns, our President and Chief Financial Officer, and a limited number of other senior management personnel. Loss of the services of Mr. Allison, Mr. Burns or any of those other individuals could have a material adverse effect on our operations.. Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient or may not be available to cover some liabilities or losses that we may incur.. If we suffer a significant accident or other loss, our insurance coverage will be net of our deductibles and may not be sufficient to pay the full current market value or current replacement value of our lost investment, which could result in a material adverse impact on our operations and financial condition. Our insurance does not protect us against all operational risks. We do not carry business interruption insurance. For some risks, we may not obtain insurance if we believe the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. Because third party drilling contractors are used to drill our. 39. wells, we may not realize the full benefit of workers' compensation laws in dealing with their employees. In addition, some risks, including pollution and environmental risks, generally are not fully insurable.. Provisions of our restated articles of incorporation, bylaws and Nevada law will make it more difficult to effect a change in control of us, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock.. Nevada corporate law and our restated articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could delay, defer or prevent a change in control of us. These provisions include:. •  allowing for authorized but unissued shares of common and preferred stock;. •  requiring special stockholder meetings to be called only by our chairman of the board, our chief executive officer, a majority of the board, a majority of our executive committee or the holders of a majority  of our outstanding stock;. •  requiring removal of directors by a supermajority stockholder vote;. •  prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; and. •  Nevada control share laws that may limit voting rights in shares representing a controlling interest in us.. These provisions could make an acquisition of us by means of a tender offer or proxy contest or removal of our incumbent directors more difficult. As a result, these provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders, which may limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock."
