[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our securities involves risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, in addition to those discussed elsewhere in this report, in evaluating our Company, its business, its industry and prospects. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also have a material adverse effect on us. The following risks could cause our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows to be materially and adversely affected. In that case, the market price of our securities could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment.. You may lose all or part of your investment.. If we are unable to find, effectively develop, mine, recover and sell adequate quantities of gold and silver, it is unlikely that the cash generated from our internal operations will suffice as a source of the liquidity necessary for anticipated working capital requirements. There is no assurance that the Company's initiatives to improve its liquidity and financial position will be successful. Accordingly, there is substantial risk that the Company will be unable to continue as a going concern. In the event of insolvency, liquidation, reorganization, dissolution or other winding up of the Company, the Company's creditors would be entitled to payment in full out of the Company's assets before holders of common stock would be entitled to any payment, and the claims on such assets may exceed the value of such assets.. We have a limited operating history.. We have a limited operating history. The success of our Company is significantly dependent on the uncertain events of the discovery and exploitation of mineralized materials on our properties or selling the rights to exploit those materials. If our business plan is not successful and we are not able to operate profitably, then our securities may become worthless and investors may lose all of their investment in our Company.. Because we may never earn significant revenues from our mine operations, our business may fail.. We recognize that if we are unable to generate significant revenues from the exploration and exploitation of our mineralized materials in the future, we will not be able to earn profits or continue operations. We have yet to generate positive earnings and there can be no assurance that we will ever operate profitably. There is no history upon which to base any assumption as to the likelihood that we will prove successful, and we can provide no assurance that we will generate significant revenues or ever achieve profitability. If we are unsuccessful, our business will fail and investors may lose all of their investment in our Company.. Transportation difficulties and weather interruptions may affect and delay proposed mining operations and impact our business plans.. Our mining properties are accessible by road. The climate in the area is hot and dry in the summer but cold and subject to snow and other precipitation in the winter, which could at times hamper accessibility depending on the winter season precipitation levels. As a result, our exploration and mining plans could be delayed for several months each year. Such delays could affect our anticipated business operations and increase our expenses.. Moreover, extreme weather events (such as increased frequency or intensity of hurricanes or prolonged drought, flooded or frozen terrain) have the potential to disrupt operations at our projects. Extended disruptions to supply lines due to extreme weather could result in interruption of activities at the project sites, delay or increase the cost of construction of the projects, or otherwise adversely affect our business.. Supplies and equipment needed for exploration may not always be available. If we are unable to secure exploration supplies we may have to delay our anticipated business operations.. Competition and unforeseen limited sources of supplies needed for our proposed exploration work could result in occasional shortages of supplies of certain products, equipment or materials. There is no guarantee we will be able to obtain certain products, equipment and/or materials as and when needed, without interruption, or on favorable terms, if at all. Such delays could affect our anticipated business operations and increase our expenses.. 12. We have invested capital in high-risk mineral projects where we have not conducted sufficient exploration and engineering studies.. We have invested capital and have otherwise been involved in various mineral properties and projects in the Comstock District where we have not conducted sufficient exploration and engineering studies to minimize the risk of project failure. Our mineral projects involve high risks because we have not invested sufficiently in the characterization of mineralized material, geologic analysis, metallurgical testing, mine planning and economic analysis. Standard industry practice calls for a mining company to prepare a formal mine plan and mining production schedule and have these documents reviewed and validated by a third party specialist. We have not had a formal mine plan and mining production schedule economically validated by a third party specialist.. We will not be successful unless we recover precious metals and sell them for a profit.. Our success depends on our ability to recover precious metals, process them, and successfully sell them for more than the cost of production. The success of this process depends on the market prices of metals in relation to our costs of production. We may not be able to generate a profit on the sale of gold or other minerals because we have limited control over our costs and have no ability to control the market prices. The total cash costs of production at any location are frequently subject to great variation from year to year as a result of a number of factors, such as the changing composition of the grade of the mineralized material mined for production, and metallurgy and exploration activities in response to the physical shape and location of the mineral deposit. In addition, costs are affected by the price of commodities, such as fuel and electricity. Such commodities are at times subject to volatile price movements, including increases that could make production unprofitable. A material increase in production costs or a decrease in the price of gold or other minerals could adversely affect our ability to earn a profit on the sale of gold or other minerals.. We do not have proven or probable reserves, and there is no assurance that the quantities of precious metals we produce will be sufficient to recover our investment and operating costs.. We do not have proven or probable reserves. Substantial expenditures are required to acquire existing gold properties with established reserves or to establish proven or probable reserves through drilling, analysis and engineering. Any sums expended for additional drilling, analysis and engineering may not establish proven or probable reserves on our properties. We drill in connection with our mineral exploration and mining activities and not with the purpose of establishing proven and probable reserves. While we estimate the amount of mineralized material we believe exists on our properties, our calculations are subject to uncertainty due to several factors, including the quantity and grade of the mineralized material, metal prices and recoverability of minerals in the mineral recovery process. There is a great degree of uncertainty attributable to the calculation of any mineralized material, particularly where there has not been significant drilling, mining and processing. Until the mineralized material located on our properties is actually mined and processed, the quantity and quality of the mineralized material must be considered as an estimate only. In addition, the estimated value of such mineralized material (regardless of the quantity) will vary depending on metal prices. Any material change in the estimated value of mineralized material may negatively affect the economic viability of our properties. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will achieve the same recoveries of metals contained in the mineralized material as in small-scale laboratory tests or that we will be able to duplicate such results in larger scale tests under on-site conditions or during production. There can be no assurance that our exploration activities will result in the discovery of sufficient quantities of mineralized material to recover our investment and operating costs.. The cost of our exploration and acquisition activities is substantial, and there is no assurance that the quantities of minerals we discover or acquire will justify commercial operations or replace reserves (to the extent reserves are established in the future).. Mineral exploration, particularly for gold and other precious metals, is highly speculative in nature and frequently is nonproductive. There can be no assurance that our exploration and acquisition activities will be commercially successful. If gold mineralization is discovered, it may take a number of years from the initial phases of drilling until production is possible, during which time the economic feasibility of production may change. Substantial expenditures are required to acquire existing gold properties, to establish mineral reserves through drilling and analysis, to develop metallurgical processes to extract metal from the mineralized material, and in the case of new properties, to develop the processing facilities and infrastructure at any site chosen for mineral exploration. There can be no assurance that any gold reserves or mineralized material that may be discovered or acquired in the future, if any, will be in sufficient quantities or of adequate grade to justify commercial operations or that the funds required for mineral production operation can be obtained on a timely or reasonable basis, if at all. Mining companies must continually replace mineralized material or reserves depleted by production. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in replacing any reserves or mineralized material acquired or established in the future.. 13. The price of gold and silver fluctuate on a regular basis and a downturn in price could negatively impact our operations and cash flow.. Our operations will be significantly affected by changes in the market price of gold and silver if we are able to produce gold or other minerals. Gold and silver prices can fluctuate widely and may be affected by numerous factors, such as expectations for inflation, levels of interest rates, currency exchange rates, purchases and sales by governments and central banks, monetary policies employed by the world's major central banks, fiscal policies employed by the world's major industrialized economies, forward selling or other hedging activities, demand for precious metals, global or regional political and economic crises and production costs in major gold-producing regions, such as but not limited to South Africa and the former Soviet Union. The aggregate effect of these factors, all of which are beyond our control, is impossible for us to predict. If gold or silver prices decline substantially, it could adversely affect the realizable value of our assets and potentially, future results of operations and cash flow.. We plan to pursue opportunities to acquire properties with gold or silver reserves or mineralized material with exploration potential. The price that we pay to acquire these properties will be influenced, in large part, by the price of gold and silver at the time of the acquisition. We expect our potential future revenues to be derived from the production and sale of gold and silver from these properties or from the sale of some of these properties. The value of any mineralized material, and the value of any potential mineral production therefrom, will vary in direct proportion to variations in those mineral prices. The price of gold and silver has fluctuated widely as a result of numerous factors beyond our control. The effect of these factors on the price of gold and silver, and therefore the economic viability of our projects, cannot accurately be predicted. Any drop in the price of gold or silver would negatively affect our asset values, cash flows, potential revenues and profits.. The use of hedging instruments may not prevent losses being realized on subsequent price decreases or may prevent gains being realized from subsequent price increases.. We may from time to time sell some future production of gold pursuant to hedge positions. If the gold price rises above the price at which future production has been committed under these hedge instruments, we will have an opportunity loss. If the gold price falls below that committed price, we may experience losses if a hedge counterparty defaults under a contract when the contract price exceeds the gold price. As of December 31, 2017, we have no open hedge positions.. We compete with other mineral exploration and mining companies which could lead to the loss of opportunities.. We compete with other mineral exploration and mining companies or individuals, including large, established mining companies with substantial capabilities and financial resources, to acquire rights to mineral properties containing gold and other minerals. There is a limited supply of desirable lands available for claim staking, lease or other acquisition. There can be no assurance that we will be able to acquire such properties when competing against competitors with substantially greater financial resources than we have.. The estimation of the ultimate recovery of gold and silver is subjective. Actual recoveries may vary from our estimates.. We utilize the heap leach process to extract gold and silver from mineralized material. The heap leach process extracts gold and silver by placing mineralized material on an impermeable pad and applying a diluted cyanide solution that dissolves a portion of the contained gold and silver, which are then recovered in metallurgical processes. We use several integrated steps in the process of extracting gold and silver to estimate the metal content of the mineralized material placed on the leach pad. The final amounts are not determined until a third-party smelter converts the doré and determines final ounces of gold and silver available for sale. We then review this end result and reconcile it to the estimates we developed and used throughout the production process. Based on this review, we adjust our estimation procedures when appropriate. Due to the complexity of the estimation process and the number of steps involved, among other things, actual recoveries can vary from estimates, and the amount of the variation could be significant and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. Resource and other mineralized material statements are estimates only, and are subject to uncertainty due to factors including metal prices, inherent variability of the mineralized material and recoverability of metal in the mining process.. Our reports of mineral resources, other mineralized material and grading are estimates and depend upon geological interpretation and statistical inferences or assumptions drawn from drilling and sampling analysis, which may prove to be unpredictable. There is a degree of uncertainty attributable to the calculation of mineral resources and corresponding grades. Until mineral resources and other mineralized materials are actually mined and processed, the quantity of mineralized material. 14. and grades must be considered as an estimate only. In addition, the quantity of mineral resources and other mineralized materials may vary depending on metal prices. Any material change in the quantity of mineral resources, other mineralized materials, mineralization, grade or stripping ratio may affect the economic viability of our properties. In addition, we can provide no assurance that gold recoveries or other metal recoveries experienced in small-scale laboratory tests will be duplicated in larger scale tests under on-site conditions or during production.. Our mining production depends on the availability of sufficient water supplies.. Our mining operations require significant quantities of water for mining, processing and related support facilities. Most of our mining operations are in areas where water is scarce and competition among users for continuing access to water is significant. Continuous production at our mines is dependent on our ability to maintain our water rights and claims, and the continuing physical availability of the water supplies.. Cost estimates and timing of new projects are uncertain, which may adversely affect our expected production and profitability.. The capital expenditures and time required to develop and explore our properties, including the Lucerne Mine and Dayton resource areas, are considerable and changes in costs, construction schedules or both, can adversely affect project economics and expected production and profitability. There are a number of factors that can affect costs and construction schedules, including, among others:. • availability of labor, energy, transportation, equipment, and infrastructure;. • changes in input commodity prices and labor costs;. • fluctuations in currency exchange rates;. • availability and terms of financing;. • changes in anticipated tonnage, grade and metallurgical characteristics of the mineralized material to be mined and processed;. • recovery rates of gold and other metals from the mineralized material;. • difficulty of estimating construction costs over a period of a year;. • delays in completing any environmental review or in obtaining environmental or other government permits;. • weather and severe climate impacts; and. • potential delays related to social, political and community issues.. We may experience increased costs or losses resulting from the hazards and uncertainties associated with mining.. The exploration for natural resources and the development and production of mining operations are activities that involve a high level of uncertainty. These can be difficult to predict and are often affected by risks and hazards outside of our control. These factors include, but are not limited to:. • environmental hazards, including discharge of metals, concentrates, pollutants or hazardous chemicals;. • industrial accidents, including in connection with the operation of mining transportation equipment, milling equipment and/or conveyor systems and accidents associated with the preparation and ignition of large-scale blasting operations, milling, processing and transportation of chemicals, explosives or other materials;. • surface or underground fires or floods;. • unexpected geological formations or conditions (whether in mineral or gaseous form);. • ground and water conditions;. • fall-of-ground accidents in underground operations;. • failure of mining pit slopes and tailings dam walls;. • seismic activity; and. • other natural phenomena, such as lightning, cyclonic or tropical storms, floods or other inclement weather conditions.. Our activities are inherently hazardous and any exposure may exceed our insurance limits or may not be insurable.. Mineral exploration and operating activities are inherently hazardous. Operations in which we have direct or indirect interests will be subject to all the hazards and risks normally incidental to exploration and production of gold and other metals, any of which could result in work stoppages, damage to property and possible environmental damage. The nature of these risks is such that liabilities might exceed any applicable liability insurance policy limits. It is also possible that the liabilities and hazards might not be insurable, or we could elect not to insure ourselves against such liabilities because of the high premium costs, in which event, we could incur significant costs that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.. 15. Our ability to execute our strategic plans depends upon our success in obtaining a variety of required governmental approvals that may be opposed by third-parties.. We do not possess all of the governmental approvals necessary to conduct the full extent of the operations contemplated by our strategic plan. Those operations will be delayed, hindered or prevented to the extent that we are unable to obtain the necessary permits and approvals in a timely fashion or at all. This inability may occur due to a variety of factors, including opposition by third parties, such as members of the public or environmental groups. We expect that future permit and approval applications and issuances will meet with similar opposition. We may encounter delays and added costs if permits and approvals are challenged.. Mining companies are increasingly required to consider and provide benefits to the communities in which they operate.. As a result of public concern about the real or perceived detrimental effects of economic globalization and global climate impacts, businesses generally, and corporations in natural resource industries, face increasing public scrutiny of their activities. These businesses are under pressure to demonstrate that, as they seek to generate satisfactory returns on investment to shareholders, other stakeholders, including employees, governments, and communities surrounding operations benefit and will continue to benefit from their commercial activities. Such pressures tend to be particularly focused on companies whose activities are perceived to have a high impact on their social and physical environment. The potential consequences of these pressures include reputational damage, legal suits, increasing social investment obligations and pressure to increase taxes and royalties payable to governments and communities.. Our operations are subject to strict environmental laws and regulations, which could result in added costs of operations and operational delays.. Our operations are subject to strict environmental regulations, which could result in additional costs and operational delays. All phases of our operations are subject to environmental regulation. Environmental legislation is evolving in the United States generally, and Nevada specifically, in a manner that may require stricter standards and enforcement, increased fines and penalties for non-compliance, more stringent environmental assessments of proposed projects, and a heightened degree of responsibility for companies and their officers, directors, and employees. There is no assurance that any future changes in environmental regulation will not negatively affect our projects.. At the state level, mining operations in Nevada are regulated by the Nevada Division of Environmental Protection (\"NDEP\"). Nevada state law requires our Nevada projects to hold Nevada water pollution control permits, which dictate operating controls and closure and post-closure requirements directed at protecting surface and ground water. In addition, we are required to hold Nevada reclamation permits required under Nevada law. These permits mandate concurrent and post-mining reclamation of mines and require the posting of reclamation bonds sufficient to guarantee the cost of mine reclamation. Other Nevada regulations govern operating and design standards for the construction and operation of any source of air contamination and landfill operations. Any changes to these laws and regulations could have a negative impact on our financial performance and results of operations by, for example, requiring changes to operating constraints, technical criteria, fees or surety requirements.. Regulations and pending legislation governing issues involving climate change could result in increased operating costs which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our business is an energy-intensive undertaking, resulting in a significant carbon footprint. A number of governments or governmental bodies have introduced or are contemplating regulatory changes in response to the potential impacts of climate change that are viewed as the result of emissions from the combustion of carbon-based fuels. Legislation and increased regulation and requirements regarding climate change could impose increased costs on us and our suppliers, including increased energy, capital equipment, environmental monitoring and reporting and other costs to comply with such regulations. Until the timing, scope and extent of any future requirements becomes known, we cannot predict the effect on our financial condition, financial position, results of operations and ability to compete.. 16. Because our land holdings are within the Carson River Mercury Superfund Site, our operations are subject to certain soil sampling and potential remediation requirements, which may result in added costs and delays; and we are also potentially subject to further costs as the result of on-going government investigation and future remediation decisions.. Substantially all of our land holdings are within the Carson River Mercury Superfund Site (CRMS) Study Area and portions are within the risk area boundaries identified by NDEP and the United States Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA). These risk areas have been defined due to the known or suspected presence of certain contaminants of concern, including mercury, arsenic and lead. To comply with the agencies' requirements in these areas, the Company conducts soil sampling pursuant to a plan that has been approved by NDEP. This sampling is intended to demonstrate the absence of contamination before mining, processing or other operations in that area. If contamination above agency-established levels of concern is encountered, the Company intends to excavate and process such materials for metals recovery wherever feasible. If metals recovery is not feasible, the Company may avoid or defer excavating in that area, remove the materials for disposal, or cover the area with clean fill material. Through this sampling program and, if necessary, removal of contaminated materials, the Company intends to enable NDEP and USEPA to better define the Carson River Superfund Site and the currently designated risk areas so as to eventually exclude our land holdings from such areas and from the Site itself to the maximum extent feasible. NDEP and USEPA are continuing to study the ecological and human health risks that may be presented by contaminated sediments in certain portions of the Carson River watershed and downstream areas. The agencies' studies indicate that these contaminants are primarily associated with historic mining tailings that have been redistributed into these waterways. The agencies have not adopted a remedial plan for these sediments nor have they decided whether remediation will be undertaken. Thus, there is no assurance that the Company will not be asked to undertake additional investigatory or remediation activities or to pay for such activities by the agencies or that future changes in CRMS-related requirements will not negatively affect our operations.. Our insurance and surety bonds for environmental-related issues are limited.. Our insurance and surety bonds against environmental risks are limited as to the maximum protection against potential liability for pollution or other hazards as a result of the disposal of waste products occurring from exploration and production. Further, there is no assurance that insurance carriers or surety bond providers will be able to meet their obligations under our arrangements with them. In the event that our environmental liabilities and costs exceed the coverage provided by our insurance carriers and surety bond providers or such parties are unable to meet their obligations, we would have limited funds available to us to remedy such liabilities or costs or for future operations. If we are unable to fund the cost of remedying an environmental problem, we also might be required to enter into an interim compliance measure pending completion of the required remedy.. We are subject to federal and state laws that require environmental assessments and the posting of bonds, which add significant costs to our operations and delays in our projects.. Mining companies must post a bond or other surety to guarantee the cost of post-mining reclamation. These requirements could add significant additional cost and delays to any mining project undertaken by us. Our mineral exploration operations are required to be covered by reclamation bonds deemed adequate by regulators to cover these risks.. BLM requires that mining operations on lands subject to its regulation obtain an approved plan of operations subject to environmental impact evaluation under the National Environmental Policy Act (\"NEPA\"). Any submission or significant modification to a plan of operations may also require the completion of an environmental assessment or Environmental Impact Statement (\"EIS\") prior to approval.. The Company's costs of close- down, reclamation and rehabilitation could be higher than expected.. Close-down and reclamation works to return operating sites to the community can be extensive and costly. Estimated costs are provided for, and updated annually, over the life of each operation but the provisions might prove to be inadequate due to changes in legislation, standards and the emergence of new, or increases in the cost of, reclamation techniques. In addition, the expected timing of expenditure could change significantly due to changes in the business environment that might vary the life of an operation.. 17. We may be subject to litigation.. We may be subject to legal proceedings. Due to the nature of our business, we may be subject to a variety of regulatory investigations, claims, lawsuits and other proceedings in the ordinary course of our business. The results of these legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty due to the uncertainty inherent in litigation, including the effects of discovery of new evidence or advancement of new legal theories, the difficulty of predicting decisions of judges and juries and the possibility that decisions may be reversed on appeal. There can be no assurances that these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our business.. Title claims against our properties could require us to compensate parties making such claims, if successful, and divert management's time from operations.. There may be challenges to our title in the properties in which we hold material interests. If there are title defects with respect to any of our properties, we might be required to compensate other persons or perhaps reduce our interest in the affected property. The validity of unpatented mineral claims, which constitute most of our holdings in the United States, is often uncertain and may be contested by the federal government and other parties. The validity of an unpatented mineral claim, in terms of both its location and its maintenance, depends on strict compliance with a complex body of federal and state, statutory and decisional law. Although we have attempted to acquire satisfactory title to our properties, we have not obtained title opinions or title insurance with respect to the acquisition of the unpatented mineral claims. The investigation and resolution of title issues would divert management's time from ongoing exploration programs.. Our business depends on a limited number of key personnel, the loss of whom could negatively affect us.. Our officers and employees are important to our success. If any of them becomes unable or unwilling to continue in their respective positions, and we are unable to find suitable replacements, our business and financial results could be materially negatively affected.. Our business may be adversely affected by information technology disruptions.. Cybersecurity incidents are increasing in frequency, evolving in nature and include, but are not limited to, installation of malicious software, unauthorized access to data and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and the corruption of data. We believe that we have implemented appropriate measures to mitigate potential risks. However, given the unpredictability of the timing, nature and scope of information technology disruptions, we could be subject to manipulation or improper use of our systems and networks or financial losses from remedial actions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We rely on contractors to conduct a significant portion of our operations and construction projects.. A significant portion of our operations and construction projects are currently conducted in whole or in part by contractors. As a result, our operations are subject to a number of risks, some of which are outside our control, including:. • negotiating agreements with contractors on acceptable terms;. • the inability to replace a contractor and its operating equipment in the event that either party terminates the agreement;. • reduced control over those aspects of operations which are the responsibility of the contractor;. • failure of a contractor to perform under its agreement;. • interruption of operations or increased costs in the event that a contractor ceases its business due to insolvency or other unforeseen events;. • failure of a contractor to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements, to the extent it is responsible for such compliance; and. • problems of a contractor with managing its workforce, labor unrest or other employment issues.. In addition, we may incur liability to third parties as a result of the actions of our contractors. The occurrence of one or more of these risks could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position.. 18. Our business requires substantial capital investment and we may be unable to raise additional funding on favorable terms.. The construction and operation of potential future projects and various exploration projects will require significant funding. Our operating cash flow and other sources of funding may become insufficient to meet all of these requirements, depending on the timing and costs of development of these and other projects. As a result, new sources of capital may be needed to meet the funding requirements of these investments and fund our ongoing business activities. Our ability to raise and service significant new sources of capital will be a function of macroeconomic conditions, future gold and silver prices, our operational performance and our current cash flow and debt position, among other factors. In the event of lower gold and silver prices, unanticipated operating or financial challenges, or a further dislocation in the financial markets as experienced in recent years, our ability to pursue new business opportunities, invest in existing and new projects, fund our ongoing operations and retire or service all of our outstanding debt could be significantly constrained.. We may not be successful in selling off non-mining related assets.. Our short-term plans include the sale of non-core, non-strategic, non-mining assets. The success of these plans depends on the market prices and demand for the purchase of such assets. We may not be able to generate sufficient funds from the sale of these assets to pay off our indebtedness or offset our other liquidity needs.. Our substantial indebtedness and payment obligations could adversely affect our operations, financial condition, cash flow, and operating flexibility.. Our significant amount of outstanding indebtedness and lease payment obligations, and the covenants contained in our debt agreements and documents governing such obligations could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. The size and terms of certain of our agreements limits our ability to obtain additional debt financing to fund future working capital, acquisitions, capital expenditures, engineering and product development costs, and other general corporate requirements. Other consequences for our operations could include:. • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our other indebtedness, which could in turn result in an event of default on such other indebtedness;. • impairing our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes;. • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to debt service payments, thereby reducing the availability of cash for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes;. • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and. • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have proportionately less debt.. Our ability to make required payments of principal and interest on our debt will depend on our future performance and the other cash requirements of our business. Our performance is subject to general economic, political, financial, competitive, and other factors that are beyond our control in addition to challenges that are unique to the Company. We cannot provide any assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness and lease obligations.. Our debt and lease agreements contain certain restrictive covenants and customary events of default. These restrictive covenants limit our ability to take certain actions, such as, among other things: make restricted payments; incur additional debt and issue certain preferred stock; create liens; engage in mergers or consolidations or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; make certain dispositions and transfers of assets; place limitations on the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to make distributions; enter into transactions with affiliates; and guarantee indebtedness. One or more of these restrictive covenants may limit our ability to execute our preferred business strategy, take advantage of business opportunities, or react to changing industry conditions.. Upon an event of default, if not waived by our financing parties, our financing parties may declare all amounts outstanding as due and payable, which may cause cross-defaults under our other obligations. If our current financing parties accelerate the maturity of our indebtedness or obligations, we may not have sufficient capital available at that time to pay the amounts due to our financing parties on a timely basis, and there is no guarantee that we would be able to repay, refinance, or restructure the payments on such debt and lease obligations. Further, the financing parties would have the right to foreclose on certain of our assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our Company.. 19. Our stock is a penny stock and trading of our stock may be restricted by the SEC's penny stock regulations, which may limit a stockholder's ability to buy and sell our stock.. Our stock is a penny stock. Rule 3a51-1 generally defines \"penny stock\" to be any equity security that has a market price (as defined) less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. Our securities are covered by the penny stock rules, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that sell to persons other than established customers and \"accredited investors.\" The term \"accredited investor\" refers generally to institutions with assets in excess of $5,000,000 or individuals with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 (excluding one's primary residence) or annual income exceeding $200,000 individually or $300,000 jointly with their spouse. The penny stock rules (including Rule 15g-9) require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document in a form prepared by the SEC, which provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction, and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer's account. The bid and offer quotations, and the broker-dealer and salesperson compensation information, must be given to the customer orally or in writing prior to effecting the transaction and must be given to the customer in writing before or with the customer's confirmation. In addition, the penny stock rules require that, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for the stock that is subject to these penny stock rules. Consequently, these penny stock rules may affect the ability of broker-dealers to trade our securities. We believe that the penny stock rules discourage investor interest in and limit the marketability of our common stock. The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) sales practice requirements may also limit a stockbroker's ability to buy or sell our stock.. In addition to the \"penny stock\" rules promulgated by the SEC, FINRA has adopted rules that require that in recommending an investment to a customer, a broker-dealer must have reasonable grounds for believing that the investment is suitable for that customer. Prior to recommending speculative low priced securities to their non-institutional customers, broker-dealers must make reasonable efforts to obtain information about the customer's financial status, tax status, investment objectives, and other information. Under interpretation of these rules, FINRA believes that there is a high probability that speculative low priced securities will not be suitable for at least some customers. The FINRA requirements make it more difficult for broker-dealers to recommend that their customers buy our common stock, which may limit your ability to buy or sell our stock and have an adverse effect on the market for our shares.. If we are unable to maintain the listing standards of the NYSE American, our common stock may be delisted, which may have a material adverse effect on the liquidity and value of our common stock.. Our common stock is traded on the NYSE American. To maintain our listing on the NYSE American, we must meet certain financial and liquidity criteria. The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to significant fluctuation as a result of periodic variations in our revenues and results of operations. If we fail to meet any of the NYSE American's listing standards, we may be delisted. In the event of delisting, trading of our common stock would most likely be conducted in the over the counter market on an electronic bulletin board established for unlisted securities, which could have a material adverse effect on the market liquidity and value of our common stock.. The price of the Company's common stock may fluctuate significantly, which could negatively affect the Company and holders of its common stock.. The market price of the Company's common stock may fluctuate significantly from time to time as a result of many factors, including:. • investors' perceptions of the Company and its prospects;. • investors' perceptions of the Company's and/or the industry's risk and return characteristics relative to other investment alternatives;. • investors' perceptions of the prospects of the mining and commodities markets;. • difficulties between actual financial and operating results and those expected by investors and analysts;. • our inability to obtain permits or otherwise fail to reach Company objectives;. • changes in our capital structure;. • trading volume fluctuations;. • actual or anticipated fluctuations in quarterly financial and operational results;. • volatility in the equity securities market; and. • sales, or anticipated sales, of large blocks of the Company's common stock.. 20. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. We have relatively little research coverage by securities and industry analysts. If no additional industry analysts commence coverage of the Company, the trading price for our common stock could be negatively impacted. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrades our common stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us or fail to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our common stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline.. We do not expect to pay any cash dividends for the foreseeable future.. We currently expect to retain all available funds and future earnings, if any, for use in the operation and growth of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any future determination to pay cash dividends will be at the discretion of our Board, subject to compliance with applicable law, our organizational documents and any contractual provisions, including under agreements for indebtedness we may incur, that restrict or limit our ability to pay dividends, and will depend upon, among other factors, our results of operations, financial condition, earnings, capital requirements and other factors that our Board deems relevant. Investors seeking cash dividends in the foreseeable future should not purchase our common stock.. The concentrated beneficial ownership of our common stock and the ability it affords to control our business may limit or eliminate other shareholders' ability to influence corporate affairs.. Based on filings made with the SEC, Mr. John V. Winfield, and entities that he controls (the \"Winfield Group\") own 10,135,648 shares of the Company's common stock, or 20.4%. Separately, Van Den Berg Management, Inc. owns 5,588,077 shares of the Company's common stock, or 11.2%. Because of this concentrated stock ownership, the Company's largest shareholders could be in a position to significantly influence the election of our board of directors and all other decisions on all matters requiring shareholder approval. As a result, the ability of other shareholders to determine the management and policies of the Company is significantly limited. The interests of these shareholders may differ from the interests of other shareholders with respect to the issuance of shares, business transactions with or sales to other companies, selection of officers and directors and other business decisions. This level of control may also have an adverse impact on the market value of our shares because our largest shareholders may institute or undertake transactions, policies or programs that may result in losses, may not take any steps to increase our visibility in the financial community and/or may sell sufficient numbers of shares to significantly decrease our price per share.. Restrictions imposed by the 2015 Stockholders' Agreement may inhibit growth.. The 2015 Stockholders' Agreement limits the ability of the Company to incur debt, among other things. Such restrictions could significantly impact the Company's ability to take certain actions that potentially could enhance shareholder value. Refer to Part III, Item 13 for more information about the Stockholder's Agreement.. The terms of the Operating Agreement of Northern Comstock LLC require significant cash payments and may significantly dilute the ownership interests of the common stock.. The Operating Agreement of Northern Comstock LLC requires that the Company make monthly cash capital contributions of $30,000 to Northern Comstock LLC and annual capital contributions in the amount of $482,500 payable in common stock or cash, at the Company's option, unless the Company has cash and cash equivalents in excess of $10,500,000 on the date of such payments, wherein the Company would then be required to pay in cash. The number of shares to be delivered is calculated by dividing the amount of the capital contribution by the volume-weighted average closing price of the Company's common stock on its primary trading market for the previous 20 consecutive trading days prior to such capital contribution. The Operating Agreement also provides for a one-time acceleration of $812,500 of the capital contributions payable when the Company receives net cash proceeds from sources other than operations that exceed $6,250,000. The agreement also includes an ongoing acceleration of the Company's capital contribution obligations equal to 3% of the net smelter returns generated by the properties subject to the Northern Comstock LLC joint venture. The Operating Agreement also provides that if the Company defaults in its obligation to make the scheduled capital contributions, then the remaining capital contribution obligations may be converted into the principal amount of a 6% per annum promissory note payable by the Company on the same schedule as the capital contributions, secured by a mortgage on the properties subject to the Northern. 21. Comstock LLC joint venture. The Operating Agreement requires that the remaining capital contributions, totaling $7.95 million at December 31, 2017 continue until September 2027, unless prepaid by the Company.. The Company may issue additional common stock or other equity securities in the future that could dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders.. The Company is currently authorized to issue 790,000,000 shares of common stock, of which 47,236,103 shares were issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2017, and 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock, of which no Preferred Shares are issued or outstanding as of the December 31, 2017. To maintain its capital at desired levels or to fund future growth, the Board may decide from time to time to issue additional shares of common stock, or securities convertible into, exchangeable for or representing rights to acquire shares of common stock. The sale of these securities may significantly dilute stockholders' ownership interest and the market price of the common stock. New investors in other equity securities issued by the Company in the future may also have rights, preferences and privileges senior to the Company's current stockholders that may adversely impact its current stockholders.. We have made and may in the future pursue investments in other companies, which could harm our operating results.. We have made, and could make in the future, investments in other companies, including privately-held companies in a development stage. Many of these private equity investments are inherently risky because the companies' businesses may never develop, and we may incur losses related to these investments. In addition, we may be required to write down the carrying value of these investments to reflect other-than-temporary declines in their value, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.. We may pursue acquisitions, divestitures, business combinations, joint ventures or other transactions with other companies, involving our properties or new properties, which could harm our operating results, may disrupt our business and could result in unanticipated accounting charges.. Acquisitions of other companies or new properties, divestitures, business combinations, joint ventures or other transactions with other companies may create additional, material risks for our business that could cause our results to differ materially and adversely from our expected or projected results. Such risk factors include the effects of possible disruption to the exploration activities and mine planning, loss of value associated with our properties, mismanagement of project development, additional risk and liability, indemnification obligations, sales of assets at unfavorable prices, poor execution of the strategic plan for the transaction, permit requirements, debt incurred or capital stock issued to enter into such transactions, the impact of any such transactions on our financial results, negative stakeholder reaction to any such transaction and our ability to successfully integrate an acquired company's operations with our operations. If the purchase price of any acquired businesses exceeds the current fair values of the net tangible assets of such acquired businesses, we would be required to record material amounts of goodwill or other intangible assets, which could result in significant impairment and amortization expense in future periods. These charges, in addition to the results of operations of such acquired businesses and potential restructuring costs associated with an acquisition, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot forecast the number, timing or size of future transactions, or the effect that any such transactions might have on our operating or financial results. Furthermore, potential transactions, whether or not consummated, will divert our management's attention and may require considerable cash outlays at the expense of our existing operations. In addition, to complete future transactions, we may issue equity securities, incur debt, assume contingent liabilities or have amortization expenses and write-downs of acquired assets, which could adversely affect our profitability.. Diversity in application of accounting literature in the mining industry may impact our reported financial results.. The mining industry has limited industry-specific accounting literature and, as a result, we understand diversity in practice exists in the interpretation and application of accounting literature to mining-specific issues. As diversity in mining industry accounting is addressed, we may need to restate our reported results if the resulting interpretations differ from our current accounting practices. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a summary of our significant accounting policies.. 22"
