[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. An investment in our securities, including our common stock, involves a high degree of risk.  Investors should carefully consider the specific factors set forth below as well as the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K. See \"Forward Looking Statements\".. Our financial performance is dependent on conditions in the healthcare industry and the broader economy.. The results of our business are directly tied to the economic conditions in the healthcare industry and the broader economy as a whole.  We will continue to monitor and manage the impact of the overall economic environment on the Company.. In addition, approximately 20% of our revenues are derived from the sale of capital products.  The sales of such products are negatively impacted if hospitals and other healthcare providers are unable to secure the financing necessary to purchase these products or otherwise defer purchases.. Our significant international operations subject us to foreign currency fluctuations and other risks associated with operating in countries outside the Untied States.. A significant portion of our revenues are derived from international sales.  Approximately 48% of our total 2017 consolidated net sales were to customers outside the United States.  We have sales subsidiaries in a significant number of countries in Europe as well as Australia, Canada, China and Korea.  In those countries in which we have a direct presence, our sales are denominated in the local currency and those sales denominated in local currency amounted to approximately 33% of our total net sales in 2017.  The remaining 15% of sales to customers outside the United States was on an export basis and transacted in United States dollars.. Because a significant portion of our operations consist of sales activities in jurisdictions outside the United States, our financial results may be affected by factors such as changes in foreign currency exchange rates or weak economic conditions in the markets in which we distribute products.  While we have implemented a hedging strategy involving foreign currency forward contracts for 2017, our revenues and earnings are only partially protected from foreign currency translation if the United States dollar strengthens as compared with currencies such as the Euro.  Further, as of the date of this Form 10-K, we have not entered into any foreign currency forward contracts beyond 2019.  Our international presence exposes us to certain other inherent risks, including:. • imposition of limitations on conversions of foreign currencies into dollars or remittance of dividends and other payments by international subsidiaries;. • imposition or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by international subsidiaries;. • trade barriers;. • political risks, including political instability;. • reliance on third parties to distribute our products;. 7. • hyperinflation in certain countries outside the United States; and. • imposition or increase of investment and other restrictions by foreign governments.. We cannot assure you that such risks will not have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Our financial performance is subject to the risks inherent in our acquisition strategy, including the effects of increased borrowing and integration of newly acquired businesses or product lines.. A key element of our business strategy has been to expand through acquisitions and we may seek to pursue additional acquisitions in the future.  Our success is dependent in part upon our ability to integrate acquired companies or product lines into our existing operations.  We may not have sufficient management and other resources to accomplish the integration of our past and future acquisitions and implementing our acquisition strategy may strain our relationship with customers, suppliers, distributors, personnel or others.  There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify and make acquisitions on acceptable terms or that we will be able to obtain financing for such acquisitions on acceptable terms.  In addition, while we are generally entitled to customary indemnification from sellers of businesses for any difficulties that may have arisen prior to our acquisition of each business, acquisitions may involve exposure to unknown liabilities and the amount and time for claiming under these indemnification provisions is often limited.  As a result, our financial performance is now, and will continue to be, subject to various risks associated with the acquisition of businesses, including the financial effects associated with any increased borrowing required to fund such acquisitions or with the integration of such businesses.. Our financial performance may be adversely impacted by healthcare reform legislation.. Provisions of healthcare legislation, including provisions of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (\"ACA\"), could meaningfully change the way health care is developed and delivered and may adversely affect our business and results of operations.  For example, the ACA includes provisions aimed at improving quality and decreasing costs of Medicare, governing comparative effectiveness research, and implementing an independent payment advisory board and pilot programs to evaluate alternative payment methodologies.  That legislation also included a 2.3% excise tax imposed upon sales within the U.S. of certain medical device products, which has been delayed until 2020.  We also face uncertainties that might result in the modification or repeal of any provisions of the ACA, including as a result of current and future executive orders and legislative actions.  The uncertainty associated with modifications or a repeal could generally cause healthcare markets to be unstable and we could be subject to some interruptions, the magnitude of which are impossible to determine, as healthcare providers, both facilities and medical professionals, who have benefited from the ACA determine the paths forward.. As a manufacturer of medical devices that interacts with physicians and health care providers domestically and internationally, we face risks under domestic and foreign regulations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.. Manufacturers of medical devices have been the subject of various investigations or enforcement actions relating to interactions with health care providers domestically or internationally.  The interactions with domestic health care providers are subject to regulations, known as the Anti-Kickback Statute, the Stark Act and the False Claims Act, that generally govern incentives for health care providers, or methods of reimbursement funded in whole or in part by the government.  Similarly, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\") prohibits certain conduct by manufacturers, generally described as bribery, with respect to interactions, either directly through foreign subsidiaries or indirectly through distributors, with health care providers who may be considered government officials because they are affiliated with public hospitals.  The FCPA also imposes obligations on manufacturers listed on U.S. stock exchanges to maintain accurate books and records, and maintain internal accounting controls sufficient to provide assurance that transactions are accurately recorded, lawful and in accordance with management's authorization.  The FCPA can pose unique challenges for manufacturers who operate in foreign cultures where conduct prohibited by the FCPA may not be viewed as illegal in local jurisdictions, and because, in some cases, a United States manufacturer may face risks under the FCPA based on the conduct of third parties over whom the manufacturer may not have complete control.. In this regard, from time to time, the Company may receive an information request or subpoena from a government agency, such as the Securities and Exchange Commission, Department of Justice, Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the Department of Labor, the Treasury Department or other federal and state agencies or foreign governments or government agencies.  Alternatively, employees or private parties may provide us with reports of alleged misconduct.  These information requests or subpoenas may or may not be routine inquiries, or may begin as informal or routine inquiries and over time develop into investigations or enforcement actions of various types under the FCPA or otherwise.  Similarly, the employee and third party reports may prompt us to conduct internal investigations into the alleged misconduct.  As a medical device company, CONMED's operations and interactions with government hospitals, healthcare professionals and purchasers may be subject to various federal and state regulations, including the federal False Claims Act, which provides, in part, that the federal government may bring a lawsuit against any person or entity that it believes has knowingly presented, or caused. 8. to be presented, a false or fraudulent request for payment to the government, or has made or used, or caused to be made or used, a false statement or false record material to a false claim. In addition, in certain circumstances, private parties may bring so-called Qui Tam claims as plaintiffs purportedly on behalf of the government asserting claims arising under the False Claims Act.   A violation of the False Claims Act may result in fines up to $11,000 for each false claim, plus up to three times the amount of damages sustained by the government, and may also provide the basis for the imposition of administrative penalties and exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs.  Many states have enacted false claims acts that are similar to the federal False Claims Act.  No inquiry or claim that the Company currently faces or has faced to date, and no report of misconduct that the Company has received to date, has had a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.  There can be no assurance, however, that any pending inquiries will become investigations or enforcement actions, or the costs associated with responding to such inquiries, investigations, enforcement actions or investigations relating to reports of misconduct will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Failure to comply with regulatory requirements may result in recalls, fines or materially adverse implications.. Substantially all of our products are classified as class II medical devices subject to regulation by numerous agencies and legislative bodies, including the FDA and comparable international counterparts.  As a manufacturer of medical devices, our manufacturing processes and facilities are subject to on-site inspection and continuing review by the FDA for compliance with the Quality System Regulations.  We may have future inspections at our sites and there can be no assurance that the costs of responding to such inspections will not be material.. Manufacturing and sales of our products outside the United States are also subject to international regulatory requirements which vary from country to country.  Moreover, we are generally required to obtain regulatory clearance or approval prior to marketing a new product.  The time required to obtain approvals from foreign countries may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA clearance, and requirements for such approvals may differ from FDA requirements.  Failure to comply with applicable domestic and/or foreign regulatory requirements may result in:. • fines or other enforcement actions;. • recall or seizure of products;. • total or partial suspension of production;. • loss of certification;. • withdrawal of existing product approvals or clearances;. • refusal to approve or clear new applications or notices;. • increased quality control costs; or. • criminal prosecution.. Failure to comply with Quality System Regulations and applicable international regulations could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. If we are not able to manufacture products in compliance with regulatory standards, we may decide to cease manufacturing of those products and may be subject to product recall.. In addition to the Quality System Regulations, many of our products are also subject to industry-defined standards.  We may not be able to comply with these regulations and standards due to deficiencies in component parts or our manufacturing processes.  If we are not able to comply with the Quality System Regulations or industry-defined standards, we may not be able to fill customer orders and we may decide to cease production of non-compliant products.  Failure to produce products could affect our profit margins and could lead to loss of customers.. Our products are subject to product recall and we have conducted product recalls in the past.  Although no recall has had a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition, we cannot assure you that regulatory issues will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations in the future or that product recalls will not harm our reputation and our customer relationships.. The highly competitive market for our products may create adverse pricing pressures.. The market for our products is highly competitive and our customers have numerous alternatives of supply.  Many of our competitors offer a range of products in areas other than those in which we compete, which may make such competitors more attractive to surgeons, hospitals, group purchasing organizations and others.  In addition, many of our competitors are large, technically competent firms with substantial assets.  Competitive pricing pressures or the introduction of new products by our competitors. 9. could have an adverse effect on our revenues.  See \"Products\" in Item 1 - Business for a further discussion of these competitive forces.. Factors which may influence our customers' choice of competitor products include:. •changes in surgeon preferences;. •increases or decreases in healthcare spending related to medical devices;. •our inability to supply products to them as a result of product recall, market withdrawal or back-order;. •the introduction by competitors of new products or new features to existing products;. •the introduction by competitors of alternative surgical technology; and. •advances in surgical procedures, discoveries or developments in the healthcare industry.. We use a variety of raw materials in our businesses, and significant shortages or price increases could increase our operating costs and adversely impact the competitive positions of our products.. Our reliance on certain suppliers and commodity markets to secure raw materials used in our products exposes us to volatility in the prices and availability of raw materials. In some instances, we participate in commodity markets that may be subject to allocations by suppliers.  A disruption in deliveries from our suppliers, price increases or decreased availability of raw materials or commodities could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers or increase our operating costs.  We believe that our supply management practices are based on an appropriate balancing of the foreseeable risks and the costs of alternative practices.  Nonetheless, price increases or the unavailability of some raw materials may have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.. Cost reduction efforts in the healthcare industry could put pressures on our prices and margins.. In recent years, the healthcare industry has undergone significant change driven by various efforts to reduce costs.  Such efforts include national healthcare reform, trends towards managed care, cuts in Medicare, consolidation of healthcare distribution companies and collective purchasing arrangements by GPOs and IDNs.  Demand and prices for our products may be adversely affected by such trends.. We may not be able to keep pace with technological change or to successfully develop new products with wide market acceptance, which could cause us to lose business to competitors.. The market for our products is characterized by rapidly changing technology.  Our future financial performance will depend in part on our ability to develop and manufacture new products on a cost-effective basis, to introduce them to the market on a timely basis and to have them accepted by surgeons.. We may not be able to keep pace with technology or to develop viable new products.  In addition, many of our competitors are substantially larger with greater financial resources which may allow them to more rapidly develop new products.  Factors which may result in delays of new product introductions or cancellation of our plans to manufacture and market new products include:. • capital constraints;. • research and development delays;. • delays in securing regulatory approvals; and. • changes in the competitive landscape, including the emergence of alternative products or solutions which reduce or eliminate the markets for pending products.. Our new products may fail to achieve expected levels of market acceptance.. New product introductions may fail to achieve market acceptance.  The degree of market acceptance for any of our products will depend upon a number of factors, including:. • our ability to develop and introduce new products and product enhancements in the time frames we currently estimate;. • our ability to successfully implement new technologies;. • the market's readiness to accept new products;. • having adequate financial and technological resources for future product development and promotion;. • the efficacy of our products; and. • the prices of our products compared to the prices of our competitors' products.. 10. If our new products do not achieve market acceptance, we may be unable to recover our investments and may lose business to competitors.. In addition, some of the companies with which we now compete, or may compete in the future, have or may have more extensive research, marketing and manufacturing capabilities and significantly greater technical and personnel resources than we do, and may be better positioned to continue to improve their technology in order to compete in an evolving industry.  See \"Products\" in Item 1 - Business for a further discussion of these competitive forces.. Our senior credit agreement contains covenants which may limit our flexibility or prevent us from taking actions.. Our senior credit agreement contains, and future credit facilities are expected to contain, certain restrictive covenants which will affect, and in many respects significantly limit or prohibit, among other things, our ability to:. •incur indebtedness;. •make investments;. •engage in transactions with affiliates;. •pay dividends or make other distributions on, or redeem or repurchase, capital stock;. •sell assets; and. •pursue acquisitions.. These covenants, unless waived, may prevent us from pursuing acquisitions, significantly limit our operating and financial flexibility and limit our ability to respond to changes in our business or competitive activities.  Our ability to comply with such provisions may be affected by events beyond our control.  In the event of any default under our credit agreement, the credit agreement lenders may elect to declare all amounts borrowed under our credit agreement, together with accrued interest, to be due and payable.  If we were unable to repay such borrowings, the credit agreement lenders could proceed against collateral securing the credit agreement which consists of substantially all of our property and assets.  Our credit agreement also contains a material adverse effect clause which may limit our ability to access additional funding under our credit agreement should a material adverse change in our business occur.. Our leverage and debt service requirements may require us to adopt alternative business strategies.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $486.9 million of debt outstanding, representing 42% of total capitalization.  See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources\" and Note 6 to our consolidated financial statements.. The degree to which we are leveraged could have important consequences to investors, including but not limited to the following:. • a portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to debt service and will not be available for operations, capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividends and other purposes;. • our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes may be limited or impaired or may be at higher interest rates;. • we may be at a competitive disadvantage when compared to competitors that are less leveraged;. • we may be hindered in our ability to adjust rapidly to market conditions;. • our degree of leverage could make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in general economic conditions or other adverse circumstances applicable to us; and. • our interest expense could increase if interest rates in general increase because a portion of our borrowings, including our borrowings under our credit agreement, are and will continue to be at variable rates of interest.. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service our indebtedness, which could require us to reduce our expenditures, sell assets, restructure our indebtedness or seek additional equity capital.. Our ability to satisfy our obligations will depend upon our future operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control.  We may not have sufficient cash flow available to enable us to meet our obligations.  If we are unable to service our indebtedness, we will be forced to adopt an alternative strategy that may include actions such as foregoing acquisitions, reducing or delaying capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness or seeking additional equity capital.  We cannot assure you that any of these strategies could be implemented on terms acceptable to us, if at all.  See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Liquidity and Capital Resources\" for a discussion of our indebtedness and its implications.. 11. We rely on a third party to obtain, process and distribute sports medicine allograft tissue.  If such tissue cannot be obtained, is not accepted by the market or is not accepted under numerous government regulations, our results of operations could be negatively impacted.. A portion of our orthopedic revenues relate to our share of the service fees from the MTF allograft tissues for which we have exclusive promotion rights, as further described in our revenue recognition policy in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements.  Our primary costs related to these revenues come from our commission expense and certain marketing costs.  Our ability to increase the service fees may be constrained by certain factors which are outside of our control, such as the limited supply of donors and donated tissue that meets the quality standards of MTF.  Similarly, under the terms of the Joint Development and Distribution Agreement (\"JDDA\"), MTF remains responsible for tissue procurement and processing, shipment of tissues and invoicing of service fees to customers.  To the extent MTF's performance does not meet customer expectations or otherwise fails, CONMED may be unable to increase the allograft service fees or to find a suitable replacement for MTF on terms that are acceptable.. The FDA and several states have statutory authority to regulate allograft processing and allograft-based materials.  The FDA could identify deficiencies in future inspections of MTF or MTF's suppliers or promulgate future regulatory rulings that could disrupt our business, reducing profitability.. We could experience a failure of a key information technology system, process or site or a breach of information security, including a cybersecurity breach or failure of one or more key information technology systems, networks, processes, associated sites or service providers.. We rely extensively on information technology (\"IT\") systems for the storage, processing, and transmission of our electronic, business-related, information assets used in or necessary to conduct business.  We leverage our internal information technology infrastructures, and those of our business partners, to enable, sustain, and support our global business activities.  In addition, we rely on networks and services, including internet sites, data hosting and processing facilities and tools and other hardware, software and technical applications and platforms, some of which are managed, hosted, provided and/or used by third-parties or their vendors, to assist in conducting our business.  The data we store and process may include customer payment information, personal information concerning our employees, confidential financial information, and other types of sensitive business-related information.  In limited instances, we may also come into possession of information related to patients of our physician customers.  Numerous and evolving cybersecurity threats pose potential risks to the security of our IT systems, networks and services, as well as the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data.  In addition, the laws and regulations governing security of data on IT systems and otherwise held by companies is evolving, and adding another layer of complexity in the form of new requirements.  We have made, and continue to make investments, seeking to address these threats, including monitoring of networks and systems, hiring of experts, employee training and security policies for employees and third-party providers.  The techniques used in these attacks change frequently and may be difficult to detect for periods of time and we may face difficulties in anticipating and implementing adequate preventative measures.  While the breaches of our IT systems to date have not been material to our business or results of operations, the costs of attempting to protect IT systems and data may increase, and there can be no assurance that these added security efforts will prevent all breaches of our IT systems or thefts of our data.  If our IT systems are damaged or cease to function properly, the networks or service providers we rely upon fail to function properly, or we or one of our third-party providers suffer a loss or disclosure of our business or stakeholder information due to any number of causes ranging from catastrophic events or power outages to improper data handling or security breaches and our business continuity plans do not effectively address these failures on a timely basis, we may be exposed to potential disruption in operations, loss of customers, reputational, competitive and business harm as well as significant costs from remediation, litigation and regulatory actions.. If we infringe third parties' patents, or if we lose our patents or they are held to be invalid, we could become subject to liability and our competitive position could be harmed.. Much of the technology used in the markets in which we compete is covered by patents.  We have numerous U.S. patents and corresponding international patents on products expiring at various dates from 2018 through 2038 and have additional patent applications pending.  See Item 1 Business \"Research and Development\" and \"Intellectual Property\" for a further description of our patents.  The loss of our patents could reduce the value of the related products and any related competitive advantage.  Competitors may also be able to design around our patents and to compete effectively with our products.  In addition, the cost of enforcing our patents against third parties and defending our products against patent infringement actions by others could be substantial.  We cannot assure you that:. • pending patent applications will result in issued patents;. • patents issued to or licensed by us will not be challenged by competitors;. • our patents will be found to be valid or sufficiently broad to protect our technology or provide us with a competitive advantage; or. 12. • we will be successful in defending against pending or future patent infringement claims asserted against our products.. Ordering patterns of our customers may change resulting in reductions in sales.. Our hospital and surgery center customers purchase our products in quantities sufficient to meet their anticipated demand.  Likewise, our healthcare distributor customers purchase our products for ultimate resale to healthcare providers in quantities sufficient to meet the anticipated requirements of the distributors' customers.  Should inventories of our products owned by our hospital, surgery center and distributor customers grow to levels higher than their requirements, our customers may reduce the ordering of products from us.  This could result in reduced sales during a financial accounting period.. We can be sued for producing defective products and our insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover the nature and amount of any product liability claims.. The nature of our products as medical devices and today's litigious environment should be regarded as potential risks which could significantly and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.  The insurance we maintain to protect against claims associated with the use of our products has deductibles and may not adequately cover the amount or nature of any claim asserted against us.  We are also exposed to the risk that our insurers may become insolvent or that premiums may increase substantially.  See \"Item 3 - Legal Proceedings\" for a further discussion of the risk of product liability actions and our insurance coverage.. Damage to our physical properties as a result of windstorm, earthquake, fire or other natural or man-made disaster may cause a financial loss and a loss of customers.. Although we maintain insurance coverage for physical damage to our property and the resultant losses that could occur during a business interruption, we are required to pay deductibles and our insurance coverage is limited to certain caps.  For example, our deductible for windstorm damage to our Florida property amounts to 2% of any loss.. Further, while insurance reimburses us for our lost gross earnings during a business interruption, if we are unable to supply our customers with our products for an extended period of time, there can be no assurance that we will regain the customers' business once the product supply is returned to normal."
