[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider each of the risks described below, together with all other information contained in this report in connection with an investment in our securities. If any of the following risks develop into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected, the trading price of our securities could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment.. Substantial declines in commodity prices or extended periods of low commodity prices adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and our ability to meet our capital expenditure needs and financial commitments.. The prices we receive for sales of our crude oil and natural gas production impact our revenue, profitability, access to capital, capital budget and rate of growth. Crude oil and natural gas are commodities and prices are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand. Historically, the markets for crude oil and natural gas have been volatile and unpredictable. For example, during 2017 the NYMEX West Texas Intermediate (\"WTI\") crude oil and Henry Hub natural gas spot prices ranged from approximately $42 to $60 per barrel and $2.45 to $3.70 per MMBtu, respectively. Commodity prices may remain volatile and unpredictable in 2018 and beyond.. We have hedged the majority of our forecasted 2018 natural gas production. Our future crude oil production is currently unhedged and directly exposed to continued volatility in market prices, whether favorable or unfavorable.. The prices we receive for sales of our production depend on numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following:. • worldwide, domestic and regional economic conditions impacting the supply of, and demand for, crude oil and natural gas;. • the actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and other producing nations;. • the level of national and global crude oil and natural gas exploration and production activities;. • the level of national and global crude oil and natural gas inventories, which may be impacted by economic sanctions applied to certain producing nations;. • the level and effect of trading in commodity futures markets;. • the relative strength of the United States dollar compared to foreign currencies;. • the price and quantity of imports of foreign crude oil;. • the price and quantity of exports of crude oil or liquefied natural gas from the United States;. • military and political conditions in, or affecting other, crude oil-producing and natural gas-producing countries;. • the nature and extent of domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxation, including environmental regulations;. • localized supply and demand fundamentals;. • the cost and availability, proximity and capacity of transportation, processing, storage and refining facilities for various quantities and grades of crude oil and natural gas;. • adverse weather conditions and natural disasters;. • technological advances affecting energy consumption;. • the effect of worldwide energy conservation and environmental protection efforts; and. • the price and availability of alternative fuels or other energy sources.. Sustained material declines in commodity prices reduce our cash flows available for capital expenditures, repayment of indebtedness and other corporate purposes; may limit our ability to borrow money or raise additional capital; and may reduce our proved reserves and the amount of crude oil and natural gas we can economically produce.. In addition to reducing our revenue, cash flows and earnings, depressed prices for crude oil and/or natural gas may adversely affect us in a variety of other ways. If commodity prices decrease substantially, some of our exploration and development projects could become uneconomic, and we may also have to make significant downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves and our estimates of the present value of those reserves. If these price effects occur, or if our estimates of production or economic factors change, accounting rules may require us to write down the carrying value of our crude oil and/or natural gas properties. Lower commodity prices may also reduce our access to capital and lead to a downgrade or other negative rating. 30. action with respect to our credit rating. A downgrade of our credit rating could negatively impact our cost of capital, increase the borrowing costs under our revolving credit facility, and limit our ability to access capital markets and execute aspects of our business plans. As a result, substantial declines in commodity prices or extended periods of low commodity prices may materially and adversely affect our future business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, liquidity and ability to finance planned capital expenditures and commitments.. A substantial portion of our producing properties is located in limited geographic areas, making us vulnerable to risks associated with having geographically concentrated operations.. A substantial portion of our producing properties is located in the Bakken field of North Dakota and Montana, with that area comprising approximately 55% of our crude oil and natural gas production and approximately 64% of our crude oil and natural gas revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017. Approximately 48% of our estimated proved reserves were located in the Bakken as of December 31, 2017. Additionally, in recent years we have significantly expanded our operations in Oklahoma with our increased activity in the SCOOP and STACK plays. Our properties in Oklahoma comprised approximately 41% of our crude oil and natural gas production and approximately 31% of our crude oil and natural gas revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017. Approximately 50% of our estimated proved reserves were located in Oklahoma as of December 31, 2017.. Because of this concentration in limited geographic areas, the success and profitability of our operations may be disproportionately exposed to regional factors compared to competitors having more geographically dispersed operations. These factors include, among others: (i) the prices of crude oil and natural gas produced from wells in the regions and other regional supply and demand factors, including gathering, pipeline and rail transportation capacity constraints; (ii) the availability of rigs, equipment, oilfield services, supplies, and labor; (iii) the availability of processing and refining facilities; and (iv) infrastructure capacity. In addition, our operations in the Bakken field and Oklahoma may be adversely affected by severe weather events such as floods, blizzards, ice storms and tornadoes, which can intensify competition for the items and services described above and may result in periodic shortages. The concentration of our operations in limited geographic areas also increases our exposure to changes in local laws and regulations, certain lease stipulations designed to protect wildlife, and unexpected events that may occur in the regions such as natural disasters, seismic events (which may result in third-party lawsuits), industrial accidents, labor difficulties, civil disturbances, public protests, or terrorist attacks. Any one of these events has the potential to cause producing wells to be shut-in, delay operations, decrease cash flows, increase operating and capital costs and prevent development of lease inventory before expiration. Any of the risks described above could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Volatility in the financial markets or in global economic factors could adversely impact our access to capital and business and financial condition.. United States and global economies may experience periods of turmoil and volatility from time to time, resulting in diminished liquidity and credit availability, inability to access capital markets, high unemployment, unstable consumer confidence, and diminished consumer demand and spending. In recent years, certain global economies have experienced periods of political uncertainty, slowing economic growth, rising interest rates, changing economic sanctions, and currency volatility. These global macroeconomic conditions may put downward pressure on commodity prices and have a negative impact on our revenues, profitability, operating cash flows, liquidity and financial condition.. Historically, we have used cash flows from operations, borrowings under our revolving credit facility and proceeds from capital market transactions and asset dispositions to fund capital expenditures. Volatility in U.S. and global financial and equity markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity, and interest rate volatility, may negatively impact our ability to obtain needed capital on acceptable terms or at all and may increase our cost of financing.. Our exploration, development and exploitation projects require substantial capital expenditures. We may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on acceptable terms, which could lead to a decline in our crude oil and natural gas reserves, production and revenues. In addition, funding our capital expenditures with additional debt will increase our leverage and doing so with equity securities may result in dilution that reduces the value of your stock.. The crude oil and natural gas industry is capital intensive. We make and expect to continue to make substantial capital expenditures in our business for the exploration, development, exploitation, production and acquisition of crude oil and natural gas reserves. We have budgeted $2.30 billion for capital expenditures in 2018 (excluding acquisitions which are not budgeted) of which $1.99 billion is allocated for exploration and development drilling. We may adjust our 2018 capital spending plans upward or downward depending on market conditions.. Historically, our capital expenditures have been financed with cash generated by operations, borrowings under our revolving credit facility and proceeds from the issuance of debt and equity securities. Additionally, in recent years non-strategic asset. 31. dispositions have provided a source of cash flow for use in reducing outstanding debt arising from our capital program. The actual amount and timing of future capital expenditures may differ materially from our estimates as a result of, among others, changes in commodity prices, available cash flows, lack of access to capital, unbudgeted acquisitions, actual drilling and completion results, the availability of drilling and completion rigs and other services and equipment, the availability of transportation and processing capacity, and regulatory, technological and competitive developments.. Our cash flows from operations and access to capital are subject to a number of variables, including but not limited to:. • the volume and value of our proved reserves;. • the volume of crude oil and natural gas we are able to produce and sell from existing wells;. • the prices at which crude oil and natural gas are sold;. • our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves;. • our ability to dispose of assets or enter into joint development arrangements on satisfactory terms; and. • the ability and willingness of our lenders to extend credit or of participants in the capital markets to invest in our senior notes or equity securities.. If oil and gas industry conditions weaken as a result of low commodity prices or other factors, our ability to borrow may decrease and we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations at planned levels. Currently, we have a revolving credit facility with lender commitments totaling $2.75 billion that matures in May 2019. In the future, we may not be able to access adequate funding under our revolving credit facility if our lenders are unwilling or unable to meet their funding obligations or increase their commitments under the credit facility. Our lenders could decline to increase their commitments based on our financial condition, the financial condition of our industry or the economy as a whole or for other reasons beyond our control. Due to these and other factors, we cannot be certain that funding, if needed, will be available to the extent required or on terms we find acceptable. If operating cash flows are insufficient and we are unable to access funding or execute capital transactions when needed on acceptable terms, we may not be able to fully implement our business plans, fund our capital program and commitments, complete new property acquisitions to replace reserves, take advantage of business opportunities, respond to competitive pressures, or refinance debt obligations as they come due. Should any of the above risks occur, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We intend to finance future capital expenditures primarily through cash flows from operations, with any cash flow deficiencies expected to be funded by borrowings under our revolving credit facility or proceeds from asset sales or joint development arrangements. However, our financing needs may require us to alter or increase our capitalization substantially through the issuance of debt or equity securities. If we issue additional debt a portion of our cash flows from operations will need to be used for the payment of interest and principal on our debt, thereby reducing our ability to use cash flows to fund working capital needs, capital expenditures and acquisitions. The issuance of additional equity securities could have a dilutive effect on the value of our common stock.. Drilling for and producing crude oil and natural gas are high risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our future financial condition and results of operations will depend on the success of our exploration, development and production activities. Our crude oil and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to numerous risks, including the risk that drilling will not result in commercially viable crude oil or natural gas production. Our decisions to purchase, explore, develop or otherwise exploit prospects or properties will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data, and engineering studies, the results of which are often inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. Our cost of drilling, completing and operating wells may be uncertain before drilling commences.. Risks we face while drilling include, but are not limited to, failing to place our well bore in the desired target producing zone; not staying in the desired drilling zone while drilling horizontally through the formation; failing to run our casing the entire length of the well bore; and not being able to run tools and other equipment consistently through the horizontal well bore. Risks we face while completing our wells include, but are not limited to, not being able to fracture stimulate the planned number of stages; failing to run tools the entire length of the well bore during completion operations; not successfully cleaning out the well bore after completion of the final fracture stimulation stage; increased seismicity in areas near our completion activities; unintended interference of completion activities performed by us or by third parties with nearby operated or non-operated wells being drilled, completed, or producing; and failure of our optimized completion techniques to yield expected levels of production.. Further, many factors may curtail, delay or cancel scheduled drilling projects, including but not limited to:. 32. • abnormal pressure or irregularities in geological formations;. • shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment or qualified personnel;. • shortages of or delays in obtaining components used in fracture stimulation processes such as water and proppants;. • delays associated with suspending our operations to accommodate nearby drilling or completion operations being conducted by other operators;. • mechanical difficulties, fires, explosions, equipment failures or accidents, including ruptures of pipelines or train derailments;. • restrictions on the use of underground injection wells for disposing of waste water from oil and gas activities;. • political events, public protests, civil disturbances, terrorist acts or cyber attacks;. • decreases in, or extended periods of low, crude oil and natural gas prices;. • limited availability of financing with acceptable terms;. • title problems;. • environmental hazards, such as uncontrollable flows of crude oil, natural gas, brine, well fluids, hydraulic fracturing fluids, toxic gas or other pollutants into the environment, including groundwater and shoreline contamination;. • spillage or mishandling of crude oil, natural gas, brine, well fluids, hydraulic fracturing fluids, toxic gas or other pollutants by us or by third party service providers;. • limitations in infrastructure, including transportation, processing and refining capacity, or markets for crude oil and natural gas; and. • delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with regulatory requirements including permitting.. Any of the above events could hinder our ability to conduct normal operations and could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that will likely turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. The Company's current estimates of reserves could change, potentially in material amounts, in the future, in particular due to changes in commodity prices.. The process of estimating crude oil and natural gas reserves is complex and inherently imprecise. It requires interpretation of available technical data and many assumptions, including assumptions relating to current and future economic conditions, production rates, drilling and operating expenses, and commodity prices. Any significant inaccuracy in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect our estimated quantities and present value of our reserves. See Part I, Item 1. Business - Crude Oil and Natural Gas Operations - Proved Reserves for information about our estimated crude oil and natural gas reserves, standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows, and PV-10 as of December 31, 2017.. In order to prepare reserve estimates, we must project production rates and the amount and timing of development expenditures. Our booked proved undeveloped reserves must be developed within five years from the date of initial booking under SEC reserve rules. Changes in the timing of development plans that impact our ability to develop such reserves in the required time frame have resulted, and will likely in the future result, in fluctuations in reserves between periods as reserves booked in one period may need to be removed in a subsequent period. In 2017, 89 MMBoe of proved undeveloped reserves were removed from our year-end reserve estimates associated with drilling locations no longer scheduled to be developed within five years from the date of initial booking.. We must also analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data in preparing reserve estimates. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary which in turn can affect our ability to model the porosity, permeability and pressure relationships in unconventional resources. The process also requires economic assumptions, based on historical data but projected into the future, about matters such as crude oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds.. The prices used in calculating our estimated proved reserves are calculated by determining the unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month commodity prices for the preceding 12 months. For the year ended December 31, 2017, average prices used to calculate our estimated proved reserves were $51.34 per Bbl for crude oil and $2.98 per MMBtu for natural gas ($47.03 per Bbl for crude oil and $3.00 per Mcf for natural gas adjusted for location and quality differentials). Actual future prices may be materially higher or lower than those used in our year-end estimates. NYMEX WTI crude oil and Henry Hub. 33. natural gas first-day-of-the-month commodity prices for January 1, 2018 and February 1, 2018 averaged $63.11 per barrel and $3.40 per MMBtu, respectively. See Part I, Item 1. Business - Crude Oil and Natural Gas Operations - Proved Reserves - Proved Reserve, Standardized Measure, and PV-10 Sensitivities for proved reserve sensitivities under certain increasing and decreasing commodity price scenarios.. Actual future production, crude oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable crude oil and natural gas reserves will vary and could vary significantly from our estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of our reserves, which in turn could have an adverse effect on the value of our assets. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves, potentially in material amounts, to reflect production history, results of exploration and development activities, prevailing crude oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control.. The present value of future net revenues from our proved reserves will not necessarily be the same as the current market value of our estimated crude oil and natural gas reserves.. You should not assume the present value of future net revenues from our proved reserves is the current market value of our estimated crude oil and natural gas reserves. We base the estimated discounted future net revenues from proved reserves on the 12-month unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month commodity prices for the preceding twelve months. Actual future prices may be materially higher or lower than the average prices used in the calculations. See Part I, Item 1. Business - Crude Oil and Natural Gas Operations - Proved Reserves - Proved Reserve, Standardized Measure, and PV-10 Sensitivities for Standardized Measure and PV-10 sensitivities under certain increasing and decreasing commodity price scenarios.. Actual future net revenues from crude oil and natural gas properties will be affected by factors such as:. • the actual prices we receive for sales of crude oil and natural gas;. • the actual cost and timing of development and production expenditures;. • the timing and amount of actual production; and. • changes in governmental regulations or taxation.. The timing of both our production and our incurrence of costs in connection with the development and production of crude oil and natural gas properties will affect the timing and amount of actual future net revenues from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the use of a 10% discount factor, which is required by the SEC to be used to calculate discounted future net revenues for reporting purposes, may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with our reserves or the crude oil and natural gas industry in general. Any significant variances in timing or assumptions could materially affect the estimated present value of our reserves, which in turn could have an adverse effect on the value of our assets.. We may be required to further write down the carrying values of our crude oil and natural gas properties if commodity prices decline or our development plans change.. Accounting rules require we periodically review the carrying values of our crude oil and natural gas properties for possible impairment. Proved properties are reviewed for impairment on a field-by-field basis each quarter. We use the successful efforts method of accounting whereby the estimated future cash flows expected in connection with a field are compared to the carrying amount of the field to determine if the carrying amount is recoverable. If the carrying amount of the field exceeds its estimated undiscounted future cash flows, the carrying amount of the field is reduced to its estimated fair value using a discounted cash flow model.. Based on specific market factors, prices, and circumstances at the time of prospective impairment reviews, and the continuing evaluation of development plans, production data, economics and other factors, we may be required to write down the carrying values of our crude oil and natural gas properties. A write-down results in a non-cash charge to earnings. We have incurred impairment charges in the past and may incur additional impairment charges in the future, particularly if commodity prices decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the periods in which such charges are taken.. 34. Unless we replace our crude oil and natural gas reserves, our reserves and production will decline, which could adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations.. Unless we conduct successful exploration, development and exploitation activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves, our proved reserves will decline as those reserves are produced. Producing crude oil and natural gas reservoirs are generally characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Our future crude oil and natural gas reserves and production, and therefore our cash flows and results of operations, are highly dependent on our success in efficiently developing our current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. We may not be able to develop, find or acquire sufficient additional reserves to replace our current and future production. If we are unable to replace our current and future production, the value of our reserves will decrease, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. The unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, well completion crews, equipment, supplies, personnel and oilfield services could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans within budget and on a timely basis.. In the regions in which we operate, there have historically been shortages of drilling rigs, well completion crews, equipment, supplies, personnel or oilfield services, including key components used in fracture stimulation processes such as water and proppants, as well as high costs associated with these critical components of our operations. The demand for qualified and experienced oilfield service providers and associated equipment, supplies, and materials can fluctuate significantly, often in correlation with commodity prices, causing periodic shortages.. Certain drilling and completion costs and costs of oilfield services, equipment, and materials decreased in recent years as service providers reduced their costs in response to reduced demand arising from low crude oil prices. However, inflationary pressures returned in 2017 and are expected to continue in 2018 in conjunction with the stabilization and improvement in crude oil prices in recent months.. As a result of the low commodity price environment in recent years, the number of providers of services, equipment, and materials decreased in the regions where we operate. Further, increased industry drilling and completion activities in recent months prompted by improvement in crude oil prices may cause shortages or higher costs of services, equipment, and materials. Such shortages or higher costs could delay the execution of our drilling and development plans, including our plans to work down our large inventory of uncompleted wells, or cause us to incur expenditures not provided for in our capital budget or to not achieve the rates of return we are targeting for our development program, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We may incur substantial losses and be subject to substantial liability claims as a result of our crude oil and natural gas operations. Additionally, we may not be insured for, or our insurance may be inadequate to protect us against, these risks.. We are not insured against all risks. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured and under-insured events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our crude oil and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to all of the operating risks associated with drilling for and producing crude oil and natural gas, including the possibility of:. • environmental hazards, such as uncontrollable flows of crude oil, natural gas, brine, well fluids, hydraulic fracturing fluids, toxic gas or other pollutants into the environment, including groundwater and shoreline contamination;. • abnormally pressured formations;. • mechanical difficulties, such as stuck oilfield drilling and service tools and casing collapse;. • fires and explosions;. • ruptures of pipelines or storage facilities;. • loss of product or property damage occurring as a result of transfer to a rail car or train derailments;. • personal injuries and death;. • adverse weather conditions and natural disasters; and. • spillage or mishandling of crude oil, natural gas, brine, well fluids, hydraulic fracturing fluids, toxic gas or other pollutants by us or by third party service providers.. Any of these risks could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations or result in substantial losses to us as a result of:. • injury or loss of life;. • damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment;. 35. • pollution and other environmental damage;. • regulatory investigations and penalties;. • suspension of our operations;. • repair and remediation costs; and. • litigation.. We may elect to not obtain insurance if we believe the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented or for other reasons. In addition, pollution and environmental risks are generally not fully insurable. The occurrence of an event not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Prospects we decide to drill may not yield crude oil or natural gas in economically producible quantities.. Prospects we decide to drill that do not yield crude oil or natural gas in economically producible quantities may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In this report, we describe some of our current prospects and plans to explore and develop those prospects. Our prospects are in various stages of evaluation, ranging from a prospect which is ready to drill to a prospect requiring substantial additional seismic data processing and interpretation. It is not possible to predict with certainty whether any particular prospect will yield crude oil or natural gas in sufficient quantities to recover drilling or completion costs or be economically producible. The use of seismic data and other technologies and the study of producing fields in the same area will not enable us to know conclusively prior to drilling whether crude oil or natural gas will be present or, if present, whether crude oil or natural gas will be present in economically producible quantities. We cannot assure you the analogies we draw from available data from other wells, more fully explored prospects or producing fields will be applicable to our drilling prospects.. Our identified drilling locations are scheduled out over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their drilling.. Our management has specifically identified and scheduled drilling locations as an estimation of our future multi-year drilling activities on our existing acreage. Our ability to drill and develop these locations is subject to a number of uncertainties, including crude oil and natural gas prices; the availability of capital, drilling rigs, well completion crews, and transportation and processing capacity; costs; drilling results; regulatory approvals; and other factors. If future drilling results do not establish sufficient reserves to achieve an economic return, we may curtail drilling in these projects. Because of these uncertainties, we do not know if the potential drilling locations we have identified will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce crude oil or natural gas from these or any other potential drilling locations in sufficient quantities to achieve an economic return. In addition, unless production is established within the spacing units covering the undeveloped acres on which some of the locations are identified, the leases for such acreage will expire. Low commodity prices, reduced capital spending, lack of available drilling and completion rigs and crews, and numerous other factors, many of which are beyond our control, could result in our failure to establish production on undeveloped acreage, and, if we are not able to renew leases before they expire, any proved undeveloped reserves associated with such leases will be removed from our proved reserves. The combined net acreage expiring in the next three years represents 57% of our total net undeveloped acreage at December 31, 2017. At that date, we had leases representing 102,258 net acres expiring in 2018, 145,997 net acres expiring in 2019, and 93,664 net acres expiring in 2020. Our actual drilling activities may materially differ from those presently identified, which could adversely affect our business.. The development of our proved undeveloped reserves may take longer and may require higher levels of capital expenditures than we currently anticipate. Our proved undeveloped reserves may not be ultimately developed or produced.. At December 31, 2017, approximately 55% of our total estimated proved reserves (by volume) were undeveloped and may not be ultimately developed or produced. Recovery of undeveloped reserves requires significant capital expenditures and successful drilling operations. Our reserve estimates assume we can and will make these expenditures and conduct these operations successfully. These assumptions may not prove to be accurate. Our reserve report at December 31, 2017 includes estimates of total future development costs over the next five years associated with our proved undeveloped reserves of approximately $6.4 billion. We cannot be certain the estimated costs of the development of these reserves are accurate, development will occur as scheduled, or the results of such development will be as estimated. If we choose not to spend the capital to develop these reserves, or if we are not otherwise able to successfully develop these reserves as a result of our inability to fund necessary capital expenditures or otherwise, we will be required to remove the associated volumes from our reported proved reserves. In addition, under the SEC's reserve rules, because proved undeveloped reserves may be booked only if they relate to wells scheduled to be drilled within five years of the date of booking, we may be required to remove any. 36. proved undeveloped reserves not developed within this five-year time frame. Such removals have occurred in the past and will likely occur in the future. A removal of such reserves could adversely affect our operations. In 2017, 89 MMBoe of proved undeveloped reserves were removed from our year-end reserve estimates associated with drilling locations no longer scheduled to be developed within five years from the date of initial booking.. Our business depends on crude oil and natural gas transportation, processing, and refining facilities, most of which are owned by third parties.. The value we receive for our crude oil and natural gas production depends in part on the availability, proximity and capacity of gathering, pipeline and rail systems and processing and refining facilities owned by third parties. The inadequacy or unavailability of capacity on these systems and facilities could result in the shut-in of producing wells, the delay or discontinuance of development plans for properties, or higher operational costs associated with air quality compliance controls. Although we have some contractual control over the transportation of our products, changes in these business relationships or failure to obtain such services on acceptable terms could adversely affect our operations. If our production becomes shut-in for any of these or other reasons, we would be unable to realize revenue from those wells until other arrangements were made for the sale or delivery of our products and acreage lease terminations could result if production is shut-in for a prolonged period.. The disruption of transportation, processing or refining facilities due to labor disputes, maintenance, civil disturbances, public protests, terrorist attacks, cyber attacks, adverse weather, natural disasters, seismic events, changes in tax and energy policies, federal, state and international regulatory developments, changes in supply and demand, equipment failures or accidents, including pipeline and gathering system ruptures or train derailments, and general economic conditions could negatively impact our ability to achieve the most favorable prices for our crude oil and natural gas production. We have no control over when or if access to such facilities would be restored or the impact on prices in the areas we operate. A significant shut-in of production in connection with any of the aforementioned items could materially affect our cash flows, and if a substantial portion of the impacted production fulfills transportation commitments or is hedged at lower than market prices, those commitments or financial hedges would have to be paid from borrowings absent sufficient cash flows.. Our operated crude oil and natural gas production is transported to market centers primarily using pipeline and rail transportation facilities owned and operated by third parties. See Part I, Item 1. Business - Regulation of the Crude Oil and Natural Gas Industry for a discussion of regulations impacting the transportation of crude oil and natural gas. We do not currently own or operate transportation infrastructure; however, compliance with regulations that impact the transportation of crude oil or natural gas could increase our costs of doing business and limit our ability to transport and sell our production at market centers throughout the United States, the consequences of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our business depends on the availability of water and the ability to dispose of waste water from oil and gas activities. Limitations or restrictions on our ability to obtain or dispose of water may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. With current technology, water is an essential component of drilling and hydraulic fracturing processes. Limitations or restrictions on our ability to secure sufficient amounts of water (including limitations resulting from natural causes such as drought), or to dispose of or recycle water after use, could adversely impact our operations. In some cases, water may need to be obtained from new sources and transported to drilling sites, resulting in increased costs. Moreover, the introduction of new environmental initiatives and regulations related to water acquisition or waste water disposal, including produced water, drilling fluids and other wastes associated with the exploration, development or production of hydrocarbons, could limit or prohibit our ability to utilize hydraulic fracturing or waste water injection wells.. In addition, concerns have been raised about the potential for seismic events to occur from the use of underground injection wells, a predominant method for disposing of waste water from oil and gas activities. Rules and regulations have been developed in Oklahoma to address these concerns by limiting or eliminating the ability to use disposal wells in certain locations or increasing the cost of disposal. We operate injection wells and utilize injection wells owned by third parties to dispose of waste water associated with our operations. Some states, including states in which we operate, have delayed permit approvals, mandated a reduction in injection volumes, or have shut down or imposed moratoria on the use of injection wells. Regulators in some states, including states in which we operate, are considering additional requirements related to seismicity. For example, in Oklahoma, the Oklahoma Corporation Commission (\"OCC\") has adopted rules for operators of saltwater disposal wells in certain seismically-active areas in the Arbuckle formation of the state. These rules require disposal well operators, among other things, to conduct mechanical integrity testing or make certain demonstrations of such wells' respective depths that, depending on the depth, could require plugging the well and/or the reduction of volumes disposed in such wells. Oklahoma has adopted a \"traffic light\" system wherein the OCC reviews new or existing disposal wells for proximity to faults, seismicity in the area and other factors in determining whether such wells should be permitted, permitted only with special restrictions, or not permitted.. 37. Compliance with existing or new environmental regulations and permit requirements governing the withdrawal, storage, and use of water necessary for hydraulic fracturing of wells or the disposal of waste water may increase our operating costs or may cause us to delay, curtail or discontinue our exploration and development plans, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We are subject to complex federal, state and local laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting our operations or expose us to significant liabilities.. Our crude oil and natural gas exploration and production operations are subject to complex and stringent federal, state and local laws and regulations, including those governing environmental protection, the occupational health and safety aspects of our operations, the discharge of materials into the environment, and the protection of certain plant and animal species. See Part I, Item 1. Business - Regulation of the Crude Oil and Natural Gas Industry for a description of the laws and regulations that affect us. In order to conduct operations in compliance with these laws and regulations, we must obtain and maintain numerous permits, approvals and certificates from various federal, state and local governmental authorities. Environmental regulations may restrict the types, quantities and concentration of materials released into the environment in connection with drilling and production activities, limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas, and impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations. In addition, we may experience delays in obtaining or be unable to obtain required permits, which may delay or interrupt our operations and limit our growth and revenues.. Failure to comply with laws and regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including investigatory actions, the assessment of monetary penalties, the imposition of remedial requirements, the issuance of orders or judgments limiting or enjoining future operations and litigation. Strict liability or joint and several liability may be imposed under certain laws, which could cause us to become liable for the conduct of others or for consequences of our own actions. For instance, an accidental release from one of our wells could subject us to substantial liabilities arising from environmental cleanup and restoration costs, claims made by neighboring landowners and other third parties for personal injury and property damage and fines or penalties for related violations of environmental laws or regulations.. Moreover, our costs of compliance with existing laws could be substantial and may increase, or unforeseen liabilities could be imposed, if existing laws and regulations are revised or reinterpreted or if new laws and regulations become applicable to our operations. If we are not able to recover the increased costs through insurance or increased revenues, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected.. Climate change legislation or regulations governing the emissions of \"greenhouse gases\" could result in increased operating costs, limitations in our ability to develop and produce reserves, and reduced demand for the crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids we produce.. In response to EPA findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases endanger human health and the environment, the EPA has adopted regulations under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act establishing, among other things, Prevention of Significant Deterioration (\"PSD\") pre-construction and Title V operating permit reviews for certain large stationary sources. Facilities required to obtain PSD permits for greenhouse gas emissions are also required to meet \"best available control technology\" standards established on a case-by-case basis. For further discussion of Title V and PSD concerns, see Part I, Item 1. Business - Regulation of the Crude Oil and Natural Gas Industry - Environmental regulation - Air emissions and climate change. Also see Part I, Item 1. Business - Regulation of the Crude Oil and Natural Gas Industry - Environmental regulation - Environmental protection and natural gas flaring. The EPA has also adopted rules requiring the monitoring and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from specified onshore and offshore oil and gas production sources in the United States on an annual basis, which include certain of our operations. See Part I, Item 1. Business - Regulation of the Crude Oil and Natural Gas Industry - Environmental regulation - Air emissions and climate change for further discussion of the laws and regulations that affect us with respect to climate change initiatives. Regulations related to greenhouse gas emissions could adversely affect our operations and restrict or delay our ability to obtain air permits for new or modified sources.. Certain previously existing climate-related regulations, such as those related to the control of methane emissions, have been, or are in the process of being, reviewed, suspended, revised, or rescinded in response to President Trump's March 2017 Executive Order. Undoing previously existing regulations will likely involve lengthy notice-and-comment rulemaking and the resulting decisions may then be subject to litigation by opposition groups. Thus, it could take several years before existing regulations are revised or rescinded. Although further climate-related regulation of our industry may stall at the federal level under the March 2017 Executive Order, certain states have pursued additional regulation of our operations related to the emission of greenhouse gases and other states may do so as well. For instance, several state and regional greenhouse gas cap and trade. 38. programs have emerged, while other states have imposed limitations on emissions of methane through equipment control and leak detection and repair requirements.. The implementation of, and compliance with, regulations that require reporting of greenhouse gases or otherwise limit emissions of greenhouse gases from our equipment and operations could require us to incur costs to monitor and report on greenhouse gas emissions, install new equipment to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases associated with our operations, or limit our ability to develop and produce our reserves. In addition, substantial limitations on greenhouse gas emissions could adversely affect the demand for the crude oil and natural gas we produce, which could lower the value of our reserves and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Finally, some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases in the Earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, floods or other climatic events. If any such effects were to occur as a result of climate change or otherwise, they could have an adverse effect on our assets and operations.. Federal and state legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs, additional operating restrictions or delays, and an inability to develop existing reserves or to book future reserves.. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and commonly used process in the completion of crude oil and natural gas wells in low-permeability formations. Hydraulic fracturing involves the high-pressure injection of water, sand or other proppant and additives into rock formations to stimulate crude oil and natural gas production. In recent years there has been increased public concern regarding an alleged potential for hydraulic fracturing to adversely affect drinking water supplies and to induce seismic events. As a result, several federal and state regulatory initiatives have emerged that seek to increase the regulatory burden imposed on hydraulic fracturing. See Part I, Item 1. Business - Regulation of the Crude Oil and Natural Gas Industry - Environmental regulation - Hydraulic fracturing for a description of the laws and regulations that affect us with respect to hydraulic fracturing.. States in which we operate have adopted or are considering adopting legal requirements imposing more stringent permitting, disclosure, and well construction and reclamation requirements on hydraulic fracturing activities. Local governments also may seek to adopt ordinances within their jurisdictions regulating or prohibiting the time, place and manner of drilling activities or hydraulic fracturing activities. In certain areas of the United States, new drilling permits for hydraulic fracturing have been put on hold pending development of additional standards.. The adoption of any future federal, state or local law or implementing regulation imposing permitting or reporting obligations on, or otherwise limiting, the hydraulic fracturing process, or the discovery of groundwater contamination or other adverse environmental effects directly connected to hydraulic fracturing, could make it more difficult and more expensive to complete crude oil and natural gas wells in low-permeability formations and increase our costs of compliance and doing business, as well as delay, prevent or prohibit the development of natural resources from unconventional formations. In the event regulations are adopted to prohibit or significantly limit the use of hydraulic fracturing in states in which we operate, it would have a material adverse effect on our ability to economically find and develop crude oil and natural gas reserves in our strategic plays. The inability to achieve a satisfactory economic return could cause us to curtail or discontinue our exploration and development plans, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Proposed changes to existing laws or regulations or changes in interpretations of laws and regulations under consideration could increase our operating costs, reduce our liquidity, delay our operations or otherwise alter the way we conduct our business.. Changes to existing laws or regulations, new laws or regulations, or changes in interpretations of laws and regulations may unfavorably impact us or the infrastructure used for transporting our products. Similarly, changes in regulatory policies and priorities could result in the imposition of new obligations upon us, such as increased reporting or audits. Any of these requirements could result in increased operating costs and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If such legislation, regulations or interpretations are adopted, they could result in, among other items, additional restrictions on hydraulic fracturing of wells, restrictions on the disposal of waste water from oil and gas activities, restrictions on emissions of greenhouse gases, modification of equipment utilized in our operations, changes to the calculation of royalty payments, new safety requirements such as those involving rail transportation, and additional regulation of private energy commodity derivative and hedging activities. These and other potential laws, regulations, interpretations and other requirements could increase our operating costs, reduce our liquidity, delay our operations or otherwise alter the way we conduct our business. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 39. Certain aspects of the newly enacted federal income tax reform legislation in the United States could adversely affect us.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Reform Act\") was signed into law by President Trump.  The Tax Reform Act represents the most significant tax policy change in the United States since 1986 and includes, among others, the following key changes to federal tax law:. • Reduces the corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% and eliminates the corporate alternative minimum tax;. • Limits the tax deduction for certain net operating loss (NOL) carryforwards to 80% of taxable income for a taxable year, allows NOLs generated in years after December 31, 2017 to be carried forward indefinitely, and repeals NOL carrybacks;. • Limits the tax deduction for business interest expense to 30% of adjusted taxable income for a taxable year;. • Allows businesses to immediately expense the cost of new investments in certain qualified depreciable assets;. • Creates a territorial tax system rather than a worldwide system, which generally allows companies to repatriate future foreign source earnings without incurring additional U.S. taxes;. • Subjects foreign earnings on which U.S. income tax is currently deferred to a one-time transition tax; and. • Eliminates or reduces certain deductions, exclusions, and credits and adds other provisions that broaden the tax base.. Changes arising from the Tax Reform Act, which are subject to a number of important qualifications and exceptions, generally become effective for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017. Certain of the changes are permanent, while others expire at specified dates. The Tax Reform Act's provisions could have state and local tax implications. While some states automatically adopt federal tax law changes, others conform their laws with federal law on specific dates. States also may choose to decouple from the new federal tax provisions and continue to apply previous law.. Apart from the future benefits to be realized from the reduction in the corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, the overall long-term impact of other aspects of the Tax Reform Act is uncertain, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected by certain new provisions, particularly the limitations on the tax deductibility of business interest expense and NOLs. See Part II, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Legislative and Regulatory Developments - Tax Reform Legislation for a forward-looking discussion of the potential impact of the Tax Reform Act.. In previous years, legislation has been proposed to eliminate or defer certain key U.S. federal income tax deductions historically available to oil and gas exploration and production companies. Such proposed changes have included: (i) a repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for crude oil and natural gas properties; (ii) the elimination of deductions for intangible drilling and exploration and development costs; (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain production activities; and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. These tax deductions currently utilized within our industry are not impacted by the Tax Reform Act. However, no prediction can be made as to whether any legislative changes will be proposed or enacted in the future that could eliminate or defer these or other tax deductions utilized within our industry.. Competition in the crude oil and natural gas industry is intense, making it more difficult for us to acquire properties, market crude oil and natural gas and secure trained personnel.. Our ability to acquire additional prospects and to find and develop reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment for acquiring properties, securing long-term transportation and processing capacity, marketing crude oil and natural gas, and securing trained personnel. Also, there is substantial competition for capital available for investment in the crude oil and natural gas industry. Certain of our competitors may possess and employ financial, technical and personnel resources greater than ours. Those companies may be able to pay more for productive crude oil and natural gas properties and exploratory prospects and to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or personnel resources permit. In addition, companies may be able to offer better compensation packages to attract and retain qualified personnel than we are able to offer. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future in acquiring prospective reserves, developing reserves, securing long-term transportation and processing capacity, marketing hydrocarbons, attracting and retaining quality personnel, and raising additional capital, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Negative public perception regarding us and/or our industry could have an adverse effect on our operations.. Negative public perception regarding us and/or our industry resulting from, among other things, concerns raised by advocacy groups about hydraulic fracturing, oil spills, induced seismicity, and greenhouse gas emissions may lead to increased regulatory scrutiny, which may, in turn, lead to new state and federal safety and environmental laws, regulations, guidelines and. 40. enforcement interpretations. These actions may cause operational delays or restrictions, increased operating costs, additional regulatory burdens and increased risk of litigation. Moreover, governmental authorities exercise considerable discretion in the timing and scope of permit issuance and the public may engage in the permitting process, including through intervention in the courts. Negative public perception could cause the permits we need to conduct our operations to be withheld, delayed, or burdened by requirements that restrict our ability to conduct our business.. Energy conservation measures or initiatives that stimulate demand for alternative forms of energy could reduce the demand for the crude oil and natural gas we produce.. Fuel conservation measures, climate change initiatives, governmental requirements for renewable energy resources, increasing consumer demand for alternative forms of energy, and technological advances in fuel economy and energy generation devices could reduce demand for the crude oil and natural gas we produce. The potential impact of changing demand for crude oil and natural gas services and products may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Severe weather events and natural disasters could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Severe weather events and natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornadoes, seismic events, blizzards and ice storms affecting the areas in which we operate, including our corporate headquarters, could have a material adverse effect on our operations or the operations of third party service providers. Such events may result in significant destruction of infrastructure, businesses, and homes and could disrupt the distribution and supply of crude oil and natural gas products in the impacted region. The consequences of such events may include the evacuation of personnel; damage to and disruption of drilling rigs or transportation, processing, storage and refining facilities; the shut-in of production resulting from an inability to transport crude oil or natural gas products to market centers and other factors; an inability to access well sites; destruction of information and communication systems; and the disruption of administrative and management processes, any of which could hinder our ability to conduct normal operations and could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Regulations under the Dodd-Frank Act regarding derivatives could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price risk and other risks associated with our business.. From time to time, we may use derivative instruments to manage commodity price risk. In 2010, the U.S. Congress adopted the Dodd-Frank Act, which, among other provisions, establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, such as us, that participate in that market. This financial reform legislation includes provisions that require many derivative transactions previously executed over-the-counter to be executed through an exchange and be centrally cleared. In addition, this legislation calls for the imposition of position limits for swaps, including swaps involving physical commodities such as crude oil and natural gas, which have been proposed but have not been finalized. It also establishes minimum margin requirements for uncleared swaps for swap dealers and major swap participants.. If we do not qualify for an end user exemption from the Dodd-Frank requirements, the new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts, materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure existing derivative contracts, lead to fewer potential counterparties, impose new recordkeeping and documentation requirements, and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. Additionally, the proposed position limits may limit our ability to implement price risk management strategies if we are not able to qualify for any exemption from such limits. Further, if we do not qualify for an end user exemption, the margin requirements for uncleared swaps may require us to post collateral, which could adversely affect our available liquidity. If our use of derivatives becomes limited as a result of the regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable. Finally, the legislation was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of crude oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to crude oil and natural gas. Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the legislation and regulations is to lower crude oil or natural gas prices. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. The loss of senior management or technical personnel could adversely affect our operations.. We depend on the services of our senior management and technical personnel. The loss of the services of our senior management or technical personnel, including Harold G. Hamm, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We do not maintain, nor do we plan to obtain, any insurance against the loss of any of these individuals.. 41. We have limited control over the activities on properties we do not operate.. Some of the properties in which we have an ownership interest are operated by other companies and involve third-party working interest owners. As of December 31, 2017, non-operated properties represented 18% of our estimated proved developed reserves, 6% of our estimated proved undeveloped reserves, and 11% of our estimated total proved reserves. We have limited ability to influence or control the operations or future development of non-operated properties, including compliance with environmental, safety and other regulations, or the amount of expenditures required to fund the development and operation of such properties. Moreover, we are dependent on other working interest owners on these projects to fund their contractual share of capital and operating expenditures. These limitations and our dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these projects could cause us to incur unexpected future costs and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our revolving credit facility and indentures for our senior notes contain certain covenants and restrictions that may inhibit our ability to make certain investments, incur additional indebtedness and engage in certain other transactions, which could adversely affect our ability to meet our goals.. Our revolving credit facility contains restrictive covenants that may limit our ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, incur liens, engage in sale and leaseback transactions, and merge, consolidate or sell all or substantially all of our assets. Our revolving credit facility also contains a requirement that we maintain a consolidated net debt to total capitalization ratio of no greater than 0.65 to 1.00. This ratio represents the ratio of net debt (calculated as total face value of debt plus outstanding letters of credit less cash and cash equivalents) divided by the sum of net debt plus total shareholders' equity plus, to the extent resulting in a reduction of total shareholders' equity, the amount of any non-cash impairment charges incurred, net of any tax effect, after June 30, 2014.. At December 31, 2017, our consolidated net debt to total capitalization ratio, as defined, was 0.51 to 1.00. Our total debt would need to independently increase by approximately $5.2 billion above the existing level at December 31, 2017 (with no corresponding increase in cash or reduction in refinanced debt) to reach the maximum covenant ratio of 0.65 to 1.00. Alternatively, our total shareholders' equity would need to independently decrease by approximately $2.8 billion below the existing level at December 31, 2017 (excluding the after-tax impact of any non-cash impairment charges) to reach the maximum covenant ratio.. The indentures governing our senior notes contain covenants that, among other things, limit our ability to create liens securing certain indebtedness, enter into certain sale and leaseback transactions, and consolidate, merge or transfer certain assets.. The covenants in our revolving credit facility and senior note indentures may restrict our ability to expand or pursue our business strategies. Our ability to comply with these and other provisions of our revolving credit facility or senior note indentures may be impacted by changes in economic or business conditions, results of operations, or events beyond our control. The breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our revolving credit facility or senior note indentures, in which case, depending on the actions taken by the lenders or trustees thereunder or their successors or assignees, could result in all amounts outstanding thereunder, together with accrued interest, to be due and payable. If our indebtedness is accelerated, our assets may not be sufficient to repay in full such indebtedness, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. A cyber incident could result in information theft, data corruption, operational disruption, and/or financial loss.. Our business and industry has become increasingly dependent on digital technologies to conduct day-to-day operations including certain exploration, development and production activities. We depend on digital technology, including information systems and related infrastructure as well as cloud applications and services, to process and record financial and operating data, analyze seismic and drilling information, conduct reservoir modeling and reserves estimation, communicate with employees and business associates, perform compliance reporting and many other activities related to our business. Our business associates, including vendors, service providers, purchasers of our production, and financial institutions, are also dependent on digital technology.. As dependence on digital technologies has increased, cyber incidents, including deliberate attacks or unintentional events, have also increased. Our technologies, systems, networks, and those of our business associates have been and may continue to be the target of cyber attacks or information security breaches, which could lead to disruptions in critical systems, unauthorized release or theft of confidential or protected information, corruption of data or other disruptions of our business operations. In addition, certain cyber incidents, such as surveillance, may remain undetected for an extended period.. A cyber attack involving our information systems and related infrastructure, or that of our business associates, could disrupt our business and negatively impact our operations in a variety of ways, including but not limited to:. 42. • unauthorized access to or theft of seismic data, reserves information, strategic information, or other sensitive or proprietary information could have a negative impact on our ability to compete for oil and gas resources;. • data corruption or operational disruption of production-related infrastructure could result in a loss of production, or accidental discharge;. • a cyber attack on a vendor or service provider could result in supply chain disruptions which could delay or halt our major development projects; and. • a cyber attack on third party transportation, processing, storage or refining facilities could delay or prevent us from transporting and marketing our production, resulting in a loss of revenues.. These events could damage our reputation and lead to financial losses from remedial actions, loss of business, or potential liability, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. To our knowledge we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber attacks; however, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer material losses in the future. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities.. Increases in interest rates could adversely affect our business.. The U.S. Federal Reserve increased the benchmark federal funds interest rate on three separate occasions in 2017 and is forecasting additional increases in 2018 and 2019. Our business and operating results can be adversely affected by increases in interest rates, the availability, terms of and cost of capital, or downgrades or other negative rating actions with respect to our credit rating. These factors could cause our cost of doing business to increase, limit our ability to pursue acquisition opportunities, reduce cash flows used for drilling and place us at a competitive disadvantage. We require continued access to capital. A significant reduction in cash flows from operations or the availability of credit could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. The inability of joint interest owners, derivative counterparties, significant customers, and service providers to meet their obligations to us may adversely affect our financial results.. Our principal exposure to credit risk is through the sale of our crude oil and natural gas production, which we market to energy marketing companies, crude oil refining companies, and natural gas gathering and processing companies ($672 million in receivables at December 31, 2017); our joint interest and other receivables ($427 million at December 31, 2017); and counterparty credit risk associated with our derivative instrument receivables ($3 million at December 31, 2017).. Joint interest receivables arise from billing the individuals and entities who own a partial interest in the wells we operate. These individuals and entities participate in our wells primarily based on their ownership in leases included in units on which we wish to drill. We can do very little to choose who participates in our wells.. We are also subject to credit risk due to concentration of our crude oil and natural gas receivables with significant customers. The two largest purchasers of our crude oil and natural gas during the year ended December 31, 2017 accounted for approximately 11% and 11%, respectively, of our total crude oil and natural gas revenues for the year. We have not generally required our counterparties to provide collateral to secure crude oil and natural gas sales receivables owed to us. Additionally, our use of derivative instruments involves the risk that our counterparties will be unable to meet their obligations.. Finally, we rely on oilfield service companies and midstream companies for services associated with the drilling and completion of wells and for certain midstream services. A worsening of the commodity price environment may result in a material adverse impact on the liquidity and financial position of the parties with whom we do business, resulting in delays in payment of, or non-payment of, amounts owed to us, delays in operations, loss of access to equipment and facilities and similar impacts. These events could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our derivative activities could result in financial losses or reduce our earnings.. To achieve more predictable cash flows and reduce our exposure to adverse fluctuations in commodity prices, from time to time we may enter into derivative instruments for a portion of our production. See Part II, Item 8. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements - Note 5. Derivative Instruments for a summary of our commodity derivative positions as of December 31, 2017. We do not designate any of our derivative instruments as hedges for accounting purposes and we record all derivatives on our balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the fair value of our derivatives are recognized in current period earnings. Accordingly, our earnings may fluctuate significantly as a result of changes in commodity prices and resulting changes in the fair value of our derivatives.. Derivative instruments expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including when:. 43. • production is less than the volume covered by the derivative instruments;. • the counterparty to the derivative instrument defaults on its contractual obligations; or. • there is an increase in the differential between the underlying price in the derivative instrument and actual prices received.. In addition, our derivative arrangements limit the benefit we would receive from increases in commodity prices. Our decision on the quantity and price at which we choose to hedge our future production, if any, is based in part on our view of current and future market conditions and our desire to stabilize cash flows necessary for the development of our proved reserves. We may choose not to hedge future production if the pricing environment for certain time periods is deemed to be unfavorable. Additionally, we may choose to liquidate existing derivative positions prior to the expiration of their contractual maturities in order to monetize gain positions for the purpose of funding our capital program.. We have hedged the majority of our forecasted 2018 natural gas production. Our future crude oil production is currently unhedged and directly exposed to continued volatility in market prices, whether favorable or unfavorable.. Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer beneficially owns approximately 76% of our outstanding common stock, giving him influence and control in corporate transactions and other matters, including a sale of our Company.. As of December 31, 2017, Harold G. Hamm, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owned approximately 76% of our outstanding common shares. As a result, Mr. Hamm has control over our Company and will continue to be able to control the election of our directors, determine our corporate and management policies and determine, without the consent of our other shareholders, the outcome of certain corporate transactions or other matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including potential mergers or acquisitions, asset sales and other significant corporate transactions. Therefore, Mr. Hamm could cause, delay or prevent a change of control of our Company. The interests of Mr. Hamm may not coincide with the interests of other holders of our common stock.. We have historically entered into, and may enter into, transactions from time to time with companies affiliated with Mr. Hamm if, after an independent review by our Audit Committee or by the independent members of our Board of Directors, it is determined such transactions are in the Company's best interests and are on terms no less favorable to us than could be achieved with an unaffiliated third party. These transactions may result in conflicts of interest between Mr. Hamm's affiliated companies and us.. We have been an early entrant into new or emerging plays. As a result, our drilling results in these areas are uncertain, and the value of our undeveloped acreage will decline if drilling results are unsuccessful.. While our costs to acquire undeveloped acreage in new or emerging plays have generally been less than those of later entrants into a developing play, our drilling results in new or emerging areas are more uncertain than drilling results in developed and producing areas. Since new or emerging plays have limited or no production history, we are unable to use past drilling results in those areas to help predict our future drilling results. As a result, our cost of drilling, completing and operating wells in these areas may be higher than initially expected, and the value of our undeveloped acreage will decline if drilling results are unsuccessful.. We may be subject to risks in connection with acquisitions, divestitures, and joint development arrangements.. As part of our business strategy, we have made and will likely continue to make acquisitions of oil and gas properties, divest of non-strategic assets, and enter into joint development arrangements. Suitable acquisition properties, buyers of our non-strategic assets, or joint development counterparties may not be available on terms and conditions we find acceptable or not at all.. The successful acquisition of producing properties requires an assessment of several factors, including but not limited to:. • recoverable reserves;. • future crude oil and natural gas prices and location and quality differentials;. • the quality of the title to acquired properties;. • future development costs, operating costs and property taxes; and. • potential environmental and other liabilities.. The accuracy of these acquisition assessments is inherently uncertain. In connection with these assessments, we perform a review, which we believe to be generally consistent with industry practices, of the subject properties. Our review will not reveal all existing or potential problems nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and capabilities prior to acquisition. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Even when problems are identified, the seller. 44. of the subject properties may be unwilling or unable to provide effective contractual protection against all or part of the problems. We sometimes are not entitled to contractual indemnification for environmental liabilities and acquire properties on an \"as is\" basis.. In addition, from time to time we may sell or otherwise dispose of certain non-strategic assets as a result of an evaluation of our asset portfolio or to provide cash flow for use in reducing debt and enhancing liquidity. Such divestitures have inherent risks, including possible delays in closing, the risk of lower-than-expected sales proceeds for the disposed assets, and potential post-closing adjustments and claims for indemnification. Additionally, volatility and unpredictability in commodity prices may result in fewer potential bidders, unsuccessful sales efforts, and a higher risk that buyers may seek to terminate a transaction prior to closing.. Terrorist activities could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Terrorist attacks and the threat of terrorist attacks, whether domestic or foreign attacks, as well as military or other actions taken in response to these acts, could cause instability in the global financial and energy markets. Continued hostilities in the Middle East and the occurrence or threat of terrorist attacks in the United States or other countries could adversely affect the global economy in unpredictable ways, including the disruption of energy supplies and markets, increased volatility in commodity prices or the possibility that infrastructure we rely on could be a direct target or an indirect casualty of an act of terrorism, and, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.. 45"
