[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. Risks Relating to Our Business. The loss or reduction in orders from principal customers, a reduction in prices we are able to charge these customers, or default by these customers on accounts receivable, would have a negative impact upon our business and financial results.. Our three largest customers for the year ended December 31, 2017, represented 21%, 20% and 14%, respectively, of our net sales. The markets we serve and are targeting for future business are subject to significant price competition and other competitive pressures, and our current customers are not contractually obligated to purchase products from us. For these and other reasons, customers may seek to obtain products or services from us at lower prices than we have been able to charge in the past, and they could terminate our relationship or reduce their purchases from us in favor of lower-priced alternatives. In addition, we have experienced losses of certain customers through industry consolidation, a trend that may increase in our markets, and in the ordinary course of business. The further loss of any of our principal customers, the default by customers on the amounts they owe us, a reduction in the amount of product or services our principal customers order from us or the inability to maintain current terms, including price, with these or other customers, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. 3. We sustained losses in each of the last three years. If we are unable to achieve sustained profitability, our business may not be financially viable.. For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, we reported net losses of $4.7 million, $2.8 million and $1.2 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2017, our cash balance was $612,000, we had net working capital of $6.7 million and no outstanding debt. While our 2018 business plan includes objectives to achieve profitability, if we do not succeed in these objectives, our business might continue to experience losses and may not be sustainable in the future.. We may not succeed in our development, introduction and establishment of proprietary products in our markets.. The development, introduction, establishment and maintenance of new products in our proprietary verykool® line requires a significant investment in product development, sourcing, manufacturing and marketing. In addition, our new products may not be well - received by our customers or end-users. Further, failure to adequately carry out our product marketing, sales and delivery strategy or otherwise be successful in promoting our verykool® brand may result in inventory obsolescence, including inventory which we have built in anticipation of market acceptance of our products. If any of these events occur, our financial condition and operating results would be negatively impacted.. Our operating results may vary significantly, which may cause our stock price to fluctuate.. Our operating results are influenced by a number of factors that may cause our sales and operating results to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. These factors include:. •  the addition or loss of customer or supplier relationships;. •  product availability and cost;. •  market competition and selling prices;. •  the cost of promotions, price protection and subsidies;. •  U.S. and foreign government policies and stability;. •  the timing of introduction of new products by our suppliers and competitors;. •  purchasing patterns of customers in different markets; and. •  general economic conditions.. Our operating performance may cause our stock price to fluctuate. Between January 1, 2017 and March 5, 2018, our stock price has fluctuated between $1.21 and $5.20 per share, and we anticipate that significant volatility in our stock price will continue for the foreseeable future.. We may not have sufficient capital to grow our business.. We currently do not have a bank line of credit. While we believe that lines of credit with our primary suppliers, together with our current working capital, may adequately fund our operations at the current level for the coming year, the lack of financing or other available capital could impede the sustainability and future growth of our business.. We face many risks relating to intellectual property rights.. Our business will be harmed if we or our manufacturers are found (or in some instances, even when only claims are made) to have infringed intellectual property rights of third parties, or if our intellectual property protection is inadequate to protect proprietary rights used in our verykool® product line.. Although all our proprietary verykool® smartphones utilize open source Android operating systems, they are comprised of complex technology, and we may be subject to or impacted by litigation regarding intellectual property rights. Third parties in the past have asserted and may in the future assert intellectual property infringement claims against us and against our manufacturers. Defending claims may be expensive and divert the time and efforts of our management and employees. For example, one of the reasons we exited the U.S. market in the fourth quarter of 2016 is because of the cost and diversion of management due to third-party patent claims.  Increasingly, third parties have sought broad injunctive relief in our industry, which could ultimately limit our ability to sell our verykool® products. If litigation arises (whether we do succeed in such litigation or not), we could be required to expend significant resources (for legal costs, to pay damages and otherwise), develop non-infringing intellectual property or to obtain licenses to the intellectual property that is the subject of such litigation. However, we cannot be certain that any such licenses, if available at all, will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. In some cases, we might be forced to stop delivering certain or all of our verykool® products if we or our manufacturers are subject to a final injunction or other restrictions.. 4. Typically, our manufacturers are unwilling to provide us with intellectual property indemnities for infringement of third-party intellectual property rights. Any manufacturer's indemnity we are able to obtain may not cover any or all damages and losses suffered by us due to a potentially infringing verykool® product, and a manufacturer may not choose to accept a license or to modify or replace its products with non-infringing products, which would otherwise mitigate such damages and losses. Further, we may not be able to participate in intellectual property litigation involving a manufacturer or influence any ultimate outcome that may adversely impact products or our sales, such as an injunction or other restrictions relating to our verykool® products.. In addition, it may be possible for a third party to obtain and use our or our manufacturers' proprietary information or develop similar technology relating to our verykool® products independently. Furthermore, effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited, especially in certain foreign countries, such as China, where adherence to enforcement of intellectual property rights is not as prevalent or available as in other countries, such as the United States. Unauthorized use of our or our manufacturers' intellectual property rights by third parties and the cost of any litigation necessary to enforce our or our manufacturers' intellectual property rights could have an adverse impact on our business.. The majority of our revenues during the year ended December 31, 2017 were, and for the near future will likely continue to be, generated outside of the United States, in countries that may have volatile currencies or other risks.. The vast majority of our sales activities are conducted in territories and countries outside of the United States, primarily in Latin America. The majority of our sales transactions in Latin America are denominated in U.S. Dollars and therefore may be impacted by changes in the strength of the U.S. Dollar relative to the foreign economies where we conduct business. Sales transactions in Mexico are denominated in the Mexican Peso, which has been a very volatile currency in relation to the U.S. Dollar and resulted in a $2.6 million accumulated other comprehensive loss on our balance sheet at December 31, 2017. Further, the fact that we sell all of our products into, and have developed and manufactured products in, a number of territories and countries other than the United States exposes us to, among other things, increased credit risks, customs duties, import quotas and other trade restrictions and risks, potentially greater and more unpredictable inflationary and currency pressures, labor risks and shipping delays. Changes may occur in social, political, regulatory (including tax) and economic conditions or in laws and policies governing foreign trade, manufacturing, development and investment in the territories and countries where we currently develop and sell products. United States laws and regulations relating to investment and trade in foreign countries could also change to our detriment. We are particularly exposed to the fact that all our manufacturing sources are in China, which may change its own policies on business and foreign investment in companies there, and much of our sales are made in Latin America, including Mexico, where the Trump administration has indicated that potential trade policy changes could be made in the near term. Any of these factors could have material adverse effects on our business and operations. Also, although we purchase and sell products primarily in U.S. Dollars and do not engage in significant exchange swaps, futures or options contracts or other hedging techniques, fluctuations in currency exchange rates could reduce demand for products sold in U.S. Dollars. We cannot predict the effect that future exchange rate fluctuations will have on our operating results or financial position. Although we occasionally engage in currency hedging transactions related to our sales to customers in Mexico, such transactions have in the past, and may in the future, result in significant additional financial risks, including increased costs and losses.. We may not be able to adequately respond to rapid technological changes in the wireless handset industry, which could cause us to lose customers.. The technology relating to wireless handsets changes rapidly, resulting in product obsolescence or short product life cycles. We are required to anticipate future technological changes in our industry and to continually identify, obtain and market new products that will satisfy evolving industry and customer requirements. Although we work closely with our technology partners to keep our proprietary verykool® products competitive in terms of technology and features, there is no guarantee we will have success with this, which could materially affect our business. Competitors or manufacturers of wireless handsets may market products which have perceived or actual advantages over products that we market or which otherwise render those products obsolete or less marketable. Furthermore, if we do not adequately anticipate future technological changes, we may not establish appropriate supplier relationships or perform appropriate product development. These factors all pose significant risks to loss of customers and decreased sales and profitability.. Substantial defaults by our customers on accounts receivables could have a significant negative impact on our cash flow and financial condition.. We offer open account terms to certain of our customers, both large and small, which may subject us to credit risks, particularly to the extent that our receivables represent sales to a limited number of customers or are concentrated in particular geographic markets. A substantial default by a major customer, or multiple customers, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, cash flow and results of operations.. 5. We rely on our information technology systems to function efficiently, without interruptions, and if they do not, customer relationships could be harmed.. We are dependent upon our information systems to manage our business and to be responsive to our customers' needs. These systems may experience interruptions, including interruptions of related services from third-party providers which may be beyond our control. Such business interruptions could cause us to fail to meet customer requirements and could result in the loss of business relationships. All information technology systems, both internal and external, are potentially vulnerable to damage or interruption from a variety of sources, including, without limitation, computer viruses and malware, security breaches, energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication failures, as well as third-party provider failures. We have implemented various measures to manage our risks related to system and network disruptions, but a systems failure or security breach or other problem with our information technology systems could negatively impact our operations and financial results.. We face risks related to our dependence on third parties to manufacture our proprietary verykool® products.. Our third party manufacturers typically provide limited or no warranties on their products. We generally pass through any warranties received from our manufacturers to our customers, and in absence of such warranties, we are solely responsible for the products. If a product we source from a manufacturer has delivery, quality or performance problems, our ability to provide satisfactory products to our customers could be disrupted (including, for example, during and after Chinese New Year) and our reputation could be impaired. We also may be unable to sell these products before payment is due to our manufacturers or at prices above our cost. Any of these risks could have a negative impact on our business and operations.. The wireless handset industry is intensely competitive and we may not be able to continue to compete against well-established competitors with greater resources.. We compete for sales of wireless handsets and accessories with numerous well-established manufacturers, carriers and distributors, sometimes including our own suppliers and customers. Many of our competitors possess greater financial and other resources than we do and may market similar products or services directly to our customers or potential customers. Sourcing and distribution of wireless handsets and accessories has generally had low barriers to entry. As a result, additional competitors may choose to enter our industry in the future. The markets for wireless handsets and accessories are characterized by intense price competition and significant price erosion over the life of a product. Many of our competitors have the financial resources to withstand substantial price competition and to implement extensive advertising and promotional programs, both generally and in response to efforts by additional competitors to enter into new markets or introduce new products. Our ability to continue to compete successfully will depend largely on our ability to maintain our current industry relationships, with both manufacturers and carrier customers, as well as differentiate our verykool® branded products from the competition. We may not be successful in anticipating and responding to competitive factors affecting our industry or these relationships, including introduction of new products, changes in consumer preferences, demographic trends, new or changing outsourcing requirements, the entry of additional well-capitalized competitors, international, national, regional and local economic conditions, and competitors' discount pricing and promotion strategies. As wireless telecommunications markets continue to mature, and as we seek to enter into new markets and offer new products, the competition that we face may change and grow more intense.. We rely on trade secret laws and agreements with our key employees and other third parties to protect our proprietary rights, which may not afford adequate protection.. We rely on trade secret laws to protect our proprietary knowledge, particularly, the information and technology related to our verykool® brand, our database of customers and suppliers and business terms, such as pricing. In general, we also have non-disclosure agreements with our key employees and limit disclosure of our trade secrets and other proprietary information. These measures may prove difficult to enforce and may not prove adequate to prevent misappropriation of our proprietary information.. We are dependent on a small number of personnel.. Our success depends in large part on the abilities and continued service of our executive officers, particularly Joseph Ram, our CEO and largest stockholder, and other key employees. If we are unable to retain our executive officers or other key personnel, it could impede our ability to fully and timely implement our business plan and future growth strategy. In addition, in order to support our continued growth, we will be required to effectively recruit, develop and retain additional qualified management. Competition for such personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully attract, assimilate or retain sufficiently qualified personnel.. 6. We may become subject to lawsuits alleging medical risks associated with our wireless handsets, the cost of which could be substantial.. Lawsuits or claims have been filed or made against manufacturers of wireless handsets alleging possible medical risks, including brain cancer, associated with the electromagnetic fields emitted by wireless handsets. There has been research in this area, and this research has not been conclusive as to what effects, if any, exposure to electromagnetic fields emitted by wireless handsets has on human cells. Substantially all of our revenues are derived, either directly or indirectly, from sales of wireless handsets. We may become subject to lawsuits filed by plaintiffs alleging various health risks from our products. If any future studies find possible health risks associated with the use of wireless handsets, or if any damages claimed against us or a business partner are successful, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Even an unsubstantiated perception that health risks exist could adversely affect our ability or the ability of our customers to market wireless handsets.. Risks Related To Our Common Stock. The market for our common stock is volatile and our stock price could decline.. An active trading market for our common stock may not be sustained, which could affect the ability of our stockholders to sell their shares and could depress the market price of our shares. The stock market in general, including the market for telecommunications-related stocks in particular, may be volatile. Our stock, for example, has had both a volatile trading volume and share price over the last 15 months. The closing price of our common stock has fluctuated between $1.21 and $5.20 from January 1, 2017 through March 5, 2018. Trading volume and the market price of our common stock has been and is likely to remain volatile, and investors in our common stock may experience a decrease in the value of their stock, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects, resulting in a substantial loss on their investment.. We may be delisted from The NASDAQ Stock Market if we do not satisfy continued listing requirements.. At various times over the last several years we faced potential delisting from The NASDAQ Stock Market for failure to maintain the minimum $1.00 bid price per share requirement for continued listing. On May 3, 2016, we received a NASDAQ staff Deficiency letter indicating that, for the prior thirty consecutive business days, the bid price for our common stock had closed below the minimum $1.00 per share requirement for continued listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market under NASDAQ Listing Rule 5550(a)(2). In accordance with NASDAQ Listing Rule 5810(c)(3)(A), we were provided an initial period of 180 calendar days, or until October 31, 2016, to regain compliance. Although we failed to regain compliance by October 31, 2016, we were granted an additional 180 calendar day period by NASDAQ, or until May 1, 2017, to regain compliance.. As of May 1, 2017, we had not regained compliance with the bid price requirement and requested an oral hearing before the NASDAQ Hearings Panel (the \"Panel\") that was held on June 1, 2017. We presented a plan to the Panel to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement which included the Merger and a reverse stock split, and requested a further extension of time to execute the plan. On June 6, 2017, we received a letter from the Nasdaq Office of General Counsel advising us of the decision of the Panel to grant the Company an extension of time until October 30, 2017.. On October 10, 2017, we effected a 1-for-5 reverse stock split in order to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement.  On October 25, 2017, after 10 consecutive days of trading, we received notification from the NASDAQ Stock Market indicating that we had regained compliance.. We intend to closely monitor the bid price of our stock in light of the Merger. Nasdaq Listing Rule 5110(a) requires that because the Merger with Cooltech (a non-Nasdaq entity) will result in a change of control, we have submitted an initial listing application for the post-Merger entity, which requires us to comply with a higher minimum bid price requirement of $4.00 per share and will necessitate an additional reverse stock split that is being presented to our stockholders for approval.. 7. If our common stock were delisted from The NASDAQ Stock Market, you may find it difficult to dispose of your shares and our share price may be adversely affected.. If our common stock is delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market and the trading price remains below $5.00 per share, trading in our common stock might also become subject to the requirements of certain rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which require additional disclosure by broker-dealers in connection with any trade involving a stock defined as a \"penny stock\" (generally, any equity security not listed on a national securities exchange or quoted on The NASDAQ Stock Market that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions). Many brokerage firms are reluctant to recommend low-priced stocks to their clients. Moreover, various regulations and policies restrict the ability of stockholders to borrow against or \"margin\" low-priced stocks, and declines in the stock price below certain levels may trigger unexpected margin calls. Additionally, because brokers' commissions on low-priced stocks generally represent a higher percentage of the stock price than commissions on higher priced stocks, the current price of the common stock can result in an individual stockholder paying transaction costs that represent a higher percentage of total share value than would be the case if our share price were higher. This factor may also limit the willingness of institutions to purchase our common stock. Finally, the additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by these requirements could discourage broker-dealers from facilitating trades in our common stock, which could severely limit the market liquidity of the stock and the ability of investors to trade our common stock, thereby negatively impacting the share price of our common stock.. If our common stock were to be delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market, trading of our common stock most likely would be conducted in the over-the-counter market on an electronic bulletin board established for unlisted securities such as OTC Pink, OTCQX, OTCQB or the OTC Bulletin Board. Such trading would reduce the market liquidity of our common stock. As a result, an investor would find it more difficult to dispose of, or obtain accurate quotations for the price of, our common stock, thereby negatively impacting the share price of our common stock.. The ability of our stockholders to control our policies or effect a change in control of our company is limited, which may not be in our stockholders' best interests.. Some provisions of our charter and bylaws and the General Corporation Law of Maryland, under which we are incorporated, may delay or prevent a change in control of our Company or other transactions that could provide our common stockholders with a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our common stock or that might otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. These include the ability of our Board of Directors to authorize the issuance of preferred stock without stockholder approval, which preferred stock may have voting provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. Maryland law imposes restrictions on some business combinations and requires compliance with statutory procedures before some mergers and acquisitions can occur. These provisions of Maryland law may have the effect of discouraging offers to acquire us even if the acquisition would be advantageous to our stockholders.. Stockholders have been and may be diluted as a result of past or future offerings or other financings or equity grants, including substantial dilution from the Cooltech Merger.. We have raised and may in the future raise additional capital through one or more public offerings, private placements or other financings involving our securities. In May 2015, we filed a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 that could allow us to issue various types of equity securities, from time to time, up to potentially an aggregate amount of $25 million. In August 2017 in a public offering from the shelf registration statement, we sold 500,000 shares of common stock and privately placed warrants to purchase an additional 500,000 shares of common stock to investors affiliated with Cooltech.  Also in August 2017 in a private placement, we sold on a contingent basis 875,000 shares of common stock and warrants to purchase an additional 875,000 shares of common stock to investors affiliated with Cooltech.  Both the shares and the proceeds from this sale are being held in escrow pending the completion of the Merger.  In January 2018 in a private placement, we sold $1 million face value of three year 0% convertible notes and warrants to purchase 571,427 shares of common stock to investors affiliated with Cooltech. In March 2018, we expect to issue 9,375,000 of common stock to acquire Cooltech in connection with the closing of the Merger. In addition, we have made or may make stock option and other equity incentive grants. As a result of the Merger and these financings or grants, ownership interests in us may be substantially diluted.. 8. Our largest stockholder may have strategic interests that differ from those of our other stockholders, and can significantly influence important corporate matters.. As of March 5, 2018, our Chief Executive Officer, Joseph Ram, beneficially owned approximately 21% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, Mr. Ram may be able to significantly influence corporate actions relating to:. •  controlling the composition of our board of directors;. •  controlling our management and policies;. •  determining the outcome of significant corporate transactions, including changes in control that may not be beneficial to other stockholders; and. •  acting in his own interest, which may conflict with, or be different from, the interests of other stockholders.. Risk Factors Related to the Merger. Although InfoSonics and Cooltech expect that the Merger will result in benefits to the combined company, the combined company may not realize those benefits because of various challenges.. InfoSonics and Cooltech believe that the Merger will result in greater returns for the InfoSonics stockholders than if InfoSonics remained as a standalone entity. However, the integration of a new company is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. This process may disrupt the business of either or both of the companies, and may not result in the full benefits expected by InfoSonics and Cooltech. There can be no assurance that the combination of InfoSonics and Cooltech will result in the realization of the anticipated benefits from the Merger.. The pendency of the Merger could have an adverse effect on our stock price and/or our business, financial condition, results of operations or business prospects.. The pendency of the Merger could have an adverse effect on our stock price and increase the price volatility and risk of trading in our stock. Our business, financial condition, results of operations or business prospects could also be adversely affected. In addition, the attention of our management may be directed toward the completion of the Merger and related matters and may be diverted from the day-to-day business operations, including from other opportunities that otherwise might be beneficial to us.. Failure to complete the Merger could impact negatively our business, financial condition or results of operations or our stock price.. The completion of the Merger is subject to a number of conditions and there can be no assurance that the conditions to the completion of the Merger will be satisfied. If the Merger is not completed, InfoSonics will be subject to several risks, including:. •  the current trading price of InfoSonics Common Stock may reflect a market assumption that the Merger will occur, meaning that a failure to complete the Merger could result in a decline in the price of InfoSonics Common Stock;. •  certain of our executive officers and/or directors may seek other employment opportunities, and the departure of any of our executive officers and the possibility that InfoSonics would be unable to recruit and hire a replacement executive could impact negatively our business and operating results;. •  the InfoSonics Board would need to reevaluate our strategic alternatives, which alternatives may include a sale of the Company, liquidation of the Company, a return to pre-Merger strategies of growing commercial sales, or other strategic transactions;. •  we have incurred and will continue to incur substantial transaction costs in connection with the Merger whether or not the Merger is completed;. •  we would not realize any of the anticipated benefits of having completed the Merger; and. •  under the Merger Agreement, we are subject to certain restrictions on the conduct of our business prior to the completion of the Merger, which restrictions could adversely affect our ability to realize our business strategies or take advantage of certain business opportunities in the event the Merger is not completed.. If the Merger is not completed, these risks may materialize and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or stock price.. 9. The issuance of shares of InfoSonics Common Stock to Cooltech stockholders in connection with the Merger will dilute substantially the voting power of our current stockholders.. Pursuant to the Merger Agreement and assuming that Cooltech stockholders purchased all shares and warrants issued by InfoSonics in the Public Offering and will purchase all shares and warrants issued in the Private Placement, as defined and discussed herein, at the effective time of the Merger, InfoSonics will issue shares of InfoSonics Common Stock to the former Cooltech stockholders which, together with the InfoSonics Common Stock, will represent approximately 78.9% of the shares of InfoSonics Common Stock after the Merger, subject to adjustment pursuant to the Merger Agreement. Further, on a fully diluted basis, assuming the former Cooltech stockholders also purchase all notes and warrants issued in the Note Private Placement, the former Cooltech stockholders would hold approximately 82.2% of the shares of InfoSonics Common Stock after the Merger on a fully diluted basis. Accordingly, the issuance of shares of InfoSonics Common Stock to Cooltech stockholders in connection with the Merger will reduce significantly the relative voting power of each share of InfoSonics Common Stock held by our current stockholders. Consequently, our stockholders as a group will have significantly less influence over the management and policies of the combined company after the Merger than prior to the Merger.. If the option to purchase certain assets is approved and exercised after consummation of the Merger, a substantial number of shares of InfoSonics Common Stock will be issued to Cooltech stockholders in connection thereof and will dilute substantially the voting power of our current stockholders.. Pursuant to the terms of the Option Agreement, Cooltech, through OneClick International, LLC and OneClick License, LLC (together, \"OneClick\"), was granted the option to purchase certain assets used in retail operations in the Dominican Republic (the \"Unitron Assets\") from the current owners (the \"Option\"). The Option is exercisable from the period beginning at the effective time of the Merger and ending on the twelve (12) month anniversary of grant date (the \"Option Period \"), unless further extended in accordance with the terms of the Option Agreement. Upon exercise of the Option, the Unitron Assets would be transferred to OneClick in exchange for $4,568,000.. Upon exercise of the Option during the Option Period, InfoSonics will issue a total of 3,125,000 shares of InfoSonics Common Stock (including the securities convertible into common stock) to former Cooltech stockholders, provided all necessary approvals as set forth in the Merger Agreement have been obtained. Former Cooltech stockholders who are entitled to Merger Consideration will be entitled to receive their pro rata portion of the 3,125,000 shares of InfoSonics Common Stock if the Option is exercised. Accordingly as a result of the Option exercise, former Cooltech stockholders may receive an additional 3,125,000 shares of InfoSonics Common Stock, which represents approximately 18.7% of the shares of InfoSonics Common Stock outstanding after the Merger, and which, together with the Merger Consideration issuance at the effective time of the Merger completion of the Public Offering and the Private Placement, will represent approximately 83% of the shares of InfoSonics Common Stock held by former Cooltech stockholders after the effective time of the Merger and upon exercise of the Option.. Accordingly, the issuance of shares of InfoSonics Common Stock to Cooltech stockholders in connection with the Option will further reduce significantly the relative voting power of each share of InfoSonics Common Stock held by our current stockholders and result in substantial dilution. Consequently, our stockholders as a group will have significantly less influence over the management and policies of the combined company after exercise of this Option than prior to exercise of this Option. However there is no assurance that the Option will be exercised during the Option Period. Our stockholders, prior to voting for approval of the Merger, should consider carefully the full potential dilution that may be experienced as a result of the Merger, including the issuance upon exercise of the Option.. Exercise of the Option is expressly conditioned upon OneClick first obtaining InfoSonics' post-Merger Board of Directors (in addition to any post-Merger Special Committee of the InfoSonics' Board) approval of the transactions contemplated in the Option, a fairness opinion regarding the Option consideration if required or reasonably necessary, and all regulatory and national securities exchange approvals/consents for the transactions contemplated in the Option, including the 3,125,000 share issuance.. The Merger will result in changes to the InfoSonics Board and InfoSonics will pursue different strategies after the Merger than we have pursued independently.. If the Merger is completed, the composition of the InfoSonics Board will change in accordance with the Merger Agreement. Following completion of the Merger, the InfoSonics Board is expected to consist of five members. Initially, the InfoSonics Board is expected to be comprised of Robert Picow and four directors appointed by former Cooltech stockholders. Because a majority of the InfoSonics Board after the Merger will initially be comprised of directors selected by Cooltech, following the Merger we will pursue certain business strategies that we would not have pursued had the Merger not taken place.. 10. We cannot predict when or if the Merger will close.. The Merger is contingent upon a number of conditions beyond our control. We are, therefore, unable to accurately predict when or if the Merger will close. If we are unable to close the Merger for any reason, we will not realize the potential benefits of the Merger and may face significant liquidity risks, which may have a material adverse effect on our business prospects and the value of our common stock.. The potential Merger will subject us to significant additional liabilities and other risks and will cause us to incur significant expenses.. Following the Merger, we will be subject to substantially all the liabilities of Cooltech. The Merger and subsequent integration process may be complex, costly, time-consuming and divert management's time and attention, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We expect to incur a significant amount of expenses in connection with the Merger, including legal, accounting, financial advisory and other expenses. Many of these expenses are payable by us whether or not the Merger is completed.. If we are unable to consummate the Merger, our stock price may be adversely affected and our financial condition and liquidity position may materially suffer.. If the Merger is not completed for any reason, the trading price of our common stock may decline to the extent that the market price of our common stock reflects positive market assumptions that the Merger will be completed and the related benefits will be realized. In addition, if the Merger is not completed our financial condition could materially suffer, including with respect to our liquidity position, which may be substantially negatively impacted due to expenses related to the Merger.. The Merger will result in a change of control of InfoSonics, and Cooltech will be required to submit a new application under NASDAQ's original listing standards. If such application is not approved by NASDAQ, our common stock may be delisted from the NASDAQ Stock Market.. In connection with the Merger, the Company will issue 9,375,000 shares of common as consideration to Cooltech stockholders under the Merger Agreement. We believe that this issuance will result in a change of control of the Company. NASDAQ Listing Rule 5110(a) provides that a company must apply for initial listing in connection with a transaction whereby a company combines with a non-NASDAQ entity, resulting in a change of control of such company and potentially allowing the non-NASDAQ entity to effectively obtain NASDAQ listing. In determining whether a change of control has occurred, NASDAQ considers all relevant factors including, changes in management, board of directors, voting power, ownership and financial structure of the Company. If our initial listing application is not approved by NASDAQ pursuant to Rule 5110(a), our common stock may be delisted from the NASDAQ Stock Market."
