[1] "Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. Some of the more significant risk factors related to the Company follow:. Pricing volatility for raw materials or commodities or an inadequate supply of key raw materials could result in increased costs and may significantly affect the Company's profitability.. The pricing volatility for natural rubber, petroleum-based materials and other raw materials contributes to the difficulty in managing the costs of raw materials. Costs for certain raw materials used in the Company's operations, including natural rubber, chemicals, carbon black, steel reinforcements and synthetic rubber remain highly volatile. Increasing costs for raw material supplies will increase the Company's production costs and affect its margins if the Company is unable to pass the higher production costs on to its customers in the form of price increases. Even if the Company is able to pass along these higher costs, its profitability may be adversely affected until it is able to do so.  Decreasing costs for raw materials could also affect margins if the Company is unable to maintain its pricing structure due to the need to offer price reductions to remain competitive. Further, if the Company is unable to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials in a timely manner for any reason, its operations could be interrupted or otherwise adversely affected.. The Company is facing heightened risks due to the uncertain business environment.. Current global economic conditions may affect demand for the Company's products, create volatility in raw material costs and affect the availability and cost of credit. These conditions also affect the Company's customers and suppliers as well as the ultimate consumer.. Deterioration in the global macroeconomic environment or in specific regions could impact the Company and, depending upon the severity and duration of these factors, the Company's profitability and liquidity position could be negatively impacted.. The Company's competitors may also change their actions as a result of changes to the business environment, which could result in increased price competition and discounts, resulting in lower margins or reduced sales volumes for the business.. In addition, the bankruptcy, restructuring or consolidation of one or more of the Company's major customers or suppliers could result in the write-off of accounts receivable, a reduction in purchases of the Company's products or a supply disruption to its facilities, which could harm the Company's results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. The Company's results could be impacted by changes in tariffs, trade agreements or other trade restrictions imposed by the U.S. or other governments on imported tires or raw materials.. The Company's ability to competitively source and sell tires can be significantly impacted by changes in tariffs, changes or repeals of trade agreements, including withdrawal from or material modifications to NAFTA or certain other international trade agreements, or other trade restrictions imposed by various governments. Other effects, including impacts on the price of tires, responsive actions from governments and the opportunity for competitors to establish a presence in markets where the Company participates, could also have significant impacts on the Company's results.. For example, antidumping and countervailing duty investigations into certain passenger car and light truck tires imported from the PRC into the United States were initiated on July 14, 2014. The determinations announced in both investigations were affirmative and resulted in the imposition of significant additional duties from each. The countervailing duty determination is undergoing an Administrative Review with the final results being expected in the first quarter of 2018.. In addition, antidumping and countervailing duty investigations into certain truck and bus tires imported from the PRC into the U.S. were initiated on January 29, 2016. The preliminary determinations announced in both investigations were affirmative and resulted in the imposition of significant additional duties from each. On February 22, 2017, the International Trade Commission (\"ITC\") made a final determination that the U.S. market had not suffered material injury because of imports of truck and bus tires from China.  As a result of this decision, preliminary antidumping and countervailing duties from Chinese truck and bus tires imported subsequent to the preliminary determination were not collected and any amounts previously paid were refunded.   On April 14, 2017, the United Steelworkers Union filed a civil action challenging the ITC's decision not to impose duties on truck and bus tires from China imported into the U.S. Currently, the Company sources its truck and bus tires exclusively from the PRC.. The imposition of additional duties or other trade restrictions in the U.S. or elsewhere on raw materials used by the Company or on certain tires imported from the PRC or other countries will result in higher costs and potentially lower margins, or in the case of finished goods, in those tires being diverted to other regions of the world, such as Europe, Latin America or elsewhere in Asia, which could materially harm the Company's results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. -. 6. -. Table of Contents. The Company's industry is highly competitive, and the Company may not be able to compete effectively with lower-cost producers and larger competitors.. The tire industry is a highly competitive, global industry. Some of the Company's competitors are larger companies with greater financial resources. Intense competitive activity in the replacement tire industry has caused, and will continue to cause, pressures on the Company's business. As the Company increases its presence in the original equipment market, the demand for products by the OEM's will be impacted by automotive vehicle production.  The Company's ability to compete successfully will depend in part on its ability to balance capacity with demand, leverage global purchasing of raw materials, make required investments to improve productivity, eliminate redundancies and increase production at low-cost, high-quality supply sources. If the Company is unable to offset continued pressures with improved operating efficiencies, its sales, margins, operating results and market share would decline and the impact could become material on the Company's earnings.. The Company is facing supply risks related to certain tires it purchases from PCT.. In 2014, the Company sold its ownership interest in PCT and entered into off-take agreements with PCT to provide the continuous supply of certain medium truck and passenger car tires for the Company through mid-2018. The medium truck tire agreement has been extended and now expires in mid-2019.  If there are any disruptions in or quality issues with the supply of Cooper-branded products from PCT, it could have a material negative impact on the Company's business. The Company is actively pursuing options to ensure the uninterrupted supply of these tires to meet the demands of the business beyond the terms of the PCT off-take agreements, including sourcing through GRT and an off-take agreement with Sailun, but there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to do so in a timely manner. The Company currently sources medium truck tires from GRT and PCT.. If the Company fails to develop technologies, processes or products needed to support consumer demand or, changes in consumer behavior, it may lose significant market share or be unable to recover associated costs.. The Company's ability to sell tires may be significantly impacted if it does not develop or have available technologies, processes, or products that competitors may be developing and consumers demanding. This includes, but is not limited to, changes in the design of and materials used to manufacture tires, changes in the types of tires consumers desire, changes in the vehicles consumers are purchasing and failure to effectively compete in various sales channels, including digital channels and others in which the Company has been less active in the past.. Technologies or processes may also be developed by competitors that better distribute tires to consumers, which could affect the Company's customers and implementation of it's strategic plan.. An increase in consumer preference for car- and ride-sharing services, as opposed to automobile ownership, may result in a long term reduction in the number of vehicles per capita. Additionally, developing new products and technologies requires significant investment and capital expenditures, is technologically challenging and requires extensive testing and accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. If the Company fails to develop new products that are appealing to its customers, or fails to develop products on time and within budgeted amounts, the Company may be unable to recover its product development and testing costs. If the Company cannot successfully use new production or equipment methodologies it invests in, it may also not be able to recover those costs.. Any interruption in the Company's skilled workforce, or that of its suppliers or customers, including labor disruptions, could impair its operations and harm its earnings and results of operations.. The Company's operations depend on maintaining a skilled workforce and any interruption of its workforce due to shortages of skilled technical, production or professional workers, work disruptions, or other events could interrupt the Company's operations and affect its operating results. Further, a significant number of the Company's employees are currently represented by unions. If the Company is unable to resolve any labor disputes or if there are work stoppages or other work disruptions at the Company or any of its suppliers or customers, the Company's business and operating results could suffer. See also related comments under \"The Company is facing supply risks related to certain tires it purchases from PCT.\". If the Company is unable to attract and retain key personnel, its business could be materially adversely affected.. The Company's business depends on the continued service of key members of its management. The loss of the services of a significant number of members of its management team could have a material adverse effect on its business. The Company's future success will also depend on its ability to attract, retain and develop highly skilled personnel, such as engineering, marketing and senior management professionals. Competition for these employees is intense and the Company could experience difficulty in hiring and retaining the personnel necessary to support its business. If the Company does not succeed in retaining its current employees and attracting new high-quality employees, its business could be materially adversely affected.. -. 7. -. Table of Contents. A disruption in, or failure of, the Company's information technology systems, including those related to cybersecurity, could adversely affect the Company's business operations and financial performance.. The Company relies on the accuracy, capacity and security of its information technology systems across all of its major business functions, including its research and development, manufacturing, sales, financial and administrative functions. While the Company maintains some of its critical information technology systems, it is also dependent on third parties to provide important information technology services relating to, among other things, human resources, electronic communications and certain finance functions. Additionally, the Company collects and stores sensitive data, including intellectual property, proprietary business information and the proprietary business information of its customers and suppliers, as well as personally identifiable information of the Company's customers and employees, in data centers and on information technology networks. Despite the security measures that the Company has implemented, including those related to cybersecurity, its systems could be breached or damaged by computer viruses, natural or man-made incidents or disasters or unauthorized physical or electronic access. Furthermore, the Company may have little or no oversight with respect to security measures employed by third-party service providers, which may ultimately prove to be ineffective at countering threats. A system failure, accident or security breach could result in business disruption, theft of its intellectual property, trade secrets or customer information and unauthorized access to personnel information. To the extent that any system failure, accident or security breach results in disruptions to its operations or the theft, loss or disclosure of, or damage to, its data or confidential information, the Company's reputation, business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, the Company may be required to incur significant costs to protect against and, if required, remediate the damage caused by such disruptions or system failures in the future.. The Company may be adversely affected by legal actions, including product liability claims which, if successful, could have a negative impact on its financial position, cash flows and results of operations.. The Company's operations expose it to legal actions, including potential liability for personal injury or death as an alleged result of the failure of or conditions in the products that it designs, manufactures and sells. Specifically, the Company is a party to a number of product liability cases in which individuals involved in motor vehicle accidents seek damages resulting from allegedly defective tires that it manufactured. Product liability claims and lawsuits, including possible class action, may result in material losses in the future and cause the Company to incur significant litigation defense costs. The Company is largely self-insured against these claims. These claims could have a negative effect on the Company's financial position, cash flows and results of operations.. From time to time, the Company is also subject to litigation or other commercial disputes and other legal proceedings relating to its business. Due to the inherent uncertainties of any litigation, commercial disputes or other legal proceedings, the Company cannot accurately predict their ultimate outcome, including the outcome of any related appeals. An unfavorable outcome could materially adversely impact the Company's financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. The Company conducts its manufacturing, sales and distribution operations on a worldwide basis and is subject to risks associated with doing business outside the U.S.. The Company has affiliate, subsidiary and joint venture operations worldwide, including in the U.S., Europe, Mexico and the PRC. The Company has a wholly-owned manufacturing entity, Cooper Kunshan Tire, and is the majority owner of GRT, both in the PRC. The Company also is the majority owner of COOCSA, a manufacturing entity in Mexico, and has established operations in Serbia and the U.K. PCT, located in the PRC, is currently a supplier of medium truck tires for the Company and the Company recently entered into an off-take agreement with Sailun, located in Vietnam, for the supply of medium truck tires. There are a number of risks in doing business abroad, including political and economic uncertainty, social unrest, sudden changes in laws and regulations, ability to enforce existing or future contracts, shortages of trained labor and the uncertainties associated with entering into joint ventures or similar arrangements in foreign countries. These risks may impact the Company's ability to expand its operations in different regions and otherwise achieve its objectives relating to its foreign operations, including utilizing these locations as suppliers to other markets. In addition, compliance with multiple and potentially conflicting foreign laws and regulations, import and export limitations and exchange controls is burdensome and expensive. For example, the Company could be adversely affected by violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\") and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws as well as export controls and economic sanction laws. The FCPA and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials and, in some cases, other persons, for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in civil and criminal fines, penalties and sanctions against the Company, its officers or its employees, prohibitions on the conduct of the Company's business and on its ability to offer products and services in one or more countries, and could also harm the Company's reputation, business and results of operations. The Company's foreign operations also subject it to the risks of international terrorism and hostilities and to foreign currency risks, including exchange rate fluctuations and limits on the repatriation of funds.  See also related comments under \"The Company's results could be. -. 8. -. Table of Contents. impacted by changes in tariffs, trade agreements or other trade restrictions imposed by the U.S. or other governments on imported tires or raw materials.\". The results of the United Kingdom's referendum on withdrawal from the European Union may have a negative effect on global economic conditions, financial markets or the Company's business.. In June 2016, a majority of voters in the United Kingdom elected to withdraw from the European Union in a national referendum. The terms of the withdrawal are subject to a negotiation period that could last until or beyond March 2019, two years after the government of the United Kingdom formally initiated the withdrawal process. Nevertheless, the referendum has created significant uncertainty about the future relationship between the United Kingdom and the European Union, including with respect to the laws and regulations that will apply as the United Kingdom determines which European Union laws to replace or replicate as part of the withdrawal. The referendum has also given rise to calls for the governments of other European Union member states to consider withdrawal.. These developments, or the perception that any of them could occur, have had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on global economic conditions and the stability of global financial markets, including volatility in the value of the British pound sterling and Euro. These developments may also significantly reduce global market liquidity or restrict the ability of key market participants to operate in certain financial markets. The effects of the United Kingdom's withdrawal from the European Union will also depend on terms of new trade agreements between the United Kingdom and other countries, as well as any other agreements the United Kingdom makes to retain access to European Union markets either during a transitional period or more permanently. Any of these factors could depress economic activity and restrict the Company's access to capital, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. These developments may also have other direct or indirect effects which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. Compliance with legal and regulatory initiatives could increase the cost of operating the Company's business.. The Company is subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations. Compliance with those laws now in effect, or that may be enacted, could require significant capital expenditures, increase the Company's production costs and affect its earnings and results of operations. Periodic changes as the result of elections in the U.S. and worldwide make it difficult to predict the legislative and regulatory changes that may occur.. Several countries have or may implement labeling requirements for tires. This legislation could cause the Company's products to be at a disadvantage in the marketplace resulting in a loss of market share or could otherwise impact the Company's ability to distribute and sell its tires.. In addition, while the Company believes that its tires are free from design and manufacturing defects and comply with all applicable regulations and standards, it is possible that a recall of the Company's tires could occur in the future. A recall could harm the Company's reputation, operating results and financial position.. The Company is also subject to legislation governing labor, environmental, privacy and data protection, occupational safety and health both in the U.S. and other countries. The related legislation can change over time making it more expensive for the Company to produce its products.. The Company could also, despite its best efforts to comply with these laws and regulations, be found liable and be subject to additional costs because of these laws and regulations.. The Company may fail to successfully develop or implement information technologies or related systems, resulting in a significant competitive disadvantage.. Successfully competing in the highly competitive tire industry can be impacted by the successful development of information technology. If the Company fails to successfully develop or implement information technology systems, it may be at a disadvantage to its competitors resulting in lost sales and negative impacts on the Company's earnings.. The Company has implemented an Enterprise Resource Planning system in the United States.  The Company is evaluating its available options for information technology solutions outside of the United States, which will require significant amounts of capital and human resources to deploy. These requirements may exceed the Company's projections. If for any reason these implementations are not successful, the Company could be required to expense rather than capitalize related amounts. Throughout implementation of the systems, there are also risks created to the Company's ability to successfully and efficiently operate.. -. 9. -. Table of Contents. The Company's expenditures for pension and other postretirement obligations could be materially higher than it has predicted if its underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect.. The Company provides defined benefit and hybrid pension plan coverage to union and non-union U.S. employees and a contributory defined benefit plan in the U.K. The Company's pension expense and its required contributions to its pension plans are directly affected by the value of plan assets, the projected and actual rates of return on plan assets and the actuarial assumptions the Company uses to measure its defined benefit pension plan obligations, including the discount rate at which future projected and accumulated pension obligations are discounted to a present value and the inflation rate. The Company could experience increased pension expense due to a combination of factors, including the decreased investment performance of its pension plan assets, decreases in the discount rate, changes in its assumptions relating to the expected return on plan assets, updates to mortality tables and the impact of changes to the Company's pension strategy. The Company could also experience increased other postretirement expense due to decreases in the discount rate, increases in the health care trend rate and changes in the health care environment.. In the event of declines in the market value of the Company's pension assets or lower discount rates to measure the present value of pension and other postretirement benefit obligations, the Company could experience changes to its Consolidated Balance Sheet or significant cash requirements.. The Company has a risk due to volatility of the capital and financial markets.. The Company periodically requires access to the capital and financial markets as a significant source of liquidity for maturing debt payments or working capital needs that it cannot satisfy by cash on hand or operating cash flows. Substantial volatility in world capital markets and the banking industry may make it difficult for the Company to access credit markets and to obtain financing or refinancing, as the case may be, on satisfactory terms or at all. In addition, various additional factors, including a deterioration of the Company's credit ratings or its business or financial condition, could further impair its access to the capital markets and bank financings. Additionally, any inability to access the capital markets or bank financings, including the ability to refinance existing debt when due, could require the Company to defer critical capital expenditures, reduce or not pay dividends, reduce spending in areas of strategic importance, sell important assets or, in extreme cases, seek protection from creditors. See also related comments under \"There are risks associated with the Company's global strategy, which includes using joint ventures and partially-owned subsidiaries.\". The Company's operations in the PRC have been financed in part using multiple loans from several lenders to finance working capital needs. These loans are generally for terms of one year or less. Therefore, debt maturities occur frequently and access to the capital markets and bank financings is crucial to the Company's ability to maintain sufficient liquidity to support its operations in the PRC.. If assumptions used in developing the Company's strategic plan are inaccurate or the Company is unable to execute its strategic plan effectively, its profitability and financial position could be negatively impacted.. The Company faces both general industry and company-specific challenges. These include volatile raw material costs, increasing product complexity and pressure from competitors with greater resources or manufacturing in lower-cost regions. To address these challenges and position the Company for future success, the Company continues to execute towards strategic imperatives outlined in its Strategic Plan. The three strategic imperatives are building a sustainable cost competitive position, driving top-line profitable growth and building organizational capabilities and enablers to support strategic goals.. The Company continually reviews and updates its business plans to achieve these imperatives. If the assumptions used in developing the Company's business plans vary significantly from actual conditions, the Company's sales, margins and profitability could be harmed. If the Company is unsuccessful in implementing the tactics necessary to execute its business plans, it may not be able to achieve or sustain future profitability, which could impair its ability to meet debt and other obligations and could otherwise negatively affect its operating results, financial condition and liquidity.. There are risks associated with the Company's global strategy, which includes using joint ventures and partially-owned subsidiaries.. The Company's strategy includes the use of joint ventures and other partially-owned subsidiaries. These entities operate in countries outside of the U.S., are generally less well capitalized than the Company and bear risks similar to the risks of the Company. In addition, there are specific risks applicable to these subsidiaries and these risks, in turn, add potential risks to the Company. Such risks include greater risk of joint venture partners or other investors failing to meet their obligations under related stockholders' agreements; conflicts with joint venture partners; the possibility of a joint venture partner taking valuable knowledge from the Company; and risk of being denied access to the capital markets, which could lead to resource demands on the Company in order to maintain or advance its strategy. The Company's outstanding notes and primary credit facility contain cross default provisions in the event of certain defaults by the Company under other agreements with third parties. For further. -. 10. -. Table of Contents. discussion of access to the capital markets, see also related comments under \"The Company has a risk due to volatility of the capital and financial markets.\". The Company may not be successful in executing and integrating acquisitions into its operations, which could harm its results of operations and financial condition.. The Company routinely evaluates potential acquisitions, such as the purchase of a majority interest in GRT, and may pursue additional acquisition opportunities, some of which could be material to its business. The Company cannot provide assurance whether it will be successful in pursuing and integrating any acquisition opportunities or what the consequences of any acquisition would be. The Company may encounter various risks in any acquisitions, including:. • the possible inability to integrate an acquired business into its operations;. • diversion of management's attention;. • loss of key management personnel;. • unanticipated problems or liabilities; and. • increased labor and regulatory compliance costs of acquired businesses.. Some or all of those risks could impair the Company's results of operations and impact its financial condition. The Company may finance any future acquisitions from internally generated funds, bank borrowings, public offerings or private placements of equity or debt securities, or a combination of the foregoing. Acquisitions may involve the expenditure of significant funds and management time.. Acquisitions may also require the Company to increase its borrowings under its bank credit facilities or other debt instruments, or to seek new sources of liquidity. Increased borrowings would correspondingly increase the Company's financial leverage, and could result in lower credit ratings and increased future borrowing costs. These risks could also reduce the Company's flexibility to respond to changes in its industry or in general economic conditions.. In addition, the Company's business plans call for growth. If the Company is unable to identify or execute on appropriate opportunities for acquisition, investment or growth, its business could be materially adversely affected.. If the price of energy sources increases, the Company's operating expenses could increase significantly or the demand for the Company's products could be affected.. The Company's manufacturing facilities rely principally on natural gas, as well as electrical power and other energy sources. High demand and limited availability of natural gas and other energy sources can result in significant increases in energy costs increasing the Company's operating expenses and transportation costs. Higher energy costs would increase the Company's production costs and adversely affect its margins and results of operations. If the Company is unable to obtain adequate sources of energy, its operations could be interrupted.. In addition, if the price of gasoline increases significantly for consumers, it can affect driving and purchasing habits and impact demand for tires.. The Company has and could in the future incur restructuring charges as it continues to execute actions in an effort to improve future profitability and competitiveness and may not achieve the anticipated savings and benefits from these actions.. The Company has and may in the future initiate restructuring actions designed to improve future profitability and competitiveness, and enhance the Company's flexibility. The Company may not realize anticipated savings or benefits from future actions in full or in part or within the time periods it expects. The Company is also subject to the risks of labor unrest, negative publicity and business disruption in connection with these actions. Failure to realize anticipated savings or benefits from the Company's actions could have an adverse effect on the business. Such restructuring actions could have a significant negative impact on the Company's earnings or cash flows in the short-term.. The realizability of deferred tax assets may affect the Company's profitability and cash flows.. The Company has significant net deferred tax assets recorded on the balance sheet and determines at each reporting period whether or not a valuation allowance is necessary based upon the expected realizability of such deferred tax assets. In the U.S., the Company has recorded deferred tax assets, the largest of which relate to product liability, pension and other postretirement benefit obligations, partially offset by deferred tax liabilities, the most significant of which relates to accelerated depreciation. The Company's non-U.S. deferred tax assets relate to pension, accrued expenses and net operating losses, and are partially offset by deferred tax liabilities related to accelerated depreciation. Based upon the Company's assessment of the realizability of its net deferred tax assets, the Company maintains a valuation allowance in the U.K., as well as a small valuation allowance. -. 11. -. Table of Contents. for the portion of its U.S. deferred tax assets primarily associated with a loss carryforward. In addition, the Company has recorded valuation allowances for deferred tax assets primarily associated with other non-U.S. net operating losses.. The Company's assessment of the realizability of deferred tax assets is based in part on certain assumptions regarding future profitability, and potentially adverse business conditions could have a negative impact on the future realizability of the deferred tax assets and therefore impact the Company's future operating results or financial position.. Compliance with and changes in tax laws, including recently enacted tax reform legislation in the United States, could materially and adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We are subject to extensive tax liabilities, including federal and state income taxes and transactional taxes such as excise, sales and use, payroll, franchise, withholding and property taxes. New tax laws and regulations and changes in existing tax laws and regulations could result in increased expenditures by us for tax liabilities in the future and could materially and adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Recently enacted tax reform legislation has made substantial changes to U.S. tax law, including a reduction in the corporate tax rate, a limitation on deductibility of interest expense, a limitation on the use of net operating losses to offset future taxable income, the allowance of immediate expensing of capital expenditures and deemed repatriation of foreign earnings. We expect this legislation to have significant effects on us, some of which may be adverse. For example, the reduction in the corporate tax rate is resulted in a reduction in the value of our existing deferred tax assets, and consequently a charge to our earnings in 2017. The magnitude of the net impact remains uncertain at this time and is subject to any other regulatory or administrative developments, including any regulations or other guidance promulgated by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service.. Additionally, the Company's income tax returns are subject to examination by federal, state and local tax authorities in the U.S. and tax authorities outside the U.S. Based upon the outcome of tax examinations, judicial proceedings, or expiration of statutes of limitations, it is possible that the ultimate resolution of these unrecognized tax benefits may result in a payment that is materially different from the current estimate of the tax liabilities. Such factors could have an adverse effect on the Company's provision for income taxes and the cash outlays required to satisfy income tax obligations.. The Company is required to comply with environmental laws and regulations that could cause it to incur significant costs.. The Company's manufacturing facilities are subject to numerous federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations designed to protect the environment, including increased government regulations to limit carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions as a result of concern over climate change, and the Company expects that additional requirements with respect to environmental matters will be imposed on it in the future. In addition, the Company has contractual indemnification obligations for environmental remediation costs and liabilities that may arise relating to certain divested operations. Material future expenditures may be necessary if compliance standards change, if material unknown conditions that require remediation are discovered, or if required remediation of known conditions becomes more extensive than expected. If the Company fails to comply with present and future environmental laws and regulations, it could be subject to future liabilities or the suspension of production, which could harm its business or results of operations. Environmental laws could also restrict the Company's ability to expand its facilities or could require it to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses in connection with its manufacturing processes.. The Company has been and may continue to be impacted by currency fluctuations, which may reduce reported results for the Company's international operations and otherwise adversely affect the business.. Because the Company conducts transactions in various non-U.S. currencies, including the Euro, Canadian dollar, British pound sterling, Swiss franc, Swedish kronar, Norwegian krone, Mexican peso, Chinese yuan, Serbian dinar and Brazilian real, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may impact the Company's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, despite currency hedging actions by the Company. The Company's operating results are subject to the effects of fluctuations in the value of these currencies and fluctuations in the related currency exchange rates. As a result, the Company's sales have historically been affected by, and may continue to be affected by, these fluctuations. Exchange rate movements between currencies in which the Company sells its products have been affected by and may continue to result in exchange losses that could materially affect results. During times of strength of the U.S. dollar, the reported revenues of the Company's international operations will be reduced because local currencies will translate into fewer dollars. In addition, a strong U.S. dollar may increase the competitiveness of competitors based outside of the United States. As a result, continued strengthening of the U.S. dollar may have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The Company may not be able to protect its intellectual property rights adequately.. The Company's success depends in part upon its ability to use and protect its proprietary technology and other intellectual property, which generally covers various aspects in the design and manufacture of its products and processes. The Company. -. 12. -. Table of Contents. owns and uses tradenames and trademarks worldwide. The Company relies upon a combination of trade secrets, confidentiality policies, nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements and patent, copyright and trademark laws to protect its intellectual property rights. The steps the Company takes in this regard may not be adequate to prevent or deter challenges, reverse engineering or infringement or other violations of its intellectual property, and the Company may not be able to detect unauthorized use or take appropriate and timely steps to enforce its intellectual property rights.. In addition, the laws of some countries may not protect and enforce the Company's intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. Further, while the Company believes it has rights to use all intellectual property in the Company's use, if the Company is found to infringe on the rights of others it could be adversely impacted.. The impact of proposed new accounting standards may have a negative impact on the Company's financial statements.. The Financial Accounting Standards Board is considering or has issued for future adoption several projects which may result in the modification of accounting standards affecting the Company, including standards relating to revenue recognition, financial instruments, leasing and others. Any such changes could have a negative impact on the Company's financial statements.. The Company is facing risks relating to healthcare legislation.. The Company is facing risks emanating from legislation in the U.S., including the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the related Healthcare and Education Reconciliation Act, which are collectively referred to as healthcare legislation. The future of this major legislation and any replacement is now in question and the ultimate cost and the potentially adverse impact to the Company and its employees cannot be quantified at this time."
