[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS.. As the owner and operator of correctional, detention, and residential reentry facilities, we are subject to certain risks and uncertainties associated with, among other things, the corrections and detention industry and pending or threatened litigation in which we are involved.  In addition, we are also currently subject to risks associated with our indebtedness as well as our qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes effective for our taxable years beginning January 1, 2013.  The risks and uncertainties set forth below could cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements contained herein and elsewhere.  The risks described below are not the only risks we face.  Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or those we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business operations.  Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. 27. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. Our results of operations are dependent on revenues generated by our correctional, detention, and residential reentry facilities, which are subject to the following risks associated with the corrections and detention industry.. We are subject to fluctuations in occupancy levels, and a decrease in occupancy levels could cause a decrease in revenues and profitability.  While a substantial portion of our cost structure is fixed, a substantial portion of our revenue is generated under facility ownership and management contracts that specify per diem payments based upon daily occupancy. We are dependent upon the governmental agencies with which we have contracts to provide offenders for facilities we operate. We cannot control occupancy levels at the facilities we operate. Under a per diem rate structure, a decrease in our occupancy rates could cause a decrease in revenue and profitability. For the years 2017, 2016, and 2015, the average compensated occupancy of our facilities, based on rated capacity, was 80%, 79%, and 83%, respectively, for all of the facilities we operated, exclusive of facilities that are leased to third-party operators where our revenue is generally not based on daily occupancy. Occupancy rates may, however, decrease below these levels in the future. When combined with relatively fixed costs for operating each facility, a decrease in occupancy levels could have a material adverse effect on our profitability.. We are dependent on government appropriations, and our results of operations may be negatively affected by governmental budgetary challenges.  Our cash flow is subject to the receipt of sufficient funding of, and timely payment by, contracting governmental entities. If the appropriate governmental agency does not receive sufficient appropriations to cover its contractual obligations, it may terminate our contract or delay or reduce payment to us. Any delays in payment, or the termination of a contract, could have an adverse effect on our cash flow and financial condition. In addition, federal, state and local governments are constantly under pressure to control additional spending or reduce current levels of spending. In prior years, these pressures have been compounded by economic downturns. Accordingly, we have been requested and may be requested in the future to reduce our existing per diem contract rates or forego prospective increases to those rates. Further, our government partners could reduce offender population levels in facilities we own or manage to contain their correctional costs. In addition, it may become more difficult to renew our existing contracts on favorable terms or otherwise.. Competition may adversely affect the profitability of our business.  We compete with government entities and other private operators on the basis of bed availability, cost, quality and range of services offered, experience in designing, constructing, and managing facilities, and reputation of management and personnel. While there are barriers to entering the market for the ownership and management of correctional, detention, and residential reentry facilities, these barriers may not be sufficient to limit additional competition. In addition, our government customers may assume the management of a facility that they own and we currently manage for them upon the termination of the corresponding management contract or, if such customers have capacity at their facilities, may take offenders and residents currently housed in our facilities and transfer them to government-run facilities. Since we are paid on a per diem basis with no minimum guaranteed occupancy under most of our contracts, the loss of such offenders and residents, and the resulting decrease in occupancy, would cause a decrease in our revenues and profitability.. 28. Resistance to privatization of correctional and detention facilities, and negative publicity regarding inmate disturbances or perceived poor operational performance, could result in our inability to obtain new contracts, the loss of existing contracts, or other unforeseen consequences.  Privatization of correctional and detention facilities has not achieved complete acceptance by either governments or the public. The operation of correctional and detention facilities by private entities has encountered resistance from certain groups, such as labor unions and others, that believe that correctional and detention facilities should only be operated by governmental agencies. In the past, legislation has been proposed in the United States Congress to prohibit the federal government from entering into contracts with private prison operators and to eliminate state and local contracts for privately run prisons. Further, in September 2017, another bill was introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives that could affect private immigrant detention facilities. If enacted as written, the Dignity for Detained Immigrants Act would, from the day of its enactment, prohibit the Department of Homeland Security from entering into or extending any contract with a private company for an immigrant detention facility. It would also be required to terminate any such contract it had within three years of the law's passage. While this would impact only our contracts with ICE and would not impact our contracts with BOP or USMS, such legislation runs contrary to our primary business purpose and, if passed, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Moreover, the belief or market perception that such legislation could be passed could have a negative impact on our stock price.. Further, negative publicity regarding an escape, riot or other disturbance or perceived poor operational performance, contract compliance, or other conditions at a privately managed facility may result in adverse publicity to us and the private corrections industry in general. Any of these occurrences or continued trends may make it more difficult for us to renew or maintain existing contracts or to obtain new contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We are subject to terminations, non-renewals, or competitive re-bids of our government contracts.  We typically enter into facility contracts with governmental entities for terms of up to five years, with additional renewal periods at the option of the contracting governmental agency.  Notwithstanding any contractual renewal option of a contracting governmental agency, as of December 31, 2017, 43 of our facility contracts with the customers listed under \"Business  -  Facility Portfolio  -  Facilities and Facility Management Contracts\" are currently scheduled to expire on or before December 31, 2018 but have renewal options (25), or are currently scheduled to expire on or before December 31, 2018 and have no renewal options (18).  Although we generally expect these customers to exercise renewal options or negotiate new contracts with us, one or more of these contracts may not be renewed by the corresponding governmental agency. In addition, these and any other contracting agencies may determine not to exercise renewal options with respect to any of our contracts in the future. Our government partners can also re-bid contracts in a competitive procurement process upon termination or non-renewal of our contract.  Competitive re-bids may result from the expiration of the term of a contract, including the initial term and any renewal periods, or the early termination of a contract. Competitive re-bids are often required by applicable federal or state procurement laws periodically in order to further competitive pricing and other terms for the government agency. The aggregate revenue earned during the year ended December 31, 2017 for the 43 contracts with scheduled maturity dates, notwithstanding contractual renewal options, on or before December 31, 2018 was $640.4 million, or 36% of total revenue.. Based on information available as of the date of this filing, we believe we will renew all material contracts that have expired or are scheduled to expire within the next twelve months.  We believe our renewal rate on existing contracts remains high due to a variety of reasons including, but not limited to, the constrained supply of available beds within the U.S. correctional system, our ownership of the majority of the beds we operate, and the cost effectiveness of the services we provide.  However, we cannot assure we will continue to achieve such renewal rates in the future.. Governmental agencies typically may terminate a facility contract at any time without cause or use the possibility of termination to negotiate a lower per diem rate. In the event any of our contracts are terminated or are not renewed on favorable terms or otherwise, we may not be able to obtain additional replacement contracts. The non-renewal, termination, renegotiation or competitive re-bid of any of our contracts with governmental agencies could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity, including our ability to secure new facility contracts from others.. 29. Our ability to secure new contracts to develop and manage correctional, detention, and residential reentry facilities depends on many factors outside our control.  Our growth is generally dependent upon our ability to obtain new contracts to develop and manage correctional, detention, and residential reentry facilities. This possible growth depends on a number of factors we cannot control, including crime rates and sentencing patterns in various jurisdictions, governmental budgetary constraints, and governmental and public acceptance of privatization. The demand for our facilities and services could be adversely affected by the relaxation of enforcement efforts, the expansion of alternatives to incarceration and detention, leniency in conviction or parole standards and sentencing practices or through the decriminalization of certain activities that are currently proscribed by criminal laws. For instance, any changes with respect to drugs and controlled substances or illegal immigration could affect the number of persons arrested, convicted, and sentenced, thereby potentially reducing demand for correctional or detention facilities to house them. Immigration reform laws are currently a focus for legislators and politicians at the federal, state, and local level. Legislation has also been proposed in numerous jurisdictions that could lower minimum sentences for some non-violent crimes and make more inmates eligible for early release based on good behavior. Also, the expansion of alternatives to incarceration and detention, such as electronic monitoring, may reduce the number of offenders who would otherwise be incarcerated or detained. Similarly, reductions in crime rates or resources dedicated to prevent and enforce crime could lead to reductions in arrests, convictions and sentences requiring incarceration at correctional facilities. Our company does not, under longstanding policy, lobby for or against policies or legislation that would determine the basis for, or duration of, an individual's incarceration or detention.. Moreover, certain jurisdictions recently have required successful bidders to make a significant capital investment in connection with the financing of a particular project, a trend that will require us to have sufficient capital resources to compete effectively. We may compete for such projects with companies that have more financial resources than we have. Further, we may not be able to obtain the capital resources when needed. A prolonged downturn in the financial capital markets or in our stock price could make it more difficult to obtain capital resources at favorable rates of return or obtain capital resources at all.. We may face community opposition to facility location, which may adversely affect our ability to obtain new contracts.  Our success in obtaining new awards and contracts sometimes depends, in part, upon our ability to locate land that can be leased or acquired, on economically favorable terms, by us or other entities working with us in conjunction with our proposal to construct and/or manage a facility. Some locations may be in or near populous areas and, therefore, may generate legal action or other forms of opposition from residents in areas surrounding a proposed site. When selecting project sites, we attempt to conduct business in communities where local leaders and residents generally support the establishment of a privatized correctional, detention, or residential reentry facility. Future efforts to find suitable host communities may not be successful. We may incur substantial costs in evaluating the feasibility of the development of a correctional or detention facility. As a result, we may report significant charges if we decide to abandon efforts to develop a correctional or detention facility on a particular site. In many cases, the site selection is made by the contracting governmental entity. In such cases, site selection may be made for reasons related to political and/or economic development interests and may lead to the selection of sites that have less favorable environments.. Providing family residential services increases certain unique risks and difficulties compared to operating our other facilities.  In September 2014, we signed an amended agreement to provide safe and humane residential housing, as well as educational opportunities, to women and children under the custody of ICE, who are awaiting their due process before immigration courts. In October 2016, we entered into an amended agreement that extended the term of the 2014 agreement through September 2021. This is an important service to our federal government partner. At the same time, providing this type of residential service subjects us to unique risks such as unanticipated increased costs and litigation that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. For example, the contract mandates resident-to-staff ratios that are higher than our typical contract, requires services unique to this contract (e.g. child care and primary education services), and limits the use of security protocols and techniques typically utilized in correctional and detention settings. These operational risks and others associated with privately managing this type of residential facility could result in higher costs associated with staffing and lead to increased litigation.. Numerous lawsuits, to which we are not a party, have challenged the government's policy of detaining migrant families, and government policies with respect to family immigration may impact the demand for the South Texas. 30. Family Residential Center.  Any court decision or government action that impacts our existing contract for the South Texas Family Residential Center could materially affect our cash flows, financial condition, and results of operations.. We may incur significant start-up and operating costs on new contracts before receiving related revenues, which may impact our cash flows and not be recouped.  When we are awarded a contract to provide or manage a facility, we may incur significant start-up and operating expenses, including the cost of constructing the facility, purchasing equipment and staffing the facility, before we receive any payments under the contract. These expenditures could result in a significant reduction in our cash reserves and may make it more difficult for us to meet other cash obligations. In addition, a contract may be terminated prior to its scheduled expiration and as a result we may not recover these expenditures or realize any return on our investment.. Government agencies may investigate and audit our contracts and operational performance, and if any deficiencies or improprieties are found, we may be required to cure those deficiencies or improprieties, refund revenues we have received, or forego anticipated revenues, and we may be subject to penalties and sanctions, including contract termination and prohibitions on our bidding in response to RFPs.  Certain of the governmental agencies with which we contract have the authority to audit and investigate our contracts with them. As part of that process, government agencies may review our performance of the contract, our pricing practices, our cost structure and our compliance with applicable performance requirements, laws, regulations and standards. The regulatory and contractual environment in which we operate is complex and many aspects of our operations remain subject to manual processes and oversight that make compliance monitoring difficult and resource intensive. A governmental agency audit, review or investigation could result in a request to cure a performance or compliance issue, and if we are unable to or otherwise fail to do so, the failure could lead to the imposition of monetary penalties or revenue deductions, or the termination of the contract in question or other contracts that we have with that governmental agency. Similarly, for contracts that actually or effectively provide for certain reimbursement of expenses, if an agency determines that we have improperly allocated costs to a specific contract, we may not be reimbursed for those costs, and we could be required to refund the amount of any such costs that have been reimbursed. If a government audit asserts improper or illegal activities by us, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeitures of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or disqualification from doing business with certain government entities. In addition to the potential civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, any adverse determination with respect to contractual or regulatory violations could negatively impact our ability to bid in response to RFPs in one or more jurisdictions.. Failure to comply with facility contracts or with unique and increased governmental regulation could result in material penalties or non-renewal or termination of noncompliant contracts or our other contracts to provide or manage correctional, detention, and residential reentry facilities.  The industry in which we operate is subject to extensive federal, state, and local regulations, including educational, health care, and safety regulations, which are administered by many regulatory authorities.  Some of the regulations are unique to the corrections industry, some are unique to government contractors, and the combination of regulations we face is unique and complex.  Facility contracts typically include reporting requirements, supervision, and on-site monitoring by representatives of the contracting governmental agencies.  Corrections officers are customarily required to meet certain training standards and, in some instances, facility personnel are required to be licensed and subject to background investigation.  Certain jurisdictions also require us to award subcontracts on a competitive basis or to subcontract with certain types of businesses, such as small businesses and businesses owned by members of minority groups.  Our facilities are also subject to operational and financial audits by the governmental agencies with which we have contracts.  Federal regulations also require federal government contractors like us to self-report evidence of certain forms of misconduct.  We may not always successfully comply with these regulations and contract requirements, and failure to comply can result in material penalties, including financial penalties, non-renewal or termination of noncompliant contracts or our other facility contracts, and suspension or debarment from contracting with certain government entities.. In addition, private prison managers are subject to government legislation and regulation attempting to restrict the ability of private prison managers to house certain types of inmates, such as inmates from other jurisdictions or inmates at medium or higher security levels.  Legislation has been enacted in several states, and has previously been proposed in the United States Congress, containing such restrictions.  Such legislation may have an adverse effect on us.. 31. Our inmate transportation subsidiary, TransCor, is subject to regulations promulgated by the Departments of Transportation and Justice.  TransCor must also comply with the Interstate Transportation of Dangerous Criminals Act of 2000, which covers operational aspects of transporting prisoners, including, but not limited to, background checks and drug testing of employees; employee training; employee hours; staff-to-inmate ratios; prisoner restraints; communication with local law enforcement; and standards to help ensure the safety of prisoners during transport. We are subject to changes in such regulations, which could result in an increase in the cost of our transportation operations.. On June 13, 2017, the US Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, or the Court, struck down large portions of a late 2016 Order, or the Order, from the Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, which regulates telecommunications. The Order had set numerous rate caps on interstate and intrastate calling services, or ICS, and applied directly to ICS providers that offer their services pursuant to contracts with correctional facilities, including those that we manage. The Court found that the FCC lacked authority to regulate intrastate ICS rates.  The Court also found that the FCC had neglected critical factors in calculating interstate rate caps, remanding the interstate rate proceeding back to the FCC for reconsideration.  As a result of the Court's decision, an earlier FCC order setting interstate rate caps remains in effect.. Because it is unclear what, if any, further rate capping action the FCC may take with respect to interstate ICS rates, the financial impact cannot be anticipated at this time.  The impact to our revenue is limited because a significant amount of commissions paid by our ICS providers is passed along to our customers or is reserved and used for the benefit of offenders in our care.. In previous notices, the FCC sought comment on various topics, including the development of international ICS rate caps; the potential regulation of rates associated with technology based ICS alternatives, such as videoconferencing; and whether additional reforms are necessary for effective regulation of revenue sharing agreements.  All of these reforms, if pursued, could impact revenue to correctional facility operators, both public and private, but the most recent decision by the Court appears to limit FCC jurisdiction in some of these areas.  For this reason, it remains unclear whether the FCC will undertake further regulatory activity in these fields.. We depend on a limited number of governmental customers for a significant portion of our revenues.  We currently derive, and expect to continue to derive, a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of governmental agencies. The loss of, or a significant decrease in, business from the BOP, ICE, USMS, or various state agencies could seriously harm our financial condition and results of operations. The three primary federal governmental agencies with correctional and detention responsibilities, the BOP, ICE, and USMS, accounted for 48% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017 ($839.1 million). ICE accounted for 25% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017 ($444.1 million), USMS accounted for 16% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017 ($277.4 million), and BOP accounted for 7% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017 ($117.6 million). Although the revenue generated from each of these agencies is derived from numerous management contracts, the loss or substantial reduction in value of one or more of such contracts could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We expect to continue to depend upon these federal agencies and a relatively small group of other governmental customers for a significant percentage of our revenues.. In a memorandum to the BOP dated August 18, 2016, the DOJ directed that, as each contract with privately operated prisons reaches the end of its term, the BOP should either decline to renew that contract or substantially reduce its scope in a manner consistent with law and the overall decline of the BOP's inmate population.  On February 21, 2017, the newly appointed U.S. Attorney General issued a memorandum rescinding the DOJ's prior directive stating the August 18, 2016 memorandum changed long-standing policy and practice and impaired the BOP's ability to meet the future needs of the federal correctional system.. Revenue from our South Texas Family Residential Center was $170.6 million in 2017 and $267.3 million in 2016, reflecting the aforementioned amendment executed in October 2016 as discussed under Item 1, \"Business - Business Development\".  The loss or further reduction in value of this contract would have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.  See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Results of Operations\" for a further discussion regarding our contract at the. 32. South Texas Family Residential Center and the reduction in revenue in 2017 that resulted from the amendment to this contract.. Approximately 6% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017 ($104.1 million) was generated from the CDCR in facilities housing inmates outside the state of California, a decrease from $113.4 million, or 6%, of our total revenues in 2016, and $170.5 million, or 10% of our total revenues in 2015.  Our management agreement with the CDCR, as well as the status of legal and legislative action contributing to the reduction in the state of California inmate populations, are more fully described hereafter in \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Results of Operations\".. During the first quarter of 2015, the adult inmate population held in state of California institutions under custody of the CDCR first met a Federal court order to reduce inmate populations below 137.5% of the State's capacity.  Inmate populations in the state continued to decline below the court ordered capacity limit which has resulted in declining inmate populations in the out-of-state program at facilities we own and operate.  As of December 31, 2017, the adult inmate population held in state of California institutions remained in compliance with the Federal court order at approximately 134.6% of capacity, or approximately 114,500 inmates, which did not include the California inmates held in our out-of-state facilities, compared with 114,000 inmates at December 31, 2016.. On January 10, 2018, the Governor of California issued a proposed budget for fiscal 2018-2019.  The proposed budget contemplates that the continued implementation of initiatives to reduce prison populations will allow the CDCR to eliminate the use of out-of-state contract beds.  Current estimates include the removal of all inmates from one of our two out-of-state facilities by the end of fiscal 2017-2018.  As the impact of the initiatives grows, the CDCR anticipates the removal of inmates from our other out-of-state facility by fall 2019.  Although the proposed budget acknowledges that estimates of population reductions are subject to considerable uncertainty, the complete removal by the CDCR of all inmates from our out-of-state facilities could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. We may not be able to successfully identify, consummate or integrate acquisitions.. We have an active acquisition program, the objective of which is to identify suitable acquisition targets that will enhance our growth and diversify our cash flows. The pursuit of acquisitions may pose certain risks to us. We may not be able to identify acquisition candidates that fit our criteria for growth, profitability and diversification strategy. Even if we are able to identify such candidates, we may not be able to acquire them on terms satisfactory to us. We will incur expenses and dedicate attention and resources associated with the review and pursuit of acquisition opportunities, whether or not we consummate such acquisitions.. Additionally, even if we are able to identify and acquire suitable targets on agreeable terms, we may not be able to successfully integrate their operations with ours. Achieving the anticipated benefits of any acquisition will depend in significant part upon whether we integrate such acquired businesses in an efficient and effective manner. We may not be able to achieve the anticipated operating and cost synergies or long-term strategic benefits of our acquisitions within the anticipated timing, or at all. We may also assume liabilities in connection with acquisitions to which we would otherwise not be exposed. An inability to realize the full extent of, or any of, the anticipated synergies or other benefits of an acquisition, as well as any delays that may be encountered in the integration process, which may delay the timing of such synergies or other benefits, could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. As a result of our acquisitions, we have recorded and will continue to record a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets. In the future, our goodwill or other intangible assets may become impaired, which could result in material non-cash charges to our results of operations.. We have a substantial amount of goodwill and other intangible assets resulting from business acquisitions. As of December 31, 2017, we had $40.9 million of goodwill and other intangible assets. At least annually, or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential impairment in the carrying value as defined by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, we will evaluate this goodwill for impairment by first assessing qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than the carrying amount. Estimated fair values could change. 33. if there are changes in our capital structure, cost of debt, interest rates, capital expenditure levels, operating cash flows, or market capitalization. Impairments of goodwill or other intangible assets could require material non-cash charges to our results of operations.. We are dependent upon our senior management and our ability to attract and retain sufficient qualified personnel.. The success of our business depends in large part on the ability and experience of our senior management.  The unexpected loss of any of these persons could materially adversely affect our business and operations.. In addition, the services we provide are labor-intensive. The success of our business, and our ability to satisfy the staffing and operational performance requirements of our contracts, require that we attract, hire, develop and retain sufficient qualified personnel.  When we are awarded a facility management contract or open a new facility, we must hire operating management, correctional officers, and other personnel. Our inability to hire sufficient qualified personnel on a timely basis, or experiencing excessive turnover or the loss of significant personnel at existing facilities, could adversely affect our business and operations. Many of our contracts include specific staffing requirements, and our failure to satisfy such requirements may result in the imposition of financial penalties.. Legal proceedings related to, and adverse developments in our relationship with, our employees could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We and our subsidiaries are party to a variety of claims and legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business, including but not limited to claims and legal proceedings related to employment matters.  Because the resolution of claims and legal proceedings is inherently uncertain, there can be no assurance we will be successful in defending against such claims or legal proceedings, or that management's assessment of the materiality of these matters, including the reserves taken in connection therewith, will be consistent with the ultimate outcome of such claims or legal proceedings.  In the event management's assessment of materiality of current claims and legal proceedings proves inaccurate or litigation that is material arises in the future, the resolution of such matters may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. As of December 31, 2017, we employed 12,875 full- and part-time employees.  Approximately 810 of our employees at three of our facilities, or approximately 6% of our workforce, are represented by labor unions.  We have not experienced a strike or work stoppage at any of our facilities and, in the opinion of management, overall employee relations are good. New executive orders, administrative rules and changes in National Labor Relations could increase organizing activity at locations where employees are currently not represented by a labor organization. Increases in organizational activity or any future work stoppages could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. We are subject to necessary insurance costs.. Workers' compensation, auto liability, employee health, and general liability insurance represent significant costs to us. Because we are significantly self-insured for workers' compensation, auto liability, employee health, and general liability risks, the amount of our insurance expense is dependent on claims experience, our ability to control our claims experience, and in the case of workers' compensation and employee health, rising health care costs in general. Unanticipated additional insurance costs could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows, and the failure to obtain or maintain any necessary insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on us.. We may be adversely affected by inflation.. Many of our facility contracts provide for fixed fees or fees that increase by only small amounts during their terms. If, due to inflation or other causes, our operating expenses, such as wages and salaries of our employees, insurance, medical, and food costs, increase at rates faster than increases, if any, in our revenues, then our profitability would be adversely affected.  See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Inflation.\". 34. We are subject to legal proceedings associated with owning and managing correctional, detention, and residential reentry facilities.. Our ownership and management of correctional, detention, and residential reentry facilities, and the provision of inmate transportation services by a subsidiary, expose us to potential third-party claims or litigation by prisoners or other persons relating to personal injury or other damages resulting from contact with a facility, its managers, personnel or other prisoners, including damages arising from a prisoner's escape from, or a disturbance or riot at, a facility we own or manage, or from the misconduct of our employees.  To the extent the events serving as a basis for any potential claims are alleged or determined to constitute illegal or criminal activity, we could also be subject to criminal liability.  Such liability could result in significant monetary fines and could affect our ability to bid on future contracts and retain our existing contracts. In addition, as an owner of real property, we may be subject to a variety of proceedings relating to personal injuries of persons at such facilities. The claims against our facilities may be significant and may not be covered by insurance. Even in cases covered by insurance, our deductible (or self-insured retention) may be significant.. We are subject to certain stockholder litigation.. In a memorandum to the BOP dated August 18, 2016, the DOJ directed that, as each contract with privately operated prisons reaches the end of its term, the BOP should either decline to renew that contract or substantially reduce its scope in a manner consistent with law and the overall decline of the BOP's inmate population.  In addition to the decline in the BOP's inmate population, the DOJ memorandum cites purported operational, programming, and cost efficiency factors as reasons for the DOJ directive.  On February 21, 2017, the newly appointed U.S. Attorney General issued a memorandum rescinding the DOJ's prior directive stating the August 18, 2016 memorandum changed long-standing policy and practice and impaired the BOP's ability to meet the future needs of the federal correctional system.. Following the release of the August 18, 2016 DOJ memorandum, a purported securities class action lawsuit was filed against us and certain of our current and former officers in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Tennessee, or the District Court, captioned Grae v. Corrections Corporation of America et al., Case No. 3:16-cv-02267.  The lawsuit is brought on behalf of a putative class of shareholders who purchased or acquired our securities between February 27, 2012 and August 17, 2016.  In general, the lawsuit alleges that, during this timeframe, our public statements were false and/or misleading regarding the purported operational, programming, and cost efficiency factors cited in the DOJ memorandum and, as a result, our stock price was artificially inflated.  The lawsuit alleges that the publication of the DOJ memorandum on August 18, 2016 revealed the alleged fraud, causing the per share price of our stock to decline, thereby causing harm to the putative class of shareholders.. On May 12, 2017, we submitted a motion to dismiss the plaintiff's complaint in its entirety with prejudice.  On December 18, 2017, the District Court entered an order denying our motion to dismiss. We believe the lawsuit is entirely without merit, and intend to vigorously defend against it.  In addition, we maintain insurance, with certain self-insured retention amounts, to cover the alleged claims which mitigates the risk such litigation would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.. We are subject to risks associated with ownership of real estate.. Our ownership of correctional, detention, and residential reentry facilities and other government-leased assets subjects us to risks typically associated with investments in real estate. Investments in real estate and, in particular, correctional and detention facilities have limited or no alternative use and thus are relatively illiquid. Therefore, our ability to divest ourselves of one or more of our facilities promptly in response to changing conditions is limited. Investments in real estate properties subject us to risks involving potential exposure to environmental liability and uninsured loss. Our operating costs may be affected by the obligation to pay for the cost of complying with existing environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, as well as the cost of complying with future legislation. In addition, although we maintain insurance for many types of losses, there are certain types of losses, such as losses from earthquakes and acts of terrorism, which may be either uninsurable or for which it may not be economically feasible to obtain insurance coverage in light of the substantial costs associated with such insurance. As a result, we could. 35. lose both our capital invested in, and anticipated profits from, one or more of the properties we own. Further, it is possible to experience losses that may exceed the limits of insurance coverage.. In addition, facility development and expansion projects pose additional risks, including cost overruns caused by various factors, many of which are beyond our control, such as weather, labor conditions, and material shortages, resulting in increased construction costs. Further, if we are unable to utilize the new bed capacity, our financial results could deteriorate.. Certain of our facilities are subject to options to purchase and reversions.  Ten of our facilities are subject to an option to purchase by certain governmental agencies.  Such options are exercisable by the corresponding contracting governmental entity generally at any time during the term of the respective facility contract.  Certain of these purchase options are based on the depreciated book value of the facility, which essentially results in the transfer of ownership of the facility to the governmental agency at the end of the life used for accounting purposes, while other options to purchase are exercisable at prices below fair market value.   See \"Business  -  Facility Portfolio  -  Facilities and Facility Management Contracts.\"  If any of these options are exercised, there exists the risk that we will be unable to invest the proceeds from the sale of the facility in one or more properties that yield as much cash flow as the property acquired by the government entity.  In addition, in the event any of these options is exercised, there exists the risk that the contracting governmental agency will terminate the management contract associated with such facility.  For the year ended December 31, 2017, the ten facilities currently subject to these options generated $338.9 million in revenue (19.2% of total revenue) and incurred $257.5 million in operating expenses.. Risks related to facility construction and development activities may increase our costs related to such activities. When we are engaged to perform construction and design services for a facility, we typically act as the primary contractor and subcontract with other companies that act as the general contractors. As primary contractor, we are subject to the various risks associated with construction (including, without limitation, shortages of labor and materials, work stoppages, labor disputes, and weather interference which could cause construction delays). In addition, we are subject to the risk that the general contractor will be unable to complete construction at the budgeted costs or be unable to fund any excess construction costs, even though we require general contractors to post construction bonds and insurance. Under such contracts, we are ultimately liable for all late delivery penalties and cost overruns.. We may be adversely affected by an increase in costs or difficulty of obtaining adequate levels of surety credit on favorable terms.. We are often required to post bid or performance bonds issued by a surety company as a condition to bidding on or being awarded a contract. Availability and pricing of these surety commitments are subject to general market and industry conditions, among other factors. Increases in surety costs could adversely affect our operating results if we are unable to effectively pass along such increases to our customers. We cannot assure you that we will have continued access to surety credit or that we will be able to secure bonds economically, without additional collateral, or at the levels required for any potential facility development or contract bids. If we are unable to obtain adequate levels of surety credit on favorable terms, we would have to rely upon letters of credit under our revolving credit facility which could entail higher costs if such borrowing capacity was even available when desired at the time, and our ability to bid for or obtain new contracts could be impaired.. Interruption, delay or failure of the provision of our technology services or information systems, or the compromise of the security thereof, could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Components of our business depend significantly on effective information systems and technologies. As with all companies that utilize information systems, we are vulnerable to negative impacts if the operation of those systems is interrupted, delayed, or certain information contained therein is compromised. As a matter of course, we exchange data with our government partners and other third-party providers. The nature of this business is such that we do not store credit card or other retail transactional data.  Additionally, our revenue cycle is such that it provides for a much longer post-breach recovery window without adversely impacting revenue management than is typical.  For other personal information we do store, we employ industry-standard methodologies to ensure the availability and security of such systems and information. Additionally, we conduct detailed cyber security and data handling training for all employees with access to that data, and employ independent third parties to assess configuration status, perimeter. 36. strength, and social engineering effectiveness. Despite the security measures we have in place, and any additional measures we may implement in the future, our facilities and systems, and those of our third-party service providers, could be vulnerable to security breaches, computer viruses, lost or misplaced data, programming errors, human errors, acts of vandalism, or other events. For example, several well-known companies have recently disclosed high-profile security breaches involving sophisticated and highly targeted attacks on their company's infrastructure or their customers' data, which were not recognized or detected until after such companies had been affected notwithstanding the preventive measures they had in place. Any security breach or event resulting in the interruption, delay or failure of our services or information systems, or the misappropriation, loss, or other unauthorized disclosure of customer data or confidential information, including confidential information about our employees, whether by us directly or our third-party service providers, could damage our reputation, expose us to the risks of litigation and liability, disrupt our business, result in lost business, or otherwise adversely affect our results of operations. We did not experience any such incidents in 2017.. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our debt securities.. We have a significant amount of indebtedness.  As of December 31, 2017, we had total indebtedness of $1,459.0 million.  Our indebtedness could have important consequences.  For example, it could:. •  make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness;. •  increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. •  require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, dividends, and other general corporate purposes;. •  limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;. •  restrict us from pursuing strategic acquisitions or certain other business opportunities;. •  place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and. •  limit our ability to borrow additional funds or refinance existing indebtedness on favorable terms.. If we are unable to meet our debt service obligations, we may need to reduce capital expenditures and dividend distributions, restructure or refinance our indebtedness, obtain additional equity financing or sell assets. We may be unable to restructure or refinance our indebtedness, obtain additional equity financing or sell assets on satisfactory terms or at all.. Our senior bank credit facility, indentures related to our senior notes, and other debt instruments have restrictive covenants that could limit our financial flexibility.. The indentures related to our aggregate original principal amount of $325.0 million 4.125% senior notes due 2020, $350.0 million 4.625% senior notes due 2023, $250.0 million 5.0% senior notes due 2022, and $250.0 million 4.75% senior notes due 2027, collectively referred to herein as our senior notes, and our senior bank credit facility, contain financial and other restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests.  Our ability to borrow under our senior bank credit facility is subject to compliance with certain financial covenants, including leverage and interest coverage ratios.  Our senior bank credit facility includes other restrictions that, among other things, limit our ability to incur indebtedness; grant liens; engage in mergers, consolidations and liquidations; make asset dispositions, restricted payments and investments; enter into transactions with affiliates; and amend, modify or prepay certain indebtedness.  The indentures related to our senior notes contain limitations on our ability to effect mergers and change of control events, as well as other limitations on our ability to create liens on our assets.. 37. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all or a substantial portion of our debts.  We do not have sufficient working capital to satisfy our debt obligations in the event of an acceleration of all or a significant portion of our outstanding indebtedness.. Our indebtedness is secured by a substantial portion of our assets.. Subject to applicable laws and certain agreed-upon exceptions, our $900.0 revolving credit facility and our incremental term loans, available pursuant to an \"accordion\" feature under our revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of up to an additional $350.0 million, are secured by a pledge of all of the capital stock of CoreCivic's domestic subsidiaries, 65% of the capital stock of CoreCivic's foreign subsidiaries, all of CoreCivic's accounts receivable and all of CoreCivic's deposit accounts. Subject to compliance with the restrictive covenants under our existing indebtedness, we may incur additional indebtedness secured by existing or future assets of CoreCivic or our subsidiaries. In the event of a default under our credit facility or any other secured indebtedness, or if we experience insolvency, liquidation, dissolution or reorganization, the holders of our secured debt instruments would first be entitled to payment from their collateral security, and only then would holders of our unsecured debt be entitled to payment from our remaining assets. In such an event, there can be no assurance that we would have sufficient assets to pay amounts due to holders of our unsecured debt and such holders may receive less than the full amount to which they are entitled.. Servicing our indebtedness will require a significant amount of cash or may require us to refinance our indebtedness before it matures.  Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control and there is no assurance that we will be able to refinance our debt on acceptable terms.. Currently, our incremental term loan and revolving credit facility both mature in July 2020. We also have outstanding $325.0 million in aggregate principal amount of our 4.125% senior notes due 2020, $350.0 million in aggregate principal amount of our 4.625% senior notes due 2023, $250.0 million in aggregate principal amount of our 5.0% senior notes due 2022 and $250.0 million in aggregate principal amount of our 4.75% senior notes due 2027.  Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness, to refinance our indebtedness, and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future.  This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, and other factors that are beyond our control.. The risk exists that our business will be unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will not be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, including our existing senior notes, or to fund our other liquidity needs.  We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, including our senior notes, on or before maturity.  Our ability to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on acceptable terms, or at all, will be dependent upon a number of factors, including our degree of leverage, the value of our assets, borrowing and other financial restrictions imposed by lenders and conditions in the credit markets at the time we refinance. If we are unable to refinance our indebtedness on acceptable terms, we may be forced to agree to otherwise unfavorable financing terms or sell one or more properties at unattractive prices or on disadvantageous terms. Any one of these options could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. We are required to repurchase all or a portion of our senior notes upon a change of control, and our senior bank credit facility is subject to acceleration upon a change of control.. Upon certain change of control events, as that term is defined in the indentures for our senior notes, including a change of control caused by an unsolicited third party, we are required to make an offer in cash to repurchase all or any part of each holder's notes at a repurchase price equal to 101% of the principal thereof, plus accrued interest.  The source of funds for any such repurchase would be our available cash or cash generated from operations or other sources, including borrowings, sales of equity or funds provided by a new controlling person or entity.  Sufficient funds may not be available to us, however, at the time of any change of control event to repurchase all or a portion of the tendered notes pursuant to this requirement.  Our failure to offer to repurchase notes, or to repurchase notes tendered, following a change of control will result in a default under the respective indentures, which could lead to a cross-default under our senior bank credit facility and under the terms of our other indebtedness.  In addition, terms of our senior bank credit facility, which are subject to acceleration upon the occurrence of a change in control (as. 38. described therein), may prohibit us from making any such required repurchases.  Prior to repurchasing the notes upon a change of control event, we must either repay outstanding indebtedness under our senior bank credit facility or obtain the consent of the lenders under our senior bank credit facility.  If we do not obtain the required consents or repay our outstanding indebtedness under our senior bank credit facility, we would remain effectively prohibited from offering to repurchase the notes.. Despite current indebtedness levels, we may still incur more debt.. The terms of the indentures for our senior notes and our senior bank credit facility restrict our ability to incur indebtedness; however, we may nevertheless incur additional indebtedness in the future, and in the future, we may refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, including our senior bank credit facility, and may incur additional indebtedness as a result. As of December 31, 2017, we had $694.1 million of additional borrowing capacity available under our revolving credit facility. In addition, we may issue an indeterminate amount of debt securities from time to time when we determine that market conditions and the opportunity to utilize the proceeds from the issuance of such debt securities are favorable. If new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries' current debt levels, the related risks that we and they now face could intensify.. Our access to capital may be affected by general macroeconomic conditions.. Credit markets may tighten significantly such that our ability to obtain new capital will be more challenging and more expensive.  We can provide no assurance that the banks that have made commitments under our senior bank credit facility will continue to operate as going concerns in the future or will agree to extend commitments beyond the maturity date.  If any of the banks in the lending group were to fail, or fail to renew their commitments, it is possible that the capacity under our senior bank credit facility would be reduced.  In the event that the availability under our senior bank credit facility was reduced significantly, we could be required to obtain capital from alternate sources in order to continue with our business and capital strategies.  Our options for addressing such capital constraints would include, but not be limited to (i) delaying certain capital expenditure projects, (ii) obtaining commitments from the remaining banks in the lending group or from new banks to fund increased or new amounts under the terms of our senior bank credit facility, (iii) accessing the public capital markets, or (iv) reducing our dividend (but not less than amounts required to maintain our status as a REIT and avoid income and excise taxes).  Such alternatives could be on terms less favorable than under existing terms, which could have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.. Rising interest rates would increase the cost of our variable rate debt.. We have incurred and expect in the future to incur indebtedness that bears interest at variable rates, including indebtedness under our senior bank credit facility. Accordingly, increases in interest rates would increase our interest costs, which could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and pay amounts due on our debt or cause us to be in default under certain debt instruments. In addition, an increase in market interest rates may lead holders of our common stock to demand a higher yield on their shares from distributions by us, which could adversely affect the market price for our common stock.. Risks Related to our REIT Structure. If we fail to remain qualified as a REIT, we would be subject to corporate income taxes and would not be able to deduct distributions to stockholders when computing our taxable income.. We currently operate in a manner that is intended to allow us to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes commencing with our taxable year beginning January 1, 2013. However, we cannot assure you that we have qualified or will remain qualified as a REIT. Qualification as a REIT requires us to satisfy numerous requirements established under highly technical and complex sections of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, which may change from time to time and for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations, and involves the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. For example, in order to qualify as a REIT, the REIT must derive at least 95% of its gross income in any year from qualifying sources. In addition, a REIT is required to distribute annually to its stockholders at least 90% of. 39. its REIT taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding capital gains) and must satisfy specified asset tests on a quarterly basis.. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we would be subject to federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income computed in the usual manner for corporate taxpayers without deduction for distributions to our stockholders and we may need to borrow additional funds or issue securities to pay such additional tax liability. Any such corporate income tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for other purposes, including distributions to our stockholders, because, unless we are entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, we would be taxable as a C-corporation, beginning in the year in which the failure occurs, and we would not be allowed to re-elect to be taxed as a REIT for the following four years.. Even if we remain qualified as a REIT, we may owe taxes under certain circumstances.. Even if we qualify as a REIT, we will be subject to certain U.S. federal, state and local taxes on our income and property, including on taxable income that we do not distribute to our stockholders, and on net income from certain \"prohibited transactions\". In addition, the REIT provisions of the Code are complex and are not always subject to clear interpretation. For example, a REIT must derive at least 95% of its gross income in any year from qualifying sources, including rents from real property. Rents from real property include amounts received for the use of limited amounts of personal property and for certain services. Whether amounts constitute rents from real property or other qualifying income may not be entirely clear in all cases. We may fail to qualify as a REIT if we exceed the permissible amounts of non-qualifying income unless such failures qualify for relief under certain statutory relief provisions. Even if we qualify for statutory relief, we may be required to pay an excise or penalty tax (which could be significant in amount) in order to utilize one or more such relief provisions under the Code to maintain our qualification as a REIT. Furthermore, we conduct substantial activities through TRSs, and the income of those subsidiaries is subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates.. To maintain our REIT status, we may be forced to obtain capital during unfavorable market conditions, which could adversely affect our overall financial performance.. In order to qualify as a REIT, we will be required each year to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding any net capital gain), and we will be subject to tax to the extent our taxable income (including net capital gain) is not fully distributed. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which distributions we pay in any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income, 95% of our net capital gains, and 100% of our undistributed income from prior years. We intend to continue to make distributions to our stockholders to comply with the distribution requirements of the Code as well as to reduce our exposure to federal income taxes and the nondeductible excise tax. Differences in timing between the receipt of income and the payment of expenses to arrive at taxable income, along with the effect of required debt amortization payments, could require us to borrow funds to meet the distribution requirements that are necessary to achieve the tax benefits associated with qualifying as a REIT. We may acquire additional capital through our issuance of securities senior to our common stock, including additional borrowings or other indebtedness or the issuance of additional securities. Issuance of such senior securities creates additional risks because leverage is a speculative technique that may adversely affect common stockholders or noteholders. If the return on assets acquired with borrowed funds or other leverage proceeds does not exceed the cost of the leverage, the use of leverage could negatively affect our cash flow.. Additionally, the issuance of senior securities involves offering expenses and other costs, including interest payments, which are borne indirectly by our common stockholders.  Fluctuations in interest rates could increase interest payments on our senior securities, and could reduce cash available for distribution on common stock or for payment on our debt securities. Increased operating costs, including the financing cost associated with any leverage, may reduce our total return to common stockholders.  Rating agency guidelines applicable to any senior securities may impose asset coverage requirements, dividend limitations, voting right requirements (in the case of the senior equity securities), and other restrictions. Further, the terms of any senior securities or other borrowings may impose additional requirements, restrictions and limitations that are more stringent than those required by a rating agency that rates outstanding senior securities that may have an adverse effect on us and may affect our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders.  On the other hand, we may not be able to raise such additional capital in the future. 40. on favorable terms or at all.  Unfavorable economic conditions could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us.. Further, in order to maintain our REIT status, we may need to borrow funds to meet the REIT distribution requirements even if the then-prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings. These borrowing needs could result from differences in timing between the actual receipt of cash and inclusion of income for federal income tax purposes or the effect of non-deductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves, or required debt or amortization payments. Our ability to access debt and equity capital on favorable terms or at all is dependent upon a number of factors, including general market conditions, the market's perception of our growth potential, our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions, and the market price of our securities. Issuance of debt or equity securities will expose us to typical risks associated with leverage, including increased risk of loss.. To the extent our ability to issue debt or other senior securities such as preferred stock is constrained, we may depend on issuance of additional shares of common stock to finance new investments.  If we raise additional funds by issuing more shares of our common stock or senior securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, shares of our common stock, the percentage ownership of our stockholders at that time would decrease, and you may experience dilution.. Performing services through our TRSs may increase our overall tax liability relative to other REITs or subject us to certain excise taxes.. A TRS may hold assets and earn income, including income earned from the performance of correctional services, that would not be qualifying assets or income if held or earned directly by a REIT.  We conduct a significant portion of our business activities through our TRSs. Our TRSs are subject to federal, foreign, state and local income tax on their taxable income, and their after-tax net income generally is available for distribution to us but is not required to be distributed to us. The TRS rules also impose a 100% excise tax on certain transactions between a TRS and its parent REIT that are not conducted on an arm's-length basis. In addition, the TRS rules limit the deductibility of interest paid or accrued by a TRS to its parent REIT to ensure that the TRS is subject to an appropriate level of corporate income taxation. We believe our arrangements with our TRSs are on arm's-length terms and intend to continue to operate in a manner that allows us to avoid incurring the 100% excise tax described above. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to avoid application of the 100% excise tax or the limitations on interest deductions discussed above.. The value of the securities we own in our TRS is limited under the REIT asset tests.. Under the Code, no more than 25% (20% for tax years beginning on or after January 1, 2018) of the value of the gross assets of a REIT may be represented by securities of one or more TRSs. This limitation may affect our ability to increase the size of our TRSs' operations and assets, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with this limitation. If we are unable to comply with this limitation, we would fail to qualify as a REIT. Furthermore, our significant use of TRSs may cause the market to value shares of our common stock differently than the stock of other REITs, which may not use TRSs as extensively. Although we intend to monitor the value of our investments in TRSs, there can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with the 25% (20% for tax years beginning on or after January 1, 2018) limitation discussed above.. We may be limited in our ability to fund distributions using cash generated through our TRSs.. At least 75% of gross income for each taxable year as a REIT must be derived from passive real estate sources and no more than 25% of gross income may consist of dividends from our TRSs and other non-real estate income. This limitation on our ability to receive dividends from our TRSs may affect our ability to fund cash distributions to our stockholders using cash from our TRSs. Moreover, our TRSs are not required to distribute their net income to us, and any income of our TRSs that is not distributed to us will not be subject to the REIT income distribution requirement.. 41. REIT ownership limitations may restrict or prevent you from engaging in certain transfers of our common stock.. In order to satisfy the requirements for REIT qualification, no more than 50% in value of all classes or series of our outstanding shares of stock may be owned, actually or constructively, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Code to include certain entities) at any time during the last half of each taxable year beginning with our 2014 taxable year. To assist us in satisfying this share ownership requirement, our charter imposes ownership limits on each class and series of our shares of stock. Under applicable constructive ownership rules, any shares of stock owned by certain affiliated owners generally would be added together for purposes of the common stock ownership limits, and any shares of a given class or series of preferred stock owned by certain affiliated owners generally would be added together for purposes of the ownership limit on such class or series.. If anyone transfers shares of our common stock in a manner that would violate the ownership limits, or prevent us from qualifying as a REIT under the federal income tax laws, those shares of common stock instead would be transferred to a trust for the benefit of a charitable beneficiary and will be either redeemed by us or sold to a person whose ownership of the shares will not violate the ownership limit. If this transfer to a trust fails to prevent such a violation or fails to permit our continued qualification as a REIT, then the initial intended transfer would be null and void from the outset. The intended transferee of those shares will be deemed never to have owned the shares. Anyone who acquires shares in violation of the ownership limit or the other restrictions on transfer bears the risk of suffering a financial loss when the shares of common stock are redeemed or sold if the market price of our shares of common stock falls between the date of purchase and the date of redemption or sale.. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities or liquidate otherwise attractive investments.. To qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our common stock. If we fail to comply with one or more of the asset tests at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct the failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter or qualify for certain statutory relief provisions to avoid losing our REIT qualification and suffering adverse tax consequences. In order to meet these tests, we may be required to forego investments we might otherwise make or to liquidate otherwise attractive investments. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our performance and reduce amounts available for distribution to our stockholders.. The tax imposed on REITs engaging in \"prohibited transactions\" may limit our ability to engage in transactions which would be treated as sales for federal income tax purposes.. A REIT's net income from prohibited transactions is subject to a 100% penalty tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property, other than foreclosure property, held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. Although we do not intend to hold any properties that would be characterized as held for sale to customers in the ordinary course of our business, unless a sale or disposition qualifies under certain statutory safe harbors, such characterization is a factual determination and no guarantee can be given that the IRS would agree with our characterization of our properties or that we will always be able to make use of the available safe harbors.. 42. We have not established a minimum distribution payment level, and we may be unable to generate sufficient cash flows from our operations to make distributions to our stockholders at any time in the future.. We are generally required to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our net taxable income (excluding net capital gains) each year to qualify as a REIT under the Code. To the extent we satisfy the 90% distribution requirement but distribute less than 100% of our net taxable income (including net capital gains), we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed net taxable income. We intend to distribute at least 100% of our net taxable income (excluding net capital gains). However, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders may be adversely affected by the issues described in the risk factors set forth in this Annual Report. Subject to satisfying the requirements for REIT qualification, we intend to continue to make regular quarterly distributions to our stockholders. Our Board of Directors has the sole discretion to determine the timing, form and amount of any distributions to our stockholders. Our Board of Directors makes determinations regarding distributions based upon, among other factors, our historical and projected results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and liquidity, satisfaction of the requirements for REIT qualification and other tax considerations, capital expenditure and other expense obligations, debt covenants, contractual prohibitions or other limitations and applicable law and such other matters as our Board of Directors may deem relevant from time to time.. It is possible that we will not be able to continue to make distributions to our stockholders or that the level of any distributions we do make to our stockholders will achieve a market yield or increase or even be maintained over time, any of which could materially and adversely affect the market price of our shares of common stock. Distributions could be dilutive to our financial results and may constitute a return of capital to our investors, which would have the effect of reducing each stockholder's basis in its shares of common stock. We also could use borrowed funds or proceeds from the sale of assets to fund distributions.. Dividends payable by REITs, including us, generally do not qualify for the reduced tax rates available for some dividends.. \"Qualified dividends\" payable to U.S. stockholders that are individuals, trusts and estates generally are subject to tax at preferential rates.  Subject to limited exceptions, dividends payable by REITs are not eligible for these reduced rates and are taxable at ordinary income tax rates.  The more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate qualified dividends could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the shares of REITs, including the shares of our common stock.. Distributions that we make to our stockholders are treated as dividends to the extent of our earnings and profits as determined for federal income tax purposes and are generally taxable to our stockholders as ordinary income.  However, our dividends are eligible for the lower rate applicable to \"qualified dividends\" to the extent they are attributable to income that was previously subject to corporate income tax, such as the dividends we receive from our TRSs or attributable to the accumulated earnings and profits in connection with acquisitions of C-corporations.  Also, a portion of our distributions may be designated by us as long-term capital gains to the extent that they are attributable to capital gain income recognized by us.  Our distributions may constitute a return of capital to the extent that they exceed our earnings and profits as determined for federal income tax purposes. A return of capital generally is not taxable, but has the effect of reducing the basis of a stockholder's investment in our shares of common stock.  Any such distributions that exceed a stockholder's tax basis in our shares of common stock generally will be taxable as capital gains.. For tax years beginning after December 31, 2017 (but subject to a sunset expiration at the end of 2025), U.S. stockholders that are individuals, trusts and estates generally are allowed a deduction in computing taxable income equal to 20% of any dividends received from REITs (other than any portion that is a capital gain dividend). Depending on the ordinary income tax rate applicable to investors who are individuals, trust and estates, the 20% deduction for REIT dividends may offset (or eliminate) the relatively more favorable tax treatment applicable to regular corporate qualified dividends.. 43. We could have potential deferred and contingent tax liabilities from our REIT conversion that could limit, delay or impede future sales of our properties.. Even though we qualify for taxation as a REIT, if we acquire any asset from a corporation which is or has been a C-corporation in a transaction in which the basis of the asset in our hands is less than the fair market value of the asset determined at the time we acquired the asset, and we subsequently recognize a gain on the disposition of the asset during the five-year period beginning on the date on which we acquired the asset, then we will be required to pay tax at the highest regular corporate tax rate on this gain to the extent of the excess of (a) the fair market value of the asset over (b) our adjusted basis in the asset, in each case determined as of the date on which we acquired the asset. These requirements could limit, delay or impede future sales of our properties. We currently do not expect to sell any asset if the sale would result in the imposition of a material tax liability. We cannot, however, assure you that we will not change our plans in this regard.. We may inherit tax liabilities and attributes in connection with acquisitions.. From time to time we may acquire other corporations or entities and, in connection with such acquisitions, we may succeed to the historic tax attributes and liabilities of such entities. For example, in order to qualify as a REIT, at the end of any taxable year, we must not have any earnings and profits accumulated in a non-REIT year. As a result, if we acquire a C-corporation in certain transactions, we must distribute the corporation's earnings and profits accumulated prior to the acquisition before the end of the taxable year in which we acquire the C-corporation. We also could be required to pay the acquired entity's unpaid taxes even though such liabilities arose prior to the time we acquired the entity. These issues are applicable to Avalon and CMI which were C-corporations prior to our acquisitions of these companies.. Legislative or regulatory action affecting REITs could adversely affect us or our stockholders.. In recent years, numerous legislative, judicial and administrative changes have been made to the federal income tax laws applicable to investments in REITs and similar entities. At any time, the federal income tax laws governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws may be amended. Changes to the tax laws, regulations and administrative interpretations, which may have retroactive application, could adversely affect us and may impact our taxation or that of our stockholders. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that any such change will not significantly affect our ability to qualify for taxation as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences to us of such qualification.. U.S. federal tax reform legislation could affect REITs generally, the geographic markets in which we operate, our stock and our results of operations, both positively and negatively in ways that are difficult to anticipate.. The U.S. Congress recently passed tax reform legislation that made significant changes to corporate and individual tax rates and the calculation of taxes, as well as international tax rules for U.S. domestic corporations. In addition, it is uncertain if and to what extent various states will conform to the newly enacted federal tax law.  As a REIT, we are generally not required to pay federal taxes otherwise applicable to regular corporations (except for income generated by our TRSs) if we comply with the various tax regulations governing REITs.  Stockholders, however, are generally required to pay taxes on REIT dividends.  Tax reform legislation affects the way in which dividends paid on shares of our common stock are taxed and could impact our stock price or how stockholders and potential investors view an investment in REITs generally.   In addition, while certain elements of tax reform legislation may not impact us directly as a REIT, they could impact the geographic markets in which we operate, particularly affecting tenants of our leased property and their corporate tax obligations, if any.. 44. Other Risks Related to Our Securities. The market price of our equity securities may vary substantially, which may limit our stockholders' ability to liquidate their investment.. The trading prices of equity securities issued by REITs have historically been affected by changes in market interest rates. One of the factors that may influence the price of our common stock in public trading markets is the annual yield from distributions on our common stock as compared to yields on other financial instruments. An increase in market interest rates, or a decrease in our distributions to stockholders, may lead prospective purchasers of our shares to demand a higher annual yield, which could reduce the market price of our equity securities.. Other factors that could affect the market price of our equity securities include the following:. •  actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly results of operations;. •  changes in market valuations of companies in the corrections, detention, or residential reentry industries;. •  changes in expectations of future financial performance or changes in estimates of securities analysts;. •  fluctuations in stock market prices and volumes;. •  issuances of common shares or other securities in the future; and. •  announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, investments or strategic actions.. The number of shares of our common stock available for future sale could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. We cannot predict the effect, if any, of future sales of common stock, or the availability of common stock for future sale, on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock (including stock issued under equity compensation plans or stock issued pursuant to our ATM Agreement), or the perception that these sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock.. Future offerings of debt or equity securities ranking senior to our common stock or incurrence of debt (including under our senior bank credit facility) may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. If we decide to issue debt or equity securities in the future ranking senior to our common stock or otherwise incur indebtedness (including under our senior bank credit facility), it is possible that these securities or indebtedness will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility and limiting our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Additionally, any convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges, including with respect to distributions, more favorable than those of our common stock and may result in dilution to owners of our common stock. Because our decision to issue debt or equity securities in any future offering or otherwise incur indebtedness will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings or financings, any of which could reduce the market price of our common stock and dilute the value of our common stock.. Our issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect holders of our common stock and discourage a takeover.. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 50.0 million shares of preferred stock without any action on the part of our stockholders.  Our Board of Directors also has the authority, without stockholder approval, to set the terms of any new series of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, dividend rights, liquidation rights and other preferences superior to our common stock.  In the event that we issue shares of preferred stock in the future that have preferences superior to our common stock, the rights of the holders of our common stock or the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. In addition, the ability of our Board of Directors to issue shares of preferred stock without any action on the part of our stockholders may impede a takeover of us and discourage or prevent a transaction favorable to our stockholders.. 45. Our charter and bylaws and Maryland law could make it difficult for a third party to acquire our company.. The Maryland General Corporation Law and our charter and bylaws contain provisions that could delay, deter, or prevent a change in control of our company or our management. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for our stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions:. •  authorize us to issue \"blank check\" preferred stock, which is preferred stock that can be created and issued by our Board of Directors, without stockholder approval, with rights senior to those of common stock;. •  provide that directors may be removed with or without cause only by the affirmative vote of at least a majority of the votes of shares entitled to vote thereon; and. •  establish advance notice requirements for submitting nominations for election to the Board of Directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at a meeting.. We are also subject to anti-takeover provisions under Maryland law, which could delay or prevent a change of control. Together, these provisions of our charter and bylaws and Maryland law may discourage transactions that otherwise could provide for the payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our common stock, and also could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock."
