[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business. The lack of liquidity in our investments may adversely affect our business.. We acquire a significant percentage of our portfolio company investments from privately held companies in directly negotiated transactions. Substantially all of these securities are subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or are otherwise less liquid than exchange-listed securities. We typically would be unable to exit these investments unless and until the portfolio company has a liquidity event such as a sale, refinancing, or initial public offering.. The illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult or impossible for us to sell such investments if the need arises. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have previously recorded our investments, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Moreover, securities purchased by us that are liquid at the time of purchase may subsequently become illiquid due to events relating to the issuer of the securities, market events, economic conditions or investor perceptions, or the absence of active investment market participants.. Price declines in the corporate leveraged loan market may adversely affect the fair value of our portfolio, reducing our net asset value through increased net unrealized depreciation and the incurrence of realized losses.. Conditions in the U.S. corporate debt market may experience disruption or deterioration in the future, which may cause pricing levels to decline or be volatile. As a result, our net asset value could decline through an increase in unrealized depreciation and incurrence of realized losses in connection with the sale of our investments, which could have a material adverse impact on us and our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our ability to achieve our investment objective depends on KKR's ability to manage and support our investment process. If KKR were to lose a significant number of its key professionals, or terminate the New Investment Advisory Agreement, our ability to sustain our investment objective could be significantly harmed.. We do not have employees. Additionally, we have no internal management capacity other than our appointed executive officers and are dependent upon the investment expertise, skill and network of business contacts of KKR to achieve our investment objective. KKR evaluates, negotiates, structures, executes, monitors and services our investments. Our success depends to a significant extent on the continued service and coordination of KKR, including its key professionals. The departure of a significant number of key professionals from KKR could have a material adverse effect on our ability to sustain our investment objective.. Our ability to sustain our investment objective also depends on the continued ability of KKR to identify, analyze, invest in, finance, and monitor companies that meet our investment criteria. KKR's capabilities in structuring the investment process, providing competent, attentive and efficient services to us, and facilitating access to financing on acceptable terms depend on the involvement of investment professionals of adequate number and sophistication to match the corresponding flow of transactions. To sustain our investment objective, KKR may need to retain, hire, train, supervise, and manage new investment professionals to participate in our investment selection and monitoring process. KKR may not be able to find qualified investment professionals in a timely manner or at all. Any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, the New Investment Advisory Agreement has termination provisions that allow the agreement to be terminated by us on 60 days' notice without penalty and by KKR upon 120 days' notice to us without penalty. The termination of the New Investment Advisory Agreement may adversely affect the quality of our investment opportunities. In addition, in the event that the New Investment Advisory Agreement is terminated, it may be difficult for us to replace KKR as our investment. 7. Table of Contents. adviser, and we would no longer have the ability to co-invest in privately negotiated transactions unless we filed a new SEC Exemptive Order and obtained the required exemptive relief.. The amount of any distributions we may make on our common stock is uncertain. We may not be able to pay you distributions, or be able to sustain distributions at any particular level, and our distributions per share, if any, may not grow over time, and our distributions per share may be reduced.. We pay distributions out of assets legally available for distribution. However, we cannot assure you that we will achieve investment results that will allow us to sustain a consistent targeted level of cash distributions or year-to-year increases in cash distributions. Our ability to pay distributions might be adversely affected by the impact of the risks described in this report. In addition, the inability to satisfy the asset coverage test applicable to us as a business development company and certain covenants in our credit facilities can limit our ability to pay distributions. We cannot assure you that we will continue to pay distributions to our shareholders in the future.. Distributions on our common stock may exceed our taxable earnings and profits; therefore, portions of the distributions that we pay may represent a return of capital to you, which will (i) lower your tax basis in your shares and thereby increase the amount of capital gain (or decrease the amount of capital loss) realized upon a subsequent sale or redemption of such shares, and (ii) reduce the amount of funds we have for investment in portfolio companies. We have not established any limit on the extent to which we may use borrowings, if any, or offering proceeds to fund distributions (which may reduce the amount of capital we ultimately invest in portfolio companies).. We may pay our distributions from offering proceeds or from borrowings in anticipation of future cash flow, which may constitute a return of your capital and will lower your tax basis in your shares, thereby increasing the amount of capital gain (or decreasing the amount of capital loss) realized upon a subsequent sale or redemption of such shares, even if such shares have not increased in value or have, in fact, lost value. Distributions from offering proceeds or from borrowings also could reduce the amount of capital we ultimately have available to invest in debt or equity securities of portfolio companies.. Because our business model depends to a significant extent upon relationships with corporations, financial institutions and investment firms, the inability of KKR to maintain or develop these relationships, or the failure of these relationships to generate investment opportunities, could adversely affect our business.. We expect that KKR will depend on its relationships with corporations, financial institutions and investment firms in providing investment advisory services to us, and we rely to a significant extent upon these relationships to provide us with potential investment opportunities. If KKR fails to maintain its existing relationships or develop new relationships or sources of investment opportunities, we may not be able to grow our investment portfolio. In addition, individuals with whom KKR has relationships are not obligated to provide us with investment opportunities, and, therefore, there is no assurance that such relationships will generate investment opportunities for us.. We may face increasing competition for investment opportunities, which could delay further deployment of our capital, reduce returns and result in losses.. We compete for investments with other business development companies and investment funds (including registered investment companies, private equity funds and mezzanine funds), as well as traditional financial services companies such as commercial banks and other sources of funding. Moreover, alternative investment vehicles, such as hedge funds, continue to increase their investment focus in our target market of privately owned U.S. companies. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, increased competition from banks and investment vehicles who may continue to lend to the middle market. Additionally, the Federal Reserve and other bank regulators may periodically provide incentives to U.S. commercial banks to originate more loans in the middle market of private companies. As a result of these market participants and regulatory incentives, competition for investment opportunities in privately owned U.S. companies is strong and may intensify. Many of our competitors are larger and have considerably greater financial, technical, and marketing resources than we do. For example, some competitors may have a lower cost of capital and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments than us. These characteristics could allow our competitors to consider a wider variety of investments, establish more relationships and offer better pricing and more flexible structuring than we are able to do.. We may lose investment opportunities if we do not match our competitors' pricing, terms, and investment structure criteria. If we are forced to match these competitors' investment terms criteria, we may not be able to achieve acceptable returns on our investments or may bear substantial risk of capital loss. A significant increase in the number and/or the size of our competitors in this target market could force us to accept less attractive investment terms. Furthermore, many competitors are not subject to the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act imposes on us as a business development company or the source of income, asset diversification and distribution requirements we must satisfy to maintain our RIC status. The competitive pressures we face, and the manner in which we react or adjust to competitive pressures, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, effective yield on investments, investment returns, leverage ratio, and. 8. Table of Contents. cash flows. As a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time. Also we may not be able to identify and make investments that are consistent with our investment objective.. Investment in us involves a considerable amount of risk.. An investment in us involves a considerable amount of risk. Before making an investment decision, a prospective investor should (i) consider the suitability of this investment with respect to his or her investment objectives and personal situation and (ii) consider factors such as his or her personal net worth, income, age, risk tolerance and liquidity needs. An investment in our common stock represents an indirect investment in the portfolio of loans and fixed-income instruments, short positions and other securities and derivative instruments owned by us, and the value of these securities and instruments may fluctuate, sometimes rapidly and unpredictably, and such investment is subject to investment risk, including the possible loss of the entire principal amount invested. At any point in time, an investment in our common stock may be worth less than the original amount invested, even after taking into account distributions paid by us and the ability of our shareholders to reinvest distributions. We may also use leverage, which would magnify our investment, market and certain other risks.. We may be materially affected by market, economic and political conditions globally and in the jurisdictions and sectors in which we invest or operate, including factors affecting interest rates, the availability of credit, currency exchange rates and trade barriers. These factors are outside our control and could adversely affect the liquidity and value of our investments, and may reduce our ability to make attractive new investments.. We may be subject to risk arising from a default by one of several large institutions that are dependent on one another to meet their liquidity or operational needs, so that a default by one institution may cause a series of defaults by the other institutions. This is sometimes referred to as \"systemic risk\" and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges, with which we interact on a daily basis.. A majority of our investment portfolio is recorded at fair value as determined in good faith in accordance with procedures established by our Board and, as a result, there is and will be uncertainty as to the value of our portfolio investments.. A majority of our investment portfolio is comprised of investments that are negotiated and originated directly with portfolio companies. Such investments should be considered illiquid or requiring a lengthy time to sell. Additionally, such investments feature more uncertainty as to the precise accuracy of their fair market value since these investments are not positioned in any active securities exchange or secondary market that would otherwise enable informed market participants and dealers to submit bid prices.. Under the 1940 Act, we are required to carry our portfolio investments at market value or, if there is no readily available market value, at fair value as determined in accordance with procedures established by our Board. There is not a public market or active secondary market for many of the securities of the privately held companies in which we invest. The majority of our investments are not publicly traded or actively traded on a secondary market but, instead, may be traded on a privately negotiated over-the-counter secondary market for institutional investors. As a result, we value a majority of our securities quarterly at fair value as determined in good faith in accordance with valuation policy and procedures approved by our Board.. The determination of fair value, and thus the amount of unrealized gains or losses we may recognize in any reporting period, is to a degree subjective, and KKR has a conflict of interest in making recommendations of fair value. We value our investments quarterly at fair value as determined in good faith in accordance with procedures established by our Board based on input from KKR. Our Board utilizes the services of an independent third-party valuation firm to aid us in determining the fair value of certain securities. The types of factors that may be considered in determining the fair values of our investments include the nature and realizable value of any collateral, the portfolio company's ability to make payments and its earnings, the markets in which the portfolio company does business, comparison to publicly traded companies, discounted cash flow, current market interest rates and other relevant factors. Because such valuations, and particularly valuations of private securities and private companies, are inherently uncertain, the valuations may fluctuate significantly over short periods of time due to changes in current market conditions. The determinations of fair value in accordance with procedures established by our Board may differ materially from the values that would have been used if an active market and market quotations existed for such investments. Our net asset value could be adversely affected if the determinations regarding the fair value of the investments were materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon the disposal of such investments. Additionally, a substantial over-estimate of the fair value of our investments may result in excessive borrowing advances relative to collateral value in certain of our credit facilities and lead to remedial margin calls.. Our Board may change our operating policies and strategies without prior notice or shareholder approval, the effects of which may be adverse to our shareholders.. Our Board has the authority to modify or waive current operating policies, investment criteria and strategies without prior notice and without shareholder approval. We cannot predict the effect any changes to current operating policies, investment criteria and strategies would have on our business, net asset value, operating results and the value of our securities.. 9. Table of Contents. However, the effects might be adverse, which could negatively impact our ability to pay you distributions and cause you to lose all or part of your investment. Moreover, we will have significant flexibility in managing our portfolio of assets, including investing in ways with which investors may not agree.. Changes in laws or regulations governing our operations may adversely affect our business or cause us to alter our business strategy.. We and our portfolio companies are subject to regulation at the local, state, and federal levels. Changes to the laws and regulations governing our permitted investments may require a change to our investment strategy. Such changes could differ materially from our previously disclosed strategies and plans and may shift our investment focus from the areas of expertise of KKR. Thus, any such changes, if they occur, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the value of your investment in us.. We may experience fluctuations in our operating results.. We could experience fluctuations in our operating results due to a number of factors, including our ability or inability to make investments in companies that meet our investment criteria, interest rates and default rates on the debt securities we acquire, the level of our expenses, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets, and general economic conditions. These occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, the value of your investment in us and our ability to pay distributions to you and our other shareholders.. Our investments expose us to interest rate risks.. Our investments expose us to interest rate risks, meaning that changes in prevailing market interest rates could negatively affect the value of such investments. Factors that may affect market interest rates include, without limitation, inflation, slow or stagnant economic growth or recession, unemployment, money supply, governmental monetary policies, international disorders and instability in U.S. and non-U.S. financial markets. We expect that we will periodically experience imbalances in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities and the relationships of various interest rates to each other. In a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to manage this risk effectively. If we are unable to manage interest rate risk effectively, our performance could be adversely affected.. Any unrealized losses we experience on our portfolio may be an indication of future realized losses, which could reduce our income available for distribution.. As a business development company, we are required to carry our investments at market value or, if no market value is ascertainable, at the fair value as determined in good faith in accordance with procedures established by our Board. Decreases in the market values or fair values of our investments relative to amortized cost will be recorded as unrealized depreciation. Any unrealized losses in our loan portfolio could be an indication of a portfolio company's inability to meet its repayment obligations to us with respect to the affected loans. This could result in realized losses in the future and ultimately in reductions of our income available for distribution in future periods. In addition, decreases in the market value or fair value of our investments will reduce our net asset value.. We are a non-diversified investment company within the meaning of the 1940 Act, and therefore we are not limited with respect to the proportion of our assets that may be invested in securities of a single issuer.. We are classified as a non-diversified investment company within the meaning of the 1940 Act, which means that we are not limited by the 1940 Act with respect to the proportion of our assets that we may invest in securities of a single issuer. To the extent that we hold large positions in the securities of a small number of issuers, or within a particular industry, our net asset value may fluctuate to a greater extent than that of a diversified investment company as a result of changes in a single issuer's financial condition or the market's assessment of the issuer. We may also be more susceptible to any single economic or regulatory occurrence than a diversified investment company. However, we are subject to the diversification requirements applicable to RICs under Subchapter M of the Code.. We are dependent on information systems and systems failures could significantly disrupt our business, which may, in turn, negatively affect our liquidity, financial condition or results of operations.. Our business is dependent on our and third parties' communications and information systems. Any failure or interruption of those systems, including as a result of the termination of an agreement with any third-party service providers, could cause delays or other problems in our activities. Our financial, accounting, data processing, backup or other operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled or damaged as a result of a number of factors including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control. There could be:. • sudden electrical or telecommunications outages;. • natural disasters such as earthquakes, tornadoes and hurricanes;. 10. Table of Contents. • disease pandemics;. • events arising from local or larger scale political or social matters, including terrorist acts; and. • cyber-attacks.. These events, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and negatively affect the net asset value of our common stock and our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders.. In addition, increased reliance on internet-based programs and applications to conduct transactions and store data creates growing operational and security risks. Targeted cyber-attacks or accidental events can lead to breaches in computer and data systems security, and subsequent unauthorized access to sensitive transactional and personal information held or maintained by us, our affiliates, and third party service providers or counterparties. Any breaches that occur could result in a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality, or privacy of sensitive data, including personal information relating to investors and the beneficial owners of investors, and may lead to theft, data corruption, or overall disruption in operational systems. Criminals may use data taken in breaches in identity theft, obtaining loans or payments under false identities and other crimes that have the potential to affect the value of assets in which we invests. These risks have the potential to disrupt our ability to engage in transactions, cause direct financial loss and reputational damage or lead to violations of applicable laws related to data and privacy protection and consumer protection. Cybersecurity risks also necessitate ongoing prevention and compliance costs.. We, our affiliates, and their respective third-party service providers could be negatively impacted by cybersecurity attacks which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, business or results of operations.. We, our affiliates, and their respective third-party service providers may use a variety of information technology systems in the ordinary course of business, which are potentially vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses and cyber-attacks, including attacks to our information technology infrastructure and attempts by others to gain access to our propriety or sensitive information, and ranging from individual attempts to advanced persistent threats. The procedures and controls we use to monitor these threats and mitigate our exposure may not be sufficient to prevent cybersecurity incidents. The results of these incidents could include misstated financial data, theft of trade secrets or other intellectual property, liability for disclosure of confidential information, increased costs arising from the implementation of additional protective measures, litigation and reputational damage, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, business or results of operations.. We are exposed to risks resulting from the current low interest rate environment.. Since we will borrow money to make investments, our net investment income depends, in part, upon the difference between the rate at which we borrow funds and the rate at which we invest those funds. The current low interest rate environment can, depending on our cost of capital, depress our net investment income, even though the terms of our investments generally will include a minimum interest rate. In addition, any reduction in the level of interest rates on new investments relative to interest rates on our current investments could adversely impact our net investment income, reducing our ability to service the interest obligations on, and to repay the principal of, our indebtedness, as well as our capacity to pay distributions. Any such developments would result in a decline in our net asset value and in net asset value per share. Floating interest rate investments tied to certain indices that tend to lag behind the market may perform better in a falling interest rate environment, while floating interest rate investments tied to other indices, such as LIBOR, may do better in a rising rate environment. Not all investments perform alike under different interest rate scenarios. Generally, our variable interest rate debt investments provide for interest payments based on three-month LIBOR (the base rate) and typically, every three months, the base rates are reset to then prevailing three-month LIBOR.. Uncertainty with respect to the financial stability of the United States and several countries in the European Union (EU) could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In August 2011, Standard & Poor's Rating Services (\"S&P\") lowered its long-term sovereign credit rating on the U.S. from \"AAA\" to \"AA+,\" which was last affirmed by S&P in November 2016. Moody's and Fitch Ratings, Inc. have also warned that they may downgrade the U.S. federal government's credit rating. In addition, the economic downturn and the significant government interventions into the financial markets and fiscal stimulus spending over the last several years have contributed to significantly increased U.S. budget deficits. The U.S. government has on several occasions adopted legislation to suspend the federal debt ceiling to allow the U.S. Treasury Department to issue additional debt. Further downgrades or warnings by S&P or other rating agencies, and the U.S. government's credit and deficit concerns in general, including issues around the federal debt ceiling, could cause interest rates and borrowing costs to rise, which may negatively impact both the perception of credit risk associated with our debt portfolio and our ability to access the debt markets on favorable terms. Furthermore, in February 2014, the Federal Reserve began scaling back its bond-buying program, or quantitative easing, which it ended in October 2014. Quantitative easing was designed to stimulate the economy and expand the Federal Reserve's holdings of long-term securities until key economic indicators, such as the unemployment rate, showed signs of improvement. The Federal Reserve also raised interest rates during the fourth quarter of 2015 and the fourth quarter of 2016. It is unclear. 11. Table of Contents. what effect, if any, the end of quantitative easing, future interest rate raises, if any, and the pace of any such raises will have on the value of our investments or our ability to access the debt markets on favorable terms.. In 2010, a financial crisis emerged in Europe, triggered by high budget deficits and rising direct and contingent sovereign debt in Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain, which created concerns about the ability of these nations to continue to service their sovereign debt obligations. In January 2012, S&P lowered its long-term sovereign credit rating for France, Italy, Spain and six other European countries, which has negatively impacted global markets and economic conditions. In addition, in April 2012, S&P further lowered its long-term sovereign credit rating for Spain. While the financial stability of such countries has improved, risks resulting from any future debt crisis in Europe or any similar crisis could have a detrimental impact on the global economic recovery, sovereign and non-sovereign debt in these countries and the financial condition of U.S. and European financial institutions. Furthermore, following the United Kingdom's referendum to leave the European Union, S&P lowered its long-term sovereign credit rating. In addition the terms of the United Kingdom's exit and any future referendums in other European countries may disrupt the global market. Market disruptions in Europe, including the increased cost of funding for certain governments and financial institutions, could negatively impact the global economy, and there can be no assurance that assistance packages will be available, or if available, will be sufficient to stabilize countries and markets in Europe. To the extent uncertainty regarding any economic recovery in Europe negatively impacts consumer confidence levels and spending, personal bankruptcy rates, levels of incurrence and default on consumer debt and home prices, or other credit factors, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be significantly and adversely affected.. Future disruptions or instability in capital markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. From time to time, the global capital markets may experience periods of disruption and instability, which could materially and adversely impact the broader financial and credit markets and reduce the availability to us of debt and equity capital. For example, between 2008 and 2009, instability in the global capital markets resulted in disruptions in liquidity in the debt capital markets, significant write-offs in the financial services sector, the repricing of credit risk in the broadly syndicated credit market, the failure of major domestic and international financial institutions and a response from the U.S. Federal Reserve of lowering interest rates and quantitative easing. While market conditions have experienced relative stability and substantial growth in recent years, there have been continuing periods of volatility and there can be no assurance that adverse market conditions will not repeat themselves in the future which may require similar, or more experimental action by the U.S. Federal Reserve, such as negative interest rates. Global capital markets are sensitive to U.S. domestic and international economic conditions, social and political tensions, military conflict, and terrorism, including the financial stability of EU countries, perceived or actual downturns in China's economy, further and sustained depreciation in the price of oil, and political and social unrest and military conflict in the Middle East.. We monitor U.S. and global developments and seek to manage our investments in a manner consistent with achieving our investment objectives, however, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in doing so. The re-appearance of market conditions similar to those experienced from 2008 through 2009 for any substantial length of time could lead to increased market volatility and tighter credit markets, which could make it difficult to extend the maturity of or refinance our existing indebtedness or obtain new indebtedness with similar terms. Significant changes or volatility in the capital markets may also have a negative effect on the valuations of our investments. While most of our investments will not be publicly traded, applicable accounting standards require us to assume as part of our valuation process that our investments are sold in a principal market to market participants (even if we plan on holding an investment through its maturity) and impairments of the market values or fair market values of our investments, even if unrealized, must be reflected in our financial statements for the applicable period, which could result in significant reductions to our net asset value for the period. With certain limited exceptions, we are only allowed to borrow amounts or issue debt securities if our asset coverage, as calculated pursuant to the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% immediately after such borrowing. Equity capital may also be difficult to raise during periods of adverse or volatile market conditions because, subject to some limited exceptions, as a business development company, we are generally not able to issue additional shares of our common stock at a price less than net asset value without first obtaining approval for such issuance from our shareholders and our independent directors. If we are unable to raise capital or refinance existing debt on acceptable terms, then we may be limited in our ability to make new commitments or to fund existing commitments to our portfolio companies. Significant changes in the capital markets may also affect the pace of our investment activity and the potential for liquidity events involving our investments. Thus, the illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments to access capital if required, and as a result, we could realize significantly less than the value at which we have recorded our investments if we were required to sell them for liquidity purposes.. The impact on us of recent financial reform legislation, including the Dodd-Frank Act, is uncertain.. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, as amended, or the Dodd-Frank Act enacted in July 2010, instituted a wide range of reforms that will have an impact on financial institutions. Many of the requirements called for in the Dodd-Frank Act remain to be implemented. However, the new presidential administration has announced its intention to repeal, amend or replace certain portions of Dodd-Frank and the regulations implemented thereunder. Given the uncertainty. 12. Table of Contents. associated with the manner in which and whether the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will be implemented, repealed, amended or replaced, the full impact such requirements will have on our business, results of operations or financial condition is unclear. The changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act or any changes to the regulations already implemented thereunder may require us to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make necessary changes in order to comply with new statutory and regulatory requirements. Failure to comply with any such laws, regulations or principles, or changes thereto, may negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. While we cannot predict what effect any changes in the laws or regulations or their interpretations would have on us as a result of recent financial reform legislation, these changes could be materially adverse to us and our shareholders.. The impact of recently enacted federal tax legislation on us, our shareholders and our investments is uncertain.. Significant U.S. federal tax reform legislation was recently enacted that, among other things, permanently reduces the maximum federal corporate income tax rate, reduces the maximum individual income tax rate (effective for taxable years 2018 through 2025), restricts the deductibility of business interest expense, changes the rules regarding the calculation of net operating loss deductions that may be used to offset taxable income, expands the circumstances in which a foreign corporation will be treated as a \"controlled foreign corporation\" and, under certain circumstances, requires accrual method taxpayers to recognize income for U.S. federal income tax purposes no later than the income is taken into account as revenue in an applicable financial statement. The impact of this new legislation on us, our shareholders and entities in which we may invest is uncertain. Prospective investors are urged to consult their tax advisers regarding the effects of the new legislation on an investment in us.. We may invest in European companies and companies that have operations that may be affected by the Eurozone economy.. We may invest in European companies and companies that have operations that may be affected by the Eurozone economy. For example, concerns regarding the sovereign debt of various Eurozone countries and proposals for investors to incur substantial write-downs and reductions in the face value of certain countries' sovereign debt have given rise to new concerns about sovereign defaults, following the vote by the United Kingdom to leave the EU and the possibility that one or more further countries might leave the EU or the Eurozone and various proposals (still under consideration and unclear in material respects) for support of affected countries and the Euro as a currency. The outcome of this situation cannot yet be predicted. Sovereign debt defaults and EU and/or Eurozone exits, could have material adverse effects on our investments in European companies, including but not limited to the availability of credit to support such companies' financing needs, uncertainty and disruption in relation to financing, customer and supply contracts denominated in the Euro and wider economic disruption in markets served by those companies, while austerity and other measures introduced in order to limit or contain these issues may themselves lead to economic contraction and resulting adverse effects for us. It is possible that a number of our securities will be denominated in the Euro. Greece, Ireland and Portugal received one or more \"bailouts\" from other members of the EU. Although several countries in the Eurozone have agreed to multi-year bailout loans with the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund, it is unclear how much additional funding these countries, or other Eurozone countries, will require. Legal uncertainty about the funding of Euro denominated obligations following any breakup or exits from the Eurozone (particularly in the case of investments in companies in affected countries) could also have material adverse effects on us.. On June 23, 2016, the United Kingdom voted, via referendum, to exit from the EU, triggering political, economic and legal uncertainty. While such uncertainty most directly affects the United Kingdom and the EU, global markets suffered immediate and significant disruption. On March 29, 2017, the United Kingdom made a formal notification to the European Council under Article 50 of the Treaty on EU, which triggers a two year period during which the terms of an exit will be negotiated. The United Kingdom and the EU are therefore entering a period of legal, regulatory and political uncertainty. The United Kingdom's exit from the EU will impact us and our investments (and their underlying issuers) in a variety of ways, not all of which are currently readily apparent immediately following the exit vote. We may invest in portfolio companies and other issuers with significant operations and/or assets in the United Kingdom, any of which could be adversely impacted by any new legal, tax and regulatory environment, whether by increased costs or impediments to the implementation of their business plan. Further, the vote by the United Kingdom to leave the EU may increase the likelihood of similar referenda in other member states of the EU, which could result in additional departures from the EU and may trigger steps by countries within the United Kingdom to leave the United Kingdom. The uncertainty resulting from any such developments, or the possibility of such developments, would also be likely to cause significant market disruption in the EU and the United Kingdom and more broadly across the global economy, as well as introduce further legal, tax and regulatory uncertainty in the EU and the United Kingdom.. Economic sanction laws in the United States and other jurisdictions may prohibit us and our affiliates from transacting with certain countries, individuals and companies.. Economic sanction laws in the United States and other jurisdictions may prohibit us or our affiliates from transacting with certain countries, individuals and companies. In the United States, the U.S. Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control (\"OFAC\") administers and enforces laws, executive orders and regulations establishing U.S.. 13. Table of Contents. economic and trade sanctions, which prohibit, among other things, transactions with, and the provision of services to, certain non-U.S. countries, territories, entities and individuals. These types of sanctions may significantly restrict or completely prohibit investment activities in certain jurisdictions, and if we, our portfolio companies or other issuers in which we invest were to violate any such laws or regulations, we may face significant legal and monetary penalties.. The FCPA and other anti-corruption laws and regulations, as well as anti-boycott regulations, may also apply to and restrict our activities, our portfolio companies and other issuers of their investments. If an issuer or we were to violate any such laws or regulations, such issuer or we may face significant legal and monetary penalties. The U.S. government has indicated that it is particularly focused on FCPA enforcement, which may increase the risk that an issuer or we becomes the subject of such actual or threatened enforcement. In addition, certain commentators have suggested that private investment firms and the funds that they manage may face increased scrutiny and/or liability with respect to the activities of their underlying portfolio companies. As such, a violation of the FCPA or other applicable regulations by us or an issuer of our portfolio investments could have a material adverse effect on us. We are committed to complying with the FCPA and other anti-corruption laws and regulations, as well as anti-boycott regulations, to which they are subject. As a result, we may be adversely affected because of our unwillingness to enter into transactions that violate any such laws or regulations.. Future legislation or rules could modify how we treat derivatives and other financial arrangements for purposes of our compliance with the leverage limitations of the 1940 Act.. Future legislation or rules may modify how we treat derivatives and other financial arrangements for purposes of our compliance with the leverage limitations of the 1940 Act. For example, the SEC proposed a new rule in December 2015 that was designed to enhance the regulation of the use of derivatives by registered investments companies and business development companies. While the adoption of the proposed rule is currently uncertain, the proposed rule, if adopted, or any future legislation or rules, may modify how leverage is calculated under the 1940 Act and, therefore, may increase or decrease the amount of leverage currently available to us under the 1940 Act, which may be materially adverse to us and our shareholders.. As a public company, we are subject to regulations not applicable to private companies, such as provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Efforts to comply with such regulations will involve significant expenditures, and non-compliance with such regulations may adversely affect us.. As a public company, we incur legal, accounting and other expenses, including costs associated with the periodic reporting requirements applicable to a company whose securities are registered under the Exchange Act, as well as additional corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and other rules implemented by the SEC and the listing standards of the NYSE. Our management is required to report on our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and rules and regulations of the SEC thereunder. In particular, our management is required to review on an annual basis our internal control over financial reporting, and on a quarterly and annual basis to evaluate and disclose changes in our internal control over financial reporting. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act also generally requires an attestation from our independent registered public accounting firm on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting.. We incur significant expenses in connection with our compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other regulations applicable to public companies, which may negatively impact our financial performance and our ability to make distributions. Compliance with such regulations also requires a significant amount of our management's time and attention. For example, we cannot be certain as to the timing of the completion of our Sarbanes-Oxley mandated evaluations, testings and remediation actions, if any, or the impact of the same on our operations, and we may not be able to ensure that the process is effective or that our internal control over financial reporting are or will be deemed effective in the future. In the event that we are unable to maintain an effective system of internal control and maintain compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related rules, we may be adversely affected.. Our business and operations could be negatively affected if we become subject to shareholder activism, which could cause us to incur significant expense, hinder the execution of our investment strategy or impact our stock price.. Shareholder activism, which could take many forms or arise in a variety of situations, has been increasing in the business development company space recently. While we are currently not subject to any shareholder activism, due to the potential volatility of our stock price and for a variety of other reasons, we may in the future become the target of shareholder activism. Shareholder activism could result in substantial costs and divert management's and our Board's attention and resources from our business. Additionally, such shareholder activism could give rise to perceived uncertainties as to our future and adversely affect our relationships with service providers and our portfolio companies. Also, we may be required to incur significant legal and other expenses related to any activist shareholder matters. Further, our stock price could be subject to significant fluctuation or otherwise be adversely affected by the events, risks and uncertainties of any shareholder activism.. 14. Table of Contents. If the Company can no longer satisfy the conditions of Letter 12-40 (as defined below) issued by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the \"CFTC\"), the Company and KKR could be subject to additional regulatory requirements.. The Company has claimed relief available under a no-action letter (\"Letter 12-40\") issued by the staff of the CFTC. Letter 12-40 relieves KKR from registering with the CFTC as the commodity pool operator (\"CPO\") of the Company, provided that the Company (i) continues to be regulated by the SEC as a BDC, (ii) allocates no more than a designated percentage of its liquidation value to futures contracts, certain swap contracts and certain other derivative instruments that are within the jurisdiction of the Commodity Exchange Act (collectively, \"CEA-regulated products\"), and (iii) is not marketed to the public as a commodity pool or as a vehicle for trading in CEA-regulated products. If the Company can no longer satisfy the conditions of Letter 12-40, KKR could be subject to the CFTC's CPO registration requirements, and the disclosure and operations of the Company would need to comply with all applicable regulations governing commodity pools and CPOs. If KKR were required to register as a CPO, it would also be required to become a member of the National Futures Association (\"NFA\") and be subject to the NFA's rules and bylaws. Compliance with these additional registration and regulatory requirements may increase KKR's operating expenses, which, in turn, could result in the Company's investors being charged additional fees.. Risks Related to KKR and its Affiliates. KKR and its affiliates have limited experience managing a business development company.. KKR and its affiliates have less than one year of experience serving as the sole investment adviser of a business development company and six years of experience sub-advising a vehicle regulated as a business development company and may not be able to continue to operate our business successfully or achieve our investment objective. As a result, an investment in our securities may entail more risk than the securities of a comparable company with a substantial operating history.. The 1940 Act and the Code impose numerous constraints on the operations of business development companies and RICs that do not apply to the other types of investment vehicles previously managed by KKR and its affiliates. For example, under the 1940 Act, business development companies are generally required to invest at least 70% of their total assets primarily in securities of qualifying U.S. private or thinly traded companies. Moreover, qualification for RIC tax treatment under subchapter M of the Code requires satisfaction of source-of-income, asset diversification and other requirements. Any failure by us to comply with these provisions could prevent us from maintaining our qualification as a business development company or RIC or could force us to pay unexpected taxes and penalties, which could be material. KKR's and its affiliates' limited experience in managing a portfolio of assets under such constraints may hinder its ability to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities and, as a result, achieve our investment objective.. We may not replicate our historical performance or the historical success of KKR.. We cannot provide any assurance that we will replicate our own historical performance, the historical success of KKR or the historical performance of other companies that KKR and/or its affiliates have advised in the past. Accordingly, our investment returns could be substantially lower than the returns achieved by the Company in the past, other KKR managed funds or by other clients of KKR and/or its affiliates. We can offer no assurance that KKR will be able to continue to implement our investment objective with the same degree of success as it has had in the past.. KKR and its affiliates, including our officers and some of our directors, may face conflicts of interest caused by compensation arrangements with us and our affiliates, which could result in increased risk-taking by us.. KKR and its affiliates will receive substantial fees from us in return for their services, including certain incentive fees based on the amount of appreciation of our investments. These fees could influence the advice provided to us. Generally, the more equity we sell in public offerings and the greater the risk assumed by us with respect to our investments, the greater the potential for growth in our assets and profits (and, correlatively, the fees payable by us to KKR). These compensation arrangements could affect KKR's or its affiliates' judgment with respect to public offerings of equity and investments made by us, which allow KKR to earn increased asset management fees.. The time and resources that individuals associated with KKR devote to us may be diverted, and we may face additional competition due to the fact that KKR is not prohibited from raising money for or managing other entities that make the same types of investments that we target.. KKR and its affiliates currently manage other investment entities and are not prohibited from raising money for and managing future investment entities that make the same types of investments as those we target. As a result, the time and resources that KKR devotes to us may be diverted, and during times of intense activity in other programs it may devote less time and resources to our business than is necessary or appropriate. In addition, we may compete with any such investment entity for the same investors and investment opportunities.. 15. Table of Contents. KKR will experience conflicts of interest in connection with the management of our business affairs.. KKR will experience conflicts of interest in connection with the management of our business affairs, including relating to the allocation of investment opportunities by KKR and its affiliates; compensation to KKR; services that may be provided by KKR and its affiliates to issuers in which we invest; investments by us and other clients of KKR, subject to the limitations of the 1940 Act; the formation of additional investment funds by KKR; differing recommendations given by KKR to us versus other clients; KKR's use of information gained from issuers in our portfolio for investments by other clients, subject to applicable law; and restrictions on KKR's use of \"inside information\" with respect to potential investments by us.. KKR and its affiliates may experience conflicts of interest in connection with the negotiation of arranging and other transaction-related fees paid by our portfolio companies.. In negotiating originated loans and certain other originated credit investments on our behalf, KKR and its affiliates may have the ability to negotiate the payment of arranging and other transaction-related fees by the relevant counterparty to KKR and its affiliates and/or an original issue discount (\"OID\"). In such circumstances, KKR will face a conflict of interest to the extent that a portion of any arranging or transaction-related fees payable to KKR and its affiliates may be retained by KKR and its affiliates, whereas any OID provided by the relevant counterparty would solely benefit us.. KKR may face conflicts of interest with respect to services performed for issuers in which we invest.. KKR and its affiliates may provide a broad range of financial services to companies in which we invest, in compliance with applicable law, and will generally be paid fees for such services. In addition, affiliates of KKR may act as underwriters or placement agents in connection with an offering of securities by one of the companies in our portfolio. Any compensation received by KKR for providing these services will not be shared with us and may be received before we realize a return on our investment. KKR may face conflicts of interest with respect to services performed for these companies, on the one hand, and investments recommended to us, on the other hand. Depending on the nature and magnitude of the fees, we could perform these services through a taxable subsidiary.. KKR has incentives to favor its other accounts and clients over us, which may result in conflicts of interest that could be harmful to us.. Because KKR and its affiliates manage assets for other investment companies, pooled investment vehicles and/or other accounts (including institutional clients, pension plans and certain high net worth individuals), certain conflicts of interest are present. For instance, KKR and its affiliates may receive fees from certain accounts that are higher than the fees received by KKR from us, or receive a performance-based fee on certain accounts. In those instances, a portfolio manager for KKR has an incentive to favor the higher fee and/or performance-based fee accounts over us. In addition, a conflict of interest exists to the extent KKR has proprietary investments in certain accounts, where its portfolio managers or other employees have personal investments in certain accounts, or when certain accounts are investment options in KKR's employee benefit plans. KKR has an incentive to favor these accounts over us. Our Board monitors these conflicts.. Misconduct by employees of KKR or by third-party service providers could cause significant losses to us.. Misconduct by employees of KKR or by third-party service providers could cause significant losses to us. Employee misconduct may include binding us to transactions that exceed authorized limits or present unacceptable risks and unauthorized investment activities or concealing unsuccessful investment activities (which, in either case, may result in unknown and unmanaged risks or losses). Losses could also result from actions by third-party service providers, including, without limitation, failing to recognize trades and misappropriating assets. In addition, employees and third-party service providers may improperly use or disclose confidential information, which could result in litigation or serious financial harm, including limiting our business prospects or future marketing activities. No assurances can be given that the due diligence performed by KKR will identify or prevent any such misconduct.. KKR's actions on behalf of its other accounts and clients may be adverse to us and our investments and harmful to us.. KKR and its affiliates manage assets for accounts other than us, including private funds (for purposes of this section, \"Advisor Funds\"). Actions taken by KKR on behalf of its Advisor Funds may be adverse to us and our investments which could harm our performance. For example, we may invest in the same credit obligations as other Advisor Funds, although, to the extent permitted under the 1940 Act, our investments may include different obligations of the same issuer. Decisions made with respect to the securities held by one Advisor Fund may cause (or have the potential to cause) harm to a different class of securities of the issuer held by other Advisor Funds (including us). As a further example, KKR may manage accounts that engage in short sales of (or otherwise take short positions in) securities or other instruments of the type in which we invest, which could harm our performance for the benefit of the accounts taking short positions, if such short positions cause the market value of the securities to fall.. 16. Table of Contents. Our access to confidential information may restrict our ability to take action with respect to some investments, which, in turn, may negatively affect our results of operations.. We, directly or through KKR, may obtain confidential information about the companies in which we have invested or may invest. If we possess confidential information about such companies, there may be restrictions on our ability to make, dispose of, increase the amount of, or otherwise take action with respect to, an investment in those companies. The impact of these restrictions on our ability to take action with respect to our investments could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. KKR currently serves as an investment sub-adviser to one other business development company with substantially the same investment objectives and strategies as ours and KKR and its affiliates may in the future serve as an adviser to other business development companies with substantially the same investment objective and strategies, thereby subjecting KKR and its affiliates to actual and potential conflicts of interests in connection with the management of our business affairs.. The members of the senior management and investment teams of KKR and certain of its affiliates are presently, and plan in the future to continue to be, involved with activities which are unrelated to us, including serving as officers, directors or principals of entities that operate in the same or a related line of business as us. For example, KKR's senior management and investment teams and other KKR personnel also serve in similar capacities for Corporate Capital Trust II, a business development company sub-advised by KKR. By serving in these multiple capacities, the senior management and investment teams may have obligations to Corporate Capital Trust II and/or other entities, and to the investors of such entities, which may conflict with our best interests or the best interest of our shareholders. For instance, we rely on KKR to manage our day-to-day activities and to implement our investment strategy. As a result of these activities, KKR, its senior management, investment team and other personnel, and certain of KKR's affiliates may have conflicts of interest in allocating their time between us and the other activities in which they are or may become involved, including the management of Corporate Capital Trust II and other entities affiliated with KKR.. Furthermore, our investment objectives overlap with those of Corporate Capital Trust II, and may overlap with the investment objectives of other clients and affiliates of KKR, subjecting KKR to additional conflicts of interest. For example, we may compete for investments with Corporate Capital Trust II, thereby subjecting KKR and its affiliates to certain conflicts of interest with respect to evaluating the suitability of investment opportunities and making or recommending acquisitions on our behalf. To mitigate these conflicts, KKR will seek to execute such transactions for all of the participating investment accounts, including us, on a fair and equitable basis and in accordance with its allocation policies, taking into account such factors as the relative amounts of capital available for new investments, the investment programs and portfolio positions of the participating investment accounts, the clients for which participation is appropriate, and any other factors deemed appropriate.. There can be no assurance that the proposed investment co-advisory agreements or the joint adviser investment advisory agreement with KKR, FB Income Advisor, LLC, or FS Investments, as applicable, will receive shareholder approval or go into effect. The failure of such investment advisory agreements to go into effect could adversely affect our stock price, business, financial condition, results of operations or ability to achieve our investment objective.. On January 23, 2018, we filed a definitive proxy statement soliciting shareholder approval of certain co-advisory agreements and the joint adviser investment advisory agreement, each of which would replace the current Investment Advisory Agreement. The effectiveness of the investment co-advisory agreements and joint adviser investment advisory agreement is subject to various conditions, including shareholder approval thereof. If any of these conditions are not satisfied or (to the extent permitted) waived, the investment co-advisory agreements and/or the joint adviser investment advisory agreement may not go into effect. There can be no assurance that the investment co-advisory agreements or the joint adviser investment advisory agreement will become effective. As a result, the failure of the investment co-advisory agreements and/or the joint adviser investment advisory agreement to go into effect could adversely affect our stock price, business, financial condition, results of operations or ability to achieve our investment objective.. KKR has adopted restrictions on its use of inside information about existing or potential investments that its personnel acquires through their relationships with other advisory clients, and those restrictions may limit the freedom of KKR to enter into or exit from investments for us, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. In the course of their respective duties, the members, officers, directors, employees, principals or affiliates of KKR may come into possession of material, non-public information. The possession of such information may, to our detriment, limit the ability of KKR to buy or sell a security or otherwise to participate in an investment opportunity for us. In certain circumstances, employees of KKR may serve as board members or in other capacities for portfolio or potential portfolio companies, which could restrict our ability to trade in the securities of such companies. For example, if personnel of KKR come into possession of material non-public information with respect to our investments, such personnel will be restricted by KKR's information-sharing policies and procedures or by law or contract from sharing such information with our management team, even where the disclosure of such information would be in our best interests or would otherwise influence decisions taken by the members of the management team with respect to that investment. This conflict and these procedures and practices. 17. Table of Contents. may limit the freedom of KKR to enter into or exit from potentially profitable investments for us which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to fully leverage the resources and industry expertise of KKR's other businesses. Additionally, there may be circumstances in which one or more individuals associated with KKR will be precluded from providing services to us because of certain confidential information available to those individuals or to other parts of KKR.. We may be obligated to pay KKR incentive fees even if we incur a net decrease in net assets resulting from operations due to a decline in the value of our portfolio and even if our earned interest income is not payable in cash.. Our Investment Advisory Agreement entitles KKR to receive an incentive fee based on our pre-incentive fee net investment income regardless of any capital losses. In such case, we may be required to pay KKR an incentive fee for a fiscal quarter even if there is a decline in the value of our portfolio or if we incur a net decrease in net assets resulting from operations for that quarter.. Any incentive fee payable by us that relates to our pre-incentive fee net investment income may be computed and paid on income that may include interest that has been accrued but not yet received or interest in the form of securities received rather than cash (\"payment-in-kind,\" or \"PIK,\" income). If a portfolio company defaults on a loan that is structured to provide accrued interest income, it is possible that accrued interest income previously included in the calculation of the incentive fee will become uncollectible. KKR is not obligated to reimburse us for any part of the incentive fee it received that was based on accrued interest income that we never received as a result of a subsequent default. PIK income will be included in the pre-incentive fee net investment income used to calculate the incentive fee to KKR even though we do not receive the income in the form of cash.. The quarterly incentive fee on income is recognized and paid without regard to: (i) the trend of pre-incentive fee net investment income as a percent of adjusted capital over multiple quarters in arrears which may in fact be consistently less than the preference return, or (ii) the net income or net loss in the current calendar quarter, the current year or any combination of prior periods.. For federal income tax purposes, we may be required to recognize taxable income in some circumstances in which we do not receive a corresponding payment in cash and to make distributions with respect to such income to maintain our status as a RIC and/or minimize excise tax. Under such circumstances, we may have difficulty meeting the annual distribution requirement necessary to maintain RIC tax treatment under the Code. This difficulty in making the required distribution may be amplified to the extent that we are required to pay a subordinated incentive fee on income with respect to such accrued income. As a result, we may have to sell some of our investments at times and/or at prices we would not consider advantageous, raise additional debt or equity capital, or forgo new investment opportunities for this purpose. If we are not able to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify for RIC tax treatment and thus become subject to corporate-level income tax.. Our incentive fee may induce KKR to make speculative investments.. The incentive fee payable by us to KKR may create an incentive for KKR to make investments on our behalf that are risky or more speculative than would be the case in the absence of such compensation arrangements. The way in which the incentive fee is determined may encourage KKR to use leverage to increase the leveraged return on our investment portfolio.. In addition, the fact that our base management fee is payable based upon our average gross assets (which includes any borrowings for investment purposes or any unrealized depreciation) may encourage KKR to use leverage to make additional investments. Such a practice could result in our investing in more speculative securities than would otherwise be the case, which could result in higher investment losses, particularly during cyclical economic downturns. Under certain circumstances, the use of substantial leverage may increase the likelihood of our defaulting on our borrowings, which would be detrimental to holders of our securities.. Our ability to enter into transactions with our affiliates is restricted.. We are prohibited under the 1940 Act from participating in certain transactions with certain of our affiliates without the prior approval of a majority of our independent directors and, in some cases, the SEC. Any person that owns, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of our outstanding voting securities will be our affiliate for purposes of the 1940 Act, and we will generally be prohibited from buying or selling any securities from or to such affiliate on a principal basis, absent the prior approval of our Board and, in some cases, the SEC. The 1940 Act also prohibits certain \"joint\" transactions with certain of our affiliates, which in certain circumstances could include investments in the same portfolio company (whether at the same or different times to the extent the transaction involves a joint investment), without prior approval of our Board and, in some cases, the SEC. If a person acquires more than 25% of our voting securities, we will be prohibited from buying or selling any security from or to such person or certain of that person's affiliates, or entering into prohibited joint transactions with such persons, absent the prior approval of the SEC. Similar restrictions limit our ability to transact business with our officers or directors or their affiliates. The SEC has interpreted the business development company regulations governing transactions with affiliates to prohibit certain joint transactions involving entities that share a common investment adviser. As a result of these. 18. Table of Contents. restrictions, we may be prohibited from buying or selling any security from or to any portfolio company that is controlled by a fund managed by KKR or its affiliates without the prior approval of the SEC, which may limit the scope of investment opportunities that would otherwise be available to us.. We may, however, invest alongside KKR's and its affiliates' other clients, including other entities it manages, which we refer to as affiliates' other clients, in certain circumstances when doing so is consistent with applicable law and SEC staff interpretations and guidance. We may also invest alongside the other clients of KKR, as otherwise permissible under regulatory guidance, applicable regulations and KKR's allocation policies. It is our policy to base our Board's determinations as to the amount of capital available for investment are based on such factors as: the amount of cash on-hand, existing commitments and reserves, the targeted leverage level, the targeted asset mix and diversification requirements and other investment policies and restrictions set by our Board or imposed by applicable laws, rules, regulations or interpretations. However, there can be no assurance that investment opportunities will be allocated to us fairly or equitably in the short-term or over time.. The SEC Exemptive Order granted by the SEC to us, KKR and certain of its affiliates, permits us to participate in certain transactions originated by KKR or its affiliates. However, affiliates of KKR whose primary business includes the origination of investments may engage in investment advisory businesses with client accounts that compete with us, and those affiliates have no obligation to make their originated investment opportunities available to KKR or to us.. In situations when co-investment with affiliates' other clients is not permitted under the 1940 Act and related rules, existing or future staff guidance, or the terms and conditions of exemptive relief granted to us by the SEC (as discussed above), KKR will need to decide which client or clients will proceed with the investment. Generally, we will not have an entitlement to make a co-investment in these circumstances and, to the extent that another client elects to proceed with the investment, we will not be permitted to participate. Moreover, except in certain circumstances, we are unable to invest in any issuer in whom an affiliate's other client holds a controlling interest.. We may make investments that could give rise to a conflict of interest.. We do not expect to invest in, or hold securities of, companies that are controlled by affiliates' other clients. However, an affiliates' other clients may invest in, and gain control over, one of our portfolio companies. If an affiliates' other client, or clients, gains control over one of our portfolio companies, it may create conflicts of interest and may subject us to certain restrictions under the 1940 Act. As a result of these conflicts and restrictions KKR may be unable to implement our investment strategies as effectively as it could have in the absence of such conflicts or restrictions. For example, as a result of a conflict or restriction, KKR may be unable to engage in certain transactions that it would otherwise pursue. In order to avoid these conflicts and restrictions, KKR may choose to exit such investments prematurely and, as a result, we would forego any positive returns associated with such investments. In addition, to the extent that an affiliates' other client holds a different class of securities than us as a result of such transactions, our interests may not be aligned.. The recommendations given to us by KKR may differ from those rendered by KKR to its other clients.. KKR and its affiliates may give advice and recommend securities to other clients which may differ from advice given to, or securities recommended or bought for, us even though such other clients' investment objectives may be similar to ours.. We are not managed by KKR & Co., but rather a subsidiary of KKR & Co. and may not replicate the success of KKR & Co.. We are managed by KKR and not by KKR & Co. Our performance may be lower or higher than the performance of other entities managed by KKR & Co. or its affiliates and their past performance is no guarantee of our future results.. KKR's liability is limited under the Investment Advisory Agreement, and we are required to indemnify KKR against certain liabilities, which may lead KKR to act in a riskier manner on our behalf than it would when acting for its own account.. KKR has not assumed any responsibility to us other than to render the services described in the New Investment Advisory Agreement, and it will not be responsible for any action of our Board in declining to follow KKR's advice or recommendations. Pursuant to the New Investment Advisory Agreement, KKR and its directors, officers, shareholders, members, agents, employees, controlling persons, and any other person or entity affiliated with, or acting on behalf of KKR will not be liable to us for their acts under the New Investment Advisory Agreement, absent willful misfeasance, bad faith, gross negligence or reckless disregard in the performance of their duties. We have also agreed to indemnify, defend and protect KKR and its directors, officers, shareholders, members, agents, employees, controlling persons and any other person or entity affiliated with, or acting on behalf of KKR with respect to all damages, liabilities, costs and expenses resulting from acts of KKR not arising out of willful misfeasance, bad faith, gross negligence or reckless disregard in the performance of their duties. These protections may lead KKR to act in a riskier manner when acting on our behalf than it would when acting for its own account.. 19. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Business Development Companies. The requirement that we invest a sufficient portion of our assets in qualifying assets could preclude us from investing in accordance with our current business strategy; conversely, the failure to invest a sufficient portion of our assets in qualifying assets could result in our failure to maintain our status as a business development company.. As a business development company, the 1940 Act prohibits us from acquiring any assets other than certain qualifying assets unless, at the time of and after giving effect to such acquisition, at least 70% of our total assets are qualifying assets. Qualifying assets include investments in \"eligible portfolio companies.\" Under the relevant SEC rules, the term \"eligible portfolio company\" includes U.S. operating companies whose securities are not listed on a national securities exchange (i.e., private companies), and certain U.S. public operating companies that have listed their securities on a national securities exchange and have a market capitalization of less than $250 million. Therefore, we may be precluded from investing in what we believe are attractive investments if such investments are not qualifying assets. Conversely, if we fail to invest a sufficient portion of our assets in qualifying assets, we could lose our status as a business development company, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Similarly, these rules could prevent us from making additional investments in existing portfolio companies, which could result in the dilution of our position, or could require us to dispose of investments at an inopportune time to comply with the 1940 Act. If we were forced to sell non-qualifying investments in the portfolio for compliance purposes, the proceeds from such sale could be significantly less than the current value of such investments.. Failure to maintain our status as a business development company would reduce our operating flexibility.. If we do not remain a business development company, we might be regulated as a closed-end investment company under the 1940 Act, which would subject us to substantially more regulatory restrictions and correspondingly decrease our operating flexibility.. Regulations governing our operation as a business development company and RIC affect our ability to raise capital and the way in which we raise additional capital or borrow for investment purposes, which may have a negative effect on our growth. As a business development company, the necessity of raising additional capital may expose us to risks, including risks associated with leverage.. As a result of the annual distribution requirement to qualify as a RIC, we may need to access the capital markets periodically to raise cash to fund new investments in portfolio companies. We may continue to issue \"senior securities,\" including borrowing money from banks or other financial institutions only in amounts such that our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% after such incurrence or issuance. The senior securities we have issued, as well as senior securities we may issue in the future, expose us to risks associated with leverage, including an increased risk of loss. Our ability to issue different types of securities is also limited. Compliance with these distribution requirements may unfavorably limit our investment opportunities and reduce our ability in comparison to other companies to profit from favorable spreads between the rates at which we can borrow and the rates at which we can lend.. We have and may continue to borrow for investment purposes. If the value of our assets declines, we may be unable to satisfy the asset coverage test, which would prohibit us from paying distributions and could prevent us from qualifying as a RIC, which would generally result in a corporate-level tax on any income and net gains. If we cannot satisfy the asset coverage test, we may be required to sell a portion of our investments and, depending on the nature of our debt financing, repay a portion of our indebtedness at a time when such sales may be disadvantageous. Also, any amounts that we use to service our indebtedness would not be available for distributions to our shareholders.. In addition, we anticipate that as market conditions permit, we may securitize our loans to generate cash for funding new investments. To securitize loans, we may create a wholly owned subsidiary, contribute a pool of loans to the subsidiary and have the subsidiary issue primarily investment grade debt securities to purchasers who we would expect to be willing to accept a substantially lower interest rate than the loans earn. We would retain all or a portion of the equity in the securitized pool of loans. Our retained equity would be exposed to any losses on the portfolio of loans before any of the debt securities would be exposed to such losses. Accordingly, if the pool of loans experienced a low level of losses due to defaults, we would earn an incremental amount of income on our retained equity but we would be exposed, up to the amount of equity we retained, to that proportion of any losses we would have experienced if we had continued to hold the loans in our portfolio.. Risks Related to Our Investments. Our investments in portfolio companies may be risky, and we could lose all or part of our indirect investment.. We pursue a strategy focused on investing primarily in the debt of privately owned U.S. companies with a focus on originated transactions sourced through the networks of KKR. Short transaction closing timeframes associated with originated transactions coupled with added tax or accounting structuring complexity and international transactions may result in a higher risk in comparison to non-originated transactions.. 20. Table of Contents. • Senior Debt. When we invest in senior debt, we generally seek to take a security interest in the available assets of the portfolio company, including equity interests in any of its subsidiaries. These investments will generally take the form of senior secured first lien loans, senior secured second lien loans, or senior secured bonds. There is a risk that the collateral securing our investments may decrease in value over time or lose its entire value, may be difficult to sell in a timely manner, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value based upon the success of the business and market conditions, including as a result of the inability of the portfolio company to raise additional capital. Also, in some circumstances, our lien could be subordinated to claims of other creditors. In addition, deterioration in a portfolio company's financial condition and prospects, including its inability to raise additional capital, may be accompanied by deterioration in the value of the collateral for the loan. Consequently, the fact that a loan is secured does not guarantee that we will receive principal and interest payments according to the loan's terms, or at all, or that we will be able to collect on the loan should we decide to enforce our remedies.. • Subordinated Debt. Our subordinated debt investments are generally subordinated to senior debt and are generally unsecured, which may result in a heightened level of risk and volatility or a loss of principal, which could lead to the loss of the entire investment. These investments may involve additional risks that could adversely affect our investment returns as compared to our senior debt investments. To the extent interest payments associated with such debt are deferred, such debt may be subject to greater fluctuations in valuations, and such debt could subject us and our shareholders to non-cash income. Since we will not receive any principal repayments prior to the maturity of some of our subordinated debt investments, such investments will be of greater risk than amortizing loans.. • Equity Investments. Certain investments that we may make may include equity related securities, such as rights and warrants, that may be converted into or exchanged for common stock or the cash value of the common stock. In addition, we may make direct equity investments in portfolio companies. The equity interests we receive may not appreciate in value and, in fact, may decline in value. In addition, when we invest in senior and subordinated debt, we may acquire warrants or options to purchase equity securities or benefit from other types of equity participation. Our goal is ultimately to dispose of these equity interests and realize gains upon our disposition of such interests. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains from our equity interests and any gains that we do realize on the disposition of any equity interests may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience. Depending on the nature of the equity investment, we could invest through a taxable subsidiary which could impact the return on investment. We may also be unable to realize any value if a portfolio company does not have a liquidity event, such as a sale of the business, recapitalization or public offering, which would allow us to sell the underlying equity interests. We may be unable to exercise any put rights we acquire, which grant us the right to sell our equity securities back to the portfolio company, for the consideration provided in our investment documents if the issuer is in financial distress However, the equity interests we receive may not appreciate in value and, in fact, may decline in value.. • Convertible Securities. We may invest in convertible securities, such as bonds, debentures, notes, preferred stocks or other securities that may be converted into, or exchanged for, a specified amount of common stock of the same or different issuer within a particular period of time at a specified price or formula. A convertible security may be subject to redemption at the option of the issuer at a price established in the convertible security's governing instrument. If a convertible security held by us is called for redemption, we will be required to permit the issuer to redeem the security, convert it into the underlying common stock or sell it to a third party. Any of these actions could have an adverse effect on our ability to achieve our investment objective.. • Investments in Private Investment Funds. We may invest in, or wholly own, private investment funds, including hedge funds, private equity funds, limited liability companies, REITs, and other business entities. In valuing our investments in private investment funds, we rely primarily on information provided by managers of such funds. Valuations of illiquid securities, such as interests in certain private investment funds, involve various judgments and consideration of factors that may be subjective. There is a risk that inaccurate valuations provided by managers of private investment funds could adversely affect the value of our common stock. We may not be able to withdraw our investment in certain private investment funds promptly after we have made a decision to do so, which may result in a loss to us and adversely affect our investment returns.. • Derivatives. Derivative investments have risks, including: the imperfect correlation between the value of such instruments and our underlying assets, which creates the possibility that the loss on such instruments may be greater than the gain in the value of the underlying assets in our portfolio; the loss of principal; the possible default of the other party to the transaction; and illiquidity of the derivative investments. If a counterparty becomes bankrupt or otherwise fails to perform its obligations under a derivative contract due to financial difficulties, we may experience significant delays in obtaining any recovery under the derivative contract in a bankruptcy or other reorganization proceeding, or may not recover at all. In addition, in the event of the insolvency of a counterparty to a derivative transaction, the derivative contract would typically be terminated at its fair market value. If we are owed this fair market value in the termination of the derivative contract and our claim is unsecured, we will be treated as a general creditor of such counterparty and will not have any claim with respect to the underlying security. Certain of the derivative investments in which we may invest may, in certain circumstances, give rise to a form of financial leverage, which may magnify the risk of owning such instruments. The ability to successfully use derivative investments. 21. Table of Contents. depends on the ability of KKR to predict pertinent market movements, which cannot be assured. In addition, amounts paid by us as premiums and cash or other assets held in margin accounts with respect to our derivative investments would not be available to us for other investment purposes, which may result in lost opportunities for gain.. The Dodd-Frank Act could, depending on future rulemaking by regulatory agencies, impact the use of derivatives. The Dodd-Frank Act is intended to regulate the over-the-counter (\"OTC\") derivatives market by requiring many derivative transactions to be cleared and traded on an exchange, expanding entity registration requirements, imposing business conduct requirements on dealers and requiring banks to move some derivatives trading units to a non-guaranteed affiliate separate from the deposit-taking bank or divest them altogether. Future rulemaking to implement these requirements could potentially limit or completely restrict our ability to use these instruments as a part of our investment strategy, increase the costs of using these instruments or make them less effective. Limits or restrictions applicable to the counterparties with which we engage in derivative transactions could also prevent us from using these instruments or affect the pricing or other factors relating to these instruments, or may change availability of certain investments. The SEC has also indicated that it may adopt new policies on the use of derivatives by registered investment companies. Such policies could affect the nature and extent of our use of derivatives.. Most debt securities in which we invest will not be rated by any rating agency and, if they were rated, they would be rated as below investment grade quality. Debt securities rated below investment grade, which are often referred to as \"junk\" securities, are generally regarded as having predominantly speculative characteristics and may carry a greater risk with respect to a borrower's capacity to pay interest and repay principal.. The credit ratings of certain of our investments may not be indicative of the actual credit risk of such rated instruments.. Rating agencies rate debt securities based upon their assessment of the likelihood of the receipt of principal and interest payments. Rating agencies do not consider the risks of fluctuations in market value or other factors that may influence the value of debt securities. Therefore, the credit rating assigned to a particular instrument may not fully reflect the true risks of an investment in such instrument. Credit rating agencies may change their methods of evaluating credit risk and determining ratings. These changes may occur quickly and often. While we may give some consideration to ratings, ratings may not be indicative of the actual credit risk of our investments in rated instruments.. A redemption of convertible securities held by us could have an adverse effect on our ability to achieve our investment objective.. A convertible security may be subject to redemption at the option of the issuer at a price established in the convertible security's governing instrument. If a convertible security held by us is called for redemption, we will be required to permit the issuer to redeem the security, convert it into the underlying common stock or sell it to a third party. Any of these actions could have an adverse effect on our ability to achieve our investment objective.. To the extent OID and payment-in-kind (PIK) interest income constitute a portion of our income, we will be exposed to risks associated with the deferred receipt of cash representing such income.. Our investments may include OID and PIK instruments. To the extent OID and PIK constitute a portion of our income, we will be exposed to risks associated with such income being required to be included in income for financial reporting purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (\"GAAP\") and taxable income prior to receipt of cash, including the following:. • OID and PIK instruments may have unreliable valuations because the accruals require judgments about collectibility;. • OID and PIK instruments may create heightened credit risks because the inducement to the borrower to accept higher interest rates in exchange for the deferral of cash payments typically represents, to some extent, speculation on the part of the borrower;. • For GAAP purposes, cash distributions to shareholders that include a component of OID or PIK income are not considered a return of capital, although they may be paid from the offering proceeds. Thus, although a distribution of OID or PIK income may be funded from the cash invested by the shareholders, the 1940 Act does not require that shareholders be given notice of this fact;. • The presence of OID and PIK creates the risk of non-refundable cash payments to KKR in the form of subordinated incentive fees on income based on non-cash OID and PIK income accruals that may never be realized; and. • In the case of PIK \"toggle\" debt, the PIK election has the simultaneous effects of increasing the investment income, thus increasing the potential for realizing incentive fees.. Our portfolio companies may incur debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, our investments in such companies.. We pursue a strategy focused on investing primarily in the debt of privately owned U.S. companies with a focus on originated transactions sourced through the networks of KKR. Our portfolio companies may have, or may be permitted to incur, other debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, the debt in which we invest. By their terms, such debt instruments may entitle. 22. Table of Contents. the holders to receive payment of interest or principal on or before the dates on which we are entitled to receive payments with respect to the debt instruments in which we invest. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of debt instruments ranking senior to our investment in that portfolio company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution. After repaying such senior creditors, such portfolio company may not have any remaining assets to use for repaying its obligation to us. In the case of debt ranking equally with debt instruments in which we invest, we would have to share on an equal basis any distributions with other creditors holding such debt in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company.. If we cannot obtain debt financing or equity capital on acceptable terms, our ability to acquire investments and to expand our operations will be adversely affected.. Any working capital reserves we maintain may not be sufficient for investment purposes, and we may require additional debt financing or equity capital to operate. Pursuant to tax rules that apply to us, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our net ordinary income and net short-term capital gains in excess of net long-term capital losses, if any, to our shareholders to maintain our RIC status. Accordingly, in the event that we need additional capital in the future for investments or for any other reason we may need to access the capital markets periodically to issue debt or equity securities or borrow from financial institutions in order to obtain such additional capital. These sources of funding may not be available to us due to unfavorable economic conditions, which could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. Consequently, if we cannot obtain further debt or equity financing on acceptable terms, our ability to acquire additional investments and to expand our operations will be adversely affected. As a result, we would be less able to achieve portfolio diversification and our investment objective, which may negatively impact our results of operations and reduce our ability to make distributions to our shareholders.. Subordinated liens on collateral securing debt investments that we have made or may make to portfolio companies may be subject to control by senior creditors with first priority liens. If there is a default, the value of the collateral may not be sufficient to repay in full both the first priority creditors and us.. Certain debt investments that we make in portfolio companies will be secured on a second priority basis by the same collateral securing senior debt of such companies. The first priority liens on the collateral will secure the portfolio company's obligations under any outstanding senior debt and may secure certain other future debt that may be permitted to be incurred by the portfolio company under the agreements governing the debt. In the event of a default, the holders of obligations secured by the first priority liens on the collateral will generally control the liquidation of and be entitled to receive proceeds from any realization of the collateral to repay their obligations in full before us. In addition, the value of the collateral in the event of liquidation will depend on market and economic conditions, the availability of buyers and other factors. There can be no assurance that the proceeds, if any, from the sale or sales of all of the collateral would be sufficient to satisfy the debt obligations secured by the second priority liens after payment in full of all obligations secured by the first priority liens on the collateral. If such proceeds are not sufficient to repay amounts outstanding under the debt obligations secured by the second priority liens, then we, to the extent not repaid from the proceeds of the sale of the collateral, will only have an unsecured claim against the portfolio company's remaining assets, if any.. We may also make unsecured debt investments in portfolio companies, meaning that such investments will not benefit from any interest in collateral of such companies. Liens on any such portfolio company's collateral, if any, will secure the portfolio company's obligations under its outstanding secured debt and may secure certain future debt that is permitted to be incurred by the portfolio company under its secured debt agreements. The holders of obligations secured by such liens will generally control the liquidation of, and be entitled to receive proceeds from, any realization of such collateral to repay their obligations in full before us. In addition, the value of such collateral in the event of liquidation will depend on market and economic conditions, the availability of buyers and other factors. There can be no assurance that the proceeds, if any, from sales of such collateral would be sufficient to satisfy our unsecured debt obligations after payment in full of all secured debt obligations. If such proceeds were not sufficient to repay the outstanding secured debt obligations, then our unsecured claims would rank equally with the unpaid portion of such secured creditors' claims against the portfolio company's remaining assets, if any.. The rights we may have with respect to the collateral securing the debt investments we make in our portfolio companies with senior debt outstanding may also be limited pursuant to the terms of one or more inter-creditor agreements that we enter into with the holders of senior debt. Under such an inter-creditor agreement, at any time obligations that have the benefit of the first priority liens are outstanding, any of the following actions that may be taken in respect of the collateral will be at the direction of the holders of the obligations secured by the first priority liens: the ability to cause the commencement of enforcement proceedings against the collateral; the ability to control the conduct of such proceedings; the approval of amendments to collateral documents; releases of liens on the collateral; and waivers of past defaults under collateral documents. We may not have the ability to control or direct such actions, even if our rights are adversely affected.. 23. Table of Contents. Certain of our investments may be adversely affected by laws relating to fraudulent conveyance or voidable preferences.. Certain of our investments could be subject to federal bankruptcy law and state fraudulent transfer laws, which vary from state to state, if the debt obligations relating to such investments were issued with the intent of hindering, delaying or defrauding creditors or, in certain circumstances, if the issuer receives less than reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration in return for issuing such debt obligations. If the debt is used for a buyout of shareholders, this risk is greater than if the debt proceeds are used for day-to-day operations or organic growth. If a court were to find that the issuance of the debt obligations was a fraudulent transfer or conveyance, the court could void or otherwise refuse to recognize the payment obligations under the debt obligations or the collateral supporting such obligations, further subordinate the debt obligations or the liens supporting such obligations to other existing and future indebtedness of the issuer or require us to repay any amounts received by us with respect to the debt obligations or collateral. In the event of a finding that a fraudulent transfer or conveyance occurred, we may not receive any repayment on the debt obligations.. Under certain circumstances, payments to us and distributions by us to our shareholders may be reclaimed if any such payment or distribution is later determined to have been a fraudulent conveyance, preferential payment or similar transaction under applicable bankruptcy and insolvency laws. Furthermore, investments in restructurings may be adversely affected by statutes relating to, among other things, fraudulent conveyances, voidable preferences, lender liability and the court's discretionary power to disallow, subordinate or disenfranchise particular claims or recharacterize investments made in the form of debt as equity contributions.. Most of our mezzanine securities and other investments (if any) are expected to be unsecured and made in companies whose capital structures have significant indebtedness ranking ahead of the investments, all or a significant portion of which may be secured.. Mezzanine debt is typically junior to the obligations of a company to senior creditors, trade creditors and employees. Most of our mezzanine securities and other investments (if any) are expected to be unsecured and made in companies whose capital structures have significant indebtedness ranking ahead of the investments, all or a significant portion of which may be secured. While the securities and other investments may benefit from the same or similar financial and other covenants as those enjoyed by the indebtedness ranking ahead of the investments and may benefit from cross-default provisions and security over the portfolio company's assets, some or all of such terms may not be part of particular investments. Default rates for mezzanine debt securities have historically been higher than for investment grade securities. Mezzanine securities and other investments generally are subject to various risks including, without limitation: (i) a subsequent characterization of an investment as a \"fraudulent conveyance\"; (ii) the recovery as a \"preference\" of liens perfected or payments made on account of a debt in the 90 days before a bankruptcy filing; (iii) equitable subordination claims by other creditors; (iv) so-called \"lender liability\" claims by the issuer of the obligations; and (v) environmental liabilities that may arise with respect to collateral securing the obligations. Mezzanine debt investments may also be subject to early redemption features, refinancing options, prepayment options or similar provisions which, in each case, could result in the issuer repaying the principal on an obligation earlier than expected. In addition, mezzanine debt investments may include enhanced information rights or other involvement with a company's Board that could result in limiting our ability to liquidate positions in the company.. We may invest in debt securities and instruments that are rated below investment grade by recognized rating agencies or will be unrated and face ongoing uncertainties and exposure to adverse business, financial or economic conditions and the issuer's failure to make timely interest and principal payments.. We may invest in debt securities and instruments that are rated below investment grade by recognized rating agencies or will be unrated and face ongoing uncertainties and exposure to adverse business, financial or economic conditions and the issuer's failure to make timely interest and principal payments. Such securities and instruments are generally not exchange-traded and, as a result, trade in the OTC marketplace, which is less transparent than the exchange-traded marketplace. In addition, we may invest in bonds of issuers that do not have publicly traded equity securities, making it more difficult to hedge the risks associated with such investments. Our investments in below investment grade instruments exposes us to a substantial degree of credit risk and interest rate risk. The market for high yield securities has recently experienced periods of significant volatility and reduced liquidity. The market values of certain of these lower-rated and unrated debt investments may reflect individual corporate developments to a greater extent and tend to be more sensitive to economic conditions than those of higher-rated investments, which react primarily to fluctuations in the general level of interest rates. Companies that issue such securities are often highly leveraged and may not have available to them more traditional methods of financing. General economic recession or a major decline in the demand for products and services in which the borrower operates would likely have a materially adverse impact on the value of such securities and the ability of the issuers of such securities to repay principal and interest thereon, thereby increasing the incidence of default of such securities. In addition, adverse publicity and investor perceptions, whether or not based on fundamental analysis, may also decrease the value and liquidity of these high yield debt investments.. 24. Table of Contents. Certain of our investments are exposed to the credit risk of the counterparties with which, or the dealers, brokers and exchanges through which, our deals, whether in exchange-traded or OTC transactions.. Certain of our investments are exposed to the credit risk of the counterparties with which, or the dealers, brokers and exchanges through which, our deals, whether in exchange-traded or OTC transactions. If there is a default by the counterparty to such a transaction, we will, under most normal circumstances, have contractual remedies pursuant to the agreements related to the transaction. However, exercising such contractual rights may involve delays or costs which could result in losses to us. We may be subject to the risk of loss of our assets on deposit or being settled or cleared with a broker in the event of the broker's bankruptcy, the bankruptcy of any clearing broker through which the broker executes and clears transactions on behalf of us, the bankruptcy of an exchange clearing house or the bankruptcy of any other counterparty. In the case of any such bankruptcy, we might recover, even in respect of property specifically traceable to us, only a pro rata share of all property available for distribution to all of the counterparty's customers and counterparties. Such an amount may be less than the amounts owed to us. Such events would have an adverse effect on the net asset value of our funds. Certain counterparties may have general custody of, or title to, our assets. The failure of any such counterparty may result in adverse consequences to the net asset value of our fund.. In addition, we may from time to time use counterparties located in jurisdictions outside the U.S. Such counterparties usually are subject to laws and regulations in non-U.S. jurisdictions that are designed to protect customers in the event of their insolvency. However, the practical effect of these laws and their application to our assets may be subject to substantial limitations and uncertainties. Because of the range of possible factual scenarios involving the insolvency of a counterparty and the potential number of entities and jurisdictions that may be involved, it is impossible to generalize about the effect of such an insolvency on us and our assets. Investors should assume that the insolvency of any such counterparty would result in significant delays in recovering our financial instruments from or the payment of claims therefor by such counterparty and a loss to us, which could be material.. Our investments may be structured through the use of OTC options and swaps or other indirect investment transactions. Such transactions may be entered into with a small number of counterparties resulting in a concentration of counterparty risk. The exercise of counterparty rights under such arrangements, including forced sales of securities, may have a significant adverse impact on us and our fund's net asset value.. There may be circumstances where our debt investments could be subordinated to claims of other creditors or we could be subject to lender liability claims.. Although we generally structure certain of our investments as senior debt, if one of our portfolio companies were to go bankrupt, depending on the facts and circumstances, including the extent to which we provided managerial assistance to that portfolio company or a representative of us or KKR sat on the Board of such portfolio company, a bankruptcy court might re-characterize our debt investment and subordinate all or a portion of our claim to that of other creditors. In situations where a bankruptcy carries a high degree of political significance, our legal rights may be subordinated to other creditors.. In addition, a number of U.S. judicial decisions have upheld judgments obtained by borrowers against lending institutions on the basis of various evolving legal theories, collectively termed \"lender liability.\" Generally, lender liability is founded on the premise that a lender has violated a duty (whether implied or contractual) of good faith, commercial reasonableness and fair dealing, or a similar duty owed to the borrower or has assumed an excessive degree of control over the borrower resulting in the creation of a fiduciary duty owed to the borrower or its other creditors or shareholders. Because of the nature of our investments in portfolio companies (including that, as a business development company, we may be required to provide managerial assistance to those portfolio companies), we may be subject to allegations of lender liability.. We generally will not control the business operations of our portfolio companies and, due to the illiquid nature of our holdings in our portfolio companies, we may not be able to dispose of our interest in our portfolio companies.. We do not expect to control most of our portfolio companies, even though we may have board representation or board observation rights, and our debt agreements may impose certain restrictive covenants on our borrowers. As a result, we are subject to the risk that a portfolio company in which we invest may make business decisions with which we disagree and the management of such company, as representatives of the holders of their common equity, may take risks or otherwise act in ways that do not serve our interests as a debt investor. Due to the lack of liquidity for our investments in private companies, we may not be able to dispose of our interests in our portfolio companies as readily as we would like or at an appropriate valuation. As a result, a portfolio company may make decisions that could decrease the value of our portfolio holdings.. We are exposed to risks associated with changes in interest rates.. General interest rate fluctuations may have a substantial negative impact on our investments and investment opportunities and, accordingly, may have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our investment objective and the rate of return on invested capital. Because we borrow money and may issue debt securities to make investments, our net investment income is dependent, in part, upon the difference between the rate at which we borrow funds or pay interest on such. 25. Table of Contents. debt securities and the rate at which we invest these funds. As a result, there can be no assurance that a significant change in market interest rates will not have a material adverse effect on our net investment income.. Trading prices for debt that pays a fixed rate of return tend to fall as interest rates rise. Trading prices tend to fluctuate more for fixed-rate securities that have longer maturities. We may enter into certain hedging transactions, such as interest rate swap agreements, to mitigate our exposure to adverse fluctuations in interest rates and we may increase our floating rate investments to position the portfolio for rate increases. However, we cannot assure you that such transactions will be successful in mitigating our exposure to interest rate risk or if we will enter into such interest rate hedges. Hedging transactions may also limit our ability to participate in the benefits of lower interest rates with respect to our portfolio investments.. We do not have a policy governing the maturities of our investments. This means that we are subject to greater risk (other things being equal) than a fund invested solely in shorter-term securities. A decline in the prices of the debt we own could adversely affect our net asset value. Also, an increase in interest rates available to investors could make an investment in our common stock less attractive if we are not able to increase our dividend rate.. International investments create additional risks.. We have made, and expect to continue to make, investments in portfolio companies that are domiciled outside of the United States. We anticipate that up to 30% of our investments may be in these types of assets. Our investments in foreign portfolio companies are deemed \"non-qualifying assets,\" which means, as required by the 1940 Act, they, along with other non-qualifying assets, may not constitute more than 30% of our total assets at the time of our acquisition of any asset, after giving effect to the acquisition. Notwithstanding the limitation on our ownership of foreign portfolio companies, such investments subject us to many of the same risks as our domestic investments, as well as certain additional risks, including the following:. • foreign governmental laws, rules and policies, including those restricting the ownership of assets in the foreign country or the repatriation of profits from the foreign country to the United States;. • foreign currency devaluations that reduce the value of and returns on our foreign investments;. • adverse changes in the availability, cost and terms of investments due to the varying economic policies of a foreign country in which we invest;. • adverse changes in tax rates, the tax treatment of transaction structures and other changes in operating expenses of a particular foreign country in which we invest;. • the assessment of foreign-country taxes (including withholding taxes, transfer taxes and value added taxes, any or all of which could be significant) on income or gains from our investments in the foreign country;. • adverse changes in foreign-country laws, including those relating to taxation, bankruptcy and ownership of assets;. • changes that adversely affect the social, political and/or economic stability of a foreign country in which we invest;. • high inflation in the foreign countries in which we invest, which could increase the costs to us of investing in those countries;. • deflationary periods in the foreign countries in which we invest, which could reduce demand for our assets in those countries and diminish the value of such investments and the related investment returns to us; and. • legal and logistical barriers in the foreign countries in which we invest that materially and adversely limit our ability to enforce our contractual rights with respect to those investments.. In addition, we may make investments in countries whose governments or economies may prove unstable. Certain of the countries in which we may invest may have political, economic and legal systems that are unpredictable, unreliable or otherwise inadequate with respect to the implementation, interpretation and enforcement of laws protecting asset ownership and economic interests. In some of the countries in which we may invest, there may be a risk of nationalization, expropriation or confiscatory taxation, which may have an adverse effect on our portfolio companies in those countries and the rates of return that we are able to achieve on such investments. We may also lose the total value of any investment which is nationalized, expropriated or confiscated. The financial results and investment opportunities available to us, particularly in developing countries and emerging markets, may be materially and adversely affected by any or all of these political, economic and legal risks.. Our investments in private investment funds, including hedge funds, private equity funds, limited liability companies and other business entities, subject us indirectly to the underlying risks of such private investment funds and additional fees and expenses.. We may invest in private investment funds, including hedge funds, private equity funds, limited liability companies and other business entities which would be required to register as investment companies but for an exemption under Sections 3(c)(1) and 3(c)(7) of the 1940 Act. Our investments in such private investment funds expose us to the risks associated with the businesses of such funds or entities as well as such private investment funds' portfolio companies. These private investment funds may or may not be registered investment companies and, thus, may not be subject to protections afforded by the 1940. 26. Table of Contents. Act, covering, among other areas, liquidity requirements, governance by an independent board, affiliated transaction restrictions, leverage limitations, public disclosure requirements and custody requirements.. We rely primarily on information provided by managers of private investment funds in valuing our investments in such funds. There is a risk that inaccurate valuations provided by managers of private investment funds could adversely affect the value of our common stock. In addition, there can be no assurance that a manager of a private investment fund will provide advance notice of any material change in such private investment fund's investment program or policies and thus, our investment portfolio may be subject to additional risks which may not be promptly identified by KKR.. Before investing in any private investment fund, KKR, under the oversight of our Board, will conduct a due diligence review of the valuation methodology utilized by the private investment fund, which as a general matter we expect would utilize market values when available, and otherwise utilize principles of fair value that KKR reasonably believes to be consistent with those used by us for valuing our own investments. After investing in a private investment fund, KKR will monitor the valuation methodology used by the asset manager and/or issuer of the private investment fund. Following procedures adopted by our Board, in the absence of specific transaction activity in a particular private investment fund, our Board will consider whether it is appropriate, in light of all relevant circumstances, to value our investment at the net asset value reported by the private investment fund at the time of valuation or to adjust the value to reflect a premium or discount.. KKR will provide our Board with periodic reports, no less frequently than quarterly, that discuss the functioning of the valuation process, if applicable to that period, and that identify issues and valuations problems that have arisen, if any. To the extent deemed necessary by KKR, our Board will review any securities valued by KKR in accordance with our valuation policies.. Our Board - with the assistance of KKR, officers and, through them, independent valuation agents - is responsible for determining in good faith the fair value of our portfolio investments for which market quotations are not readily available (as is the case of private investment funds). Our Board will make this determination on a quarterly basis and any other time when a decision is required regarding the fair value of our investments in private investment funds or other portfolio investments for which market quotations are not available. A determination of fair value involves subjective judgments and estimates, and it is possible that the fair value determined for a security may differ materially from the value that could be realized upon the sale of the security.. Investments in the securities of private investment funds may also involve duplication of advisory fees and certain other expenses. By investing in private investment funds indirectly through us, you bear a pro rata portion of our advisory fees and other expenses, and also indirectly bear a pro rata portion of the advisory fees, performance-based allocations and other expenses borne by us as an investor in the private investment funds. In addition, the purchase of the shares of some private investment funds requires the payment of sales loads and (in the case of closed-end investment companies) sometimes substantial premiums above the value of such investment companies' portfolio securities.. In addition, certain private investment funds may not provide us with the liquidity we require and would thus subject us to liquidity risk. Further, even if an investment in a private investment fund is deemed liquid at the time of investment, the private investment fund may, in the future, alter the nature of our investments and cease to be a liquid investment fund, subjecting us to liquidity risk.. We may acquire various structured financial instruments for purposes of \"hedging\" or reducing our risks, which may be costly and ineffective and could reduce the cash available to service our debt or for distribution to our shareholders.. We may seek to hedge against interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations and credit risk by using structured financial instruments such as futures, options, swaps and forward contracts, subject to the requirements of the 1940 Act. Use of structured financial instruments for hedging purposes may present significant risks, including the risk of loss of the amounts invested. Defaults by the other party to a hedging transaction can result in losses in the hedging transaction. Hedging activities also involve the risk of an imperfect correlation between the hedging instrument and the asset being hedged, which could result in losses both on the hedging transaction and on the instrument being hedged. Use of hedging activities may not prevent significant losses and could increase our losses. Further, hedging transactions may reduce cash available to service our debt or pay distributions to our shareholders.. Derivative transactions which we may enter into may expose us to certain risks, including market risk, liquidity risk and other risks associated with the use of leverage.. Certain derivative transactions, such as a total return swap arrangement, or TRS, effectively add leverage to our portfolio by providing us investment and economic exposure to a security or portfolio of securities without our owning, investing directly in, or taking physical custody of such security or portfolio of securities.. Such derivative transactions are subject to market risks, liquidity risks and risks of imperfect correlation between the value of the transaction and the assets underlying the transaction. In addition, because such transactions are forms of. 27. Table of Contents. synthetic leverage, they are subject to risks associated with the use of leverage. Moreover, we may incur certain costs in connection with such transactions that could in the aggregate be significant.. Such transactions are subject to the risk that the counterparty will default on its payment obligations or that one party will otherwise not be able to meet its contractual obligations to the other. Additionally, if the counterparty chooses to exercise its termination rights under such transactions, it is possible that, because of adverse market conditions existing at the time of such termination, we will owe more to the counterparty (or will be entitled to receive less from the counterparty) than we would otherwise have if we controlled the timing of such termination.. Defaults by our portfolio companies will harm our operating results.. A portfolio company's failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, termination of its debt financing and foreclosure on its secured assets, which could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize a portfolio company's ability to meet its obligations under the debt or equity securities that we hold. We may incur expenses to the extent necessary to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms, which may include the waiver of certain financial covenants, with a defaulting portfolio company.. An investment strategy focused primarily on privately held companies presents certain challenges, including the lack of available information about these companies.. We invest primarily in privately held companies. Investments in private companies pose certain incremental risks as compared to investments in public companies including that they:. • have reduced access to the capital markets, resulting in diminished capital resources and ability to withstand financial distress;. • may have limited financial resources and may be unable to meet their obligations under their debt securities that we hold, which may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of any collateral and a reduction in the likelihood of us realizing any guarantees we may have obtained in connection with our investment;. • may have shorter operating histories, narrower product lines and smaller market shares than larger businesses, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors' actions and changing market conditions, as well as general economic downturns;. • are more likely to depend on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons; therefore, the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on a privately held company and, in turn, on us; and. • generally have less predictable operating results, may from time to time be parties to litigation, may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence, and may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance expansion or maintain their competitive position. In addition, our executive officers, directors and members of KKR's management may, in the ordinary course of business, be named as defendants in litigation arising from our investments in the portfolio companies.. In addition, investments in private companies tend to be less liquid. The securities of private companies are not publicly traded or actively traded on the secondary market and are, instead, traded on a privately negotiated over-the-counter secondary market for institutional investors. These over-the-counter secondary markets may be inactive during an economic downturn or a credit crisis. In addition, the securities in these companies will be subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or will otherwise be less liquid than publicly traded securities. If there is no readily available market for these investments, we are required to carry these investments at fair value as determined by our Board. As a result, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we had previously recorded these investments. We may also face other restrictions on our ability to liquidate an investment in a portfolio company to the extent that we, KKR or any of its affiliates have material nonpublic information regarding such portfolio company or where the sale would be an impermissible joint transaction. The reduced liquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to dispose of them at a favorable price, and, as a result, we may suffer losses.. Finally, little public information generally exists about private companies and these companies may not have third-party credit ratings or audited financial statements. We must therefore rely on the ability of KKR to obtain adequate information through due diligence to evaluate the creditworthiness and potential returns from investing in these companies. Additionally, these companies and their financial information will not generally be subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other rules that govern public companies. If we are unable to uncover all material information about these companies, we may not make a fully informed investment decision, and we may lose money on our investments.. Certain investment analyses and decisions by KKR may be required to be undertaken on an expedited basis.. Investment analyses and decisions by KKR may be required to be undertaken on an expedited basis to take advantage of investment opportunities. While we generally will not seek to make an investment until KKR has conducted. 28. Table of Contents. sufficient due diligence to make a determination as to the acceptability of the credit quality of the investment and the underlying issuer, in such cases, the information available to KKR at the time of making an investment decision may be limited. Therefore, no assurance can be given that KKR will have knowledge of all circumstances that may adversely affect an investment. In addition, KKR expects often to rely upon independent consultants in connection with its evaluation of proposed investments. No assurance can be given as to the accuracy or completeness of the information provided by such independent consultants and we may incur liability as a result of such consultants' actions.. We may not have the funds or ability to make additional investments in our portfolio companies or to fund our unfunded commitments.. After our initial investment in a portfolio company, we may be called upon from time to time to provide additional funds to such company or have the opportunity to increase our investment through the exercise of a warrant or other right to purchase common stock. There is no assurance that we will make, or will have sufficient funds to make, follow-on investments. Even if we do have sufficient capital to make a desired follow-on investment, we may elect not to make a follow-on investment because we may not want to increase our level of risk, we prefer other opportunities, we are limited in our ability to do so by compliance with business development company requirements, or we desire to maintain our RIC status. Our ability to make follow-on investments may also be limited by KKR's allocation policies. Any decisions not to make a follow-on investment or any inability on our part to make such an investment may have a negative impact on a portfolio company in need of such an investment, may result in a missed opportunity for us to increase our participation in a successful operation or may reduce the expected return on the investment.. Prepayments of our debt investments by our portfolio companies could adversely impact our results of operations and reduce our return on equity.. We are subject to the risk that the investments we make in our portfolio companies may be repaid prior to maturity. When this occurs, we will generally reinvest these proceeds in temporary investments, pending their future investment in new portfolio companies. These temporary investments will typically have substantially lower yields than the debt being prepaid and we could experience significant delays in reinvesting these amounts. Any future investment in a new portfolio company may also be at lower yields than the debt that was repaid. As a result, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected if one or more of our portfolio companies elect to prepay amounts owed to us. Additionally, prepayments, net of prepayment fees, could negatively impact our return on equity.. The agreements governing each of our revolving credit facilities and our senior secured term loan contain various covenants which, if not complied with, could accelerate repayment under the relevant facility, thereby materially and adversely affecting our liquidity, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to service our debt or pay distributions to our shareholders.. We and each of our wholly owned, special purpose financing subsidiaries are party to revolving or term credit facilities with one or more lenders. We or our special purpose financing subsidiaries may become party to additional such facilities in the future. The agreements governing these facilities currently, and are likely to continue to, contain default provisions such as:. • the failure to make principal payments when due or interest payments within three business days of when due;. • borrowings under the facility exceeding the applicable advance rates;. • the purchase by us or the relevant financing subsidiary, as applicable, of certain ineligible assets;. • the insolvency or bankruptcy of us or the relevant financing subsidiary;. • the decline of our or the relevant financing subsidiary's, as applicable, net asset value below a specified threshold; and. • fraud or other illicit acts by us or KKR in our or its investment advisory capacities.. An event of default under any one credit facility may result, among other things, in the termination of the availability of further funds under that facility and other unrelated credit facilities, and an accelerated maturity date for all amounts outstanding under the credit facility or facilities. This could disrupt our business, reduce our revenues and, by delaying any distributions allowed to us under the facility until the lender has been paid in full, reduce our liquidity and cash flow and impair our ability to grow our business, service our debt, make distribution payments to our shareholders and maintain our status as a RIC.. The agreements governing each credit facility would require us or the relevant financing subsidiary, as applicable, to comply with certain operational covenants. These covenants may, for example, require us or the relevant financing subsidiary, as applicable, to, among other things, maintain eligible assets with an aggregate equity value, net of borrowing balance, equal to or exceeding specified amounts under the facility. In addition, under the relevant facility, the occurrence of certain \"Super-Collateralization Events\" may result in an increase of the collateral equity value that we or the relevant financing subsidiary, as applicable, is required to maintain. Super-Collateralization Events would include, among other things:. • certain key employees ceasing to be directors, principals, officers or investment managers of KKR;. 29. Table of Contents. • the bankruptcy or insolvency of KKR;. • KKR ceasing to act as adviser for us or the relevant financing subsidiary;. • our ceasing to act as the relevant financing subsidiary's investment manager, becoming bankrupt or insolvent, defaulting on certain material agreements or failing to maintain a net asset value above a specified threshold; and. • fraud or other illicit acts by us or KKR in our or its investment advisory capacities.. A decline in the value of assets owned by us or the relevant financing subsidiary, as applicable or the occurrence of a Super-Collateralization Event under the relevant facility could result in our being required to retain, acquire or contribute to the relevant financing subsidiary, as applicable, additional assets, which would likely disrupt our business and impact our ability to meet our investment objectives, service our debt and pay distributions to our shareholders.. The failure to meet collateral requirements under the relevant facility or the occurrence of any other event of default that results in the termination of such facility may force us to liquidate positions at a time and/or at a price that is disadvantageous to us and could result in losses. In addition, upon the occurrence of an event of default under the relevant facility, the related lender would have the right to the assets pledged as collateral supporting the amounts outstanding under the facility and could sell such assets in order to satisfy amounts due under the facility.. Each borrowing under any credit facility will be subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions. We cannot assure you that we or the relevant financing subsidiary, as applicable, will be able to borrow funds under the relevant facility at any particular time or at all.. To the extent that we borrow money, the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested in us will be magnified and may increase the risk of investing in us. Borrowed money may also adversely affect the return on our assets, reduce cash available to service our debt or for distribution to our shareholders, and result in losses.. The use of borrowings, also known as leverage, increases the volatility of investments by magnifying the potential for gain or loss on invested equity capital. Since we use leverage to partially finance our investments, through borrowing from banks and other lenders, you will experience increased risks of investing in our securities. If the value of our assets decreases, leveraging will cause our net asset value to decline more sharply than it otherwise would if we had not borrowed and employed leverage. Similarly, any decrease in our income would cause our net income to decline more sharply than it would have if we had not borrowed and employed leverage. Such a decline could negatively affect our ability to service our debt or make distributions to our shareholders. In addition, our shareholders will bear the burden of any increase in our expenses as a result of our use of leverage, including interest expenses and any increase in the management or incentive fees payable to KKR.. The amount of leverage that we employ depends on KKR's and our Board's assessment of market and other factors at the time of any proposed borrowing. There can be no assurance that additional leveraged financing will be available to us on favorable terms or at all. However, to the extent that we use leverage to finance our assets, our financing costs will reduce cash available for servicing our debt or distributions to shareholders. Moreover, we may not be able to meet our financing obligations and, to the extent that we cannot, we risk the loss of some or all of our assets to liquidation or sale to satisfy the obligations. In such an event, we may be forced to sell assets at significantly depressed prices due to market conditions or otherwise, which may result in losses.. As a business development company, we are required to meet a coverage ratio of total assets to total borrowings and other senior securities, which include all of our borrowings and any preferred stock that we may issue in the future, of at least 200%. If this ratio declines below 200%, we cannot incur additional debt and could be required to sell a portion of our investments to repay some debt when it is disadvantageous to do so. This could have a material adverse effect on our operations, and we may not be able to service our debt or make distributions.. Legislation was previously introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives that proposed a modification of this section of the 1940 Act to permit an increase in the amount of debt that business development companies could incur by modifying the percentage from 200% to 150%. Similar legislation may be reintroduced and may pass that permits us to incur additional leverage under the 1940 Act. As a result, we may be able to incur additional indebtedness in the future, and, therefore, the risk of an investment in us may increase.. Investments in which we have a non-controlling interest may involve risks specific to third-party management of those investments.. We may also co-invest with third parties through partnerships, joint ventures or other entities, thereby acquiring jointly-controlled or non-controlling interests in certain investments in conjunction with participation by one or more third parties in such investment. Such joint venture partners or third party managers may include former KKR personnel or associated persons. As co-investors, we may have interests or objectives that are inconsistent with those of the third-party partners or co-venturers. Although we may not have full control over these investments and therefore, may have a limited ability to protect its position therein, we expect that we will negotiate appropriate rights to protect our interests. Nevertheless, such investments may involve risks not present in investments where a third party is not involved, including the possibility that. 30. Table of Contents. a third-party partner or co-venturer may have financial difficulties, resulting in a negative impact on such investment, may have economic or business interests or goals which are inconsistent with ours, or may be in a position to take (or block) action in a manner contrary to the our investment objectives or the increased possibility of default by, diminished liquidity or insolvency of, the third party, due to a sustained or general economic downturn. Third-party partners or co-venturers may opt to liquidate an investment at a time during which such liquidation is not optimal for us. In addition, we may in certain circumstances be liable for the actions of its third-party partners or co-venturers. In those circumstances where such third parties involve a management group, such third parties may receive compensation arrangements relating to such investments, including incentive compensation arrangements.. Risks Related to an Investment in our Common Stock. A shareholder's interest in us will be diluted if we issue additional shares, which could reduce the overall value of an investment in us.. Our shareholders do not have preemptive rights to any shares we issue in the future. Our charter, which we refer to herein as the articles of incorporation, authorizes us to issue up to 1,000,000,000 shares of common stock. Pursuant to our articles of incorporation, a majority of our entire Board may amend our articles of incorporation to increase or decrease the aggregate number of authorized shares of stock or the number of authorized shares of stock of any class or series without shareholder approval. Our board may elect to sell additional shares in the future or issue equity interests in private offerings. To the extent we issue additional equity interests at or below net asset value, your percentage ownership interest in us may be diluted. In addition, depending upon the terms and pricing of any additional offerings and the value of our investments, you may also experience dilution in the book value and fair value of your shares.. Under the 1940 Act, we generally are prohibited from issuing or selling our common stock at a price below net asset value per share, which may be a disadvantage as compared with certain public companies. We may, however, sell our common stock, or warrants, options, or rights to acquire our common stock, at a price below the current net asset value of our common stock if our Board and independent directors determine that such sale is in our best interests and the best interests of our shareholders, and our shareholders, including a majority of those shareholders that are not affiliated with us, approve such sale. In any such case, the price at which our securities are to be issued and sold may not be less than a price that, in the determination of our Board, closely approximates the fair value of such securities (less any distributing commission or discount). If we raise additional funds by issuing common stock or senior securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, our common stock, then the percentage ownership of our shareholders at that time will decrease and you will experience dilution.. Any sale or other issuance of shares of our common stock at a price below net asset value per share would result in an immediate dilution to our common stock and a reduction of our net asset value per share. This dilution would occur as a result of a proportionately greater decrease in a shareholder's interest in our earnings and assets and voting interest in us than the increase in our assets resulting from such issuance. Because the number of future shares of common stock that may be issued below our net asset value per share and the price and timing of such issuances are not currently known, we cannot predict the actual dilutive effect of any such issuance nor can we predict the resulting reduction in our net asset value per share, however, such effects may be material. If our shares of common stock are trading at a price below its net asset value per share, we will generally not be able to issue additional shares of our common stock at their market price without first obtaining approval for such issuance from our shareholders and our independent directors. We may not be able to obtain the necessary approvals to sell shares of common stock below net asset value. We undertake to describe the material risks and dilutive effects of any offering that we make at a price below our then-current net asset value in the future in a prospectus supplement issued in connection with any such offering.. Preferred stock could be issued with rights and preferences that would adversely affect holders of our common stock.. Under the terms of our articles of incorporation, our Board is authorized to issue shares of preferred stock in one or more series without shareholder approval, which could potentially adversely affect the interests of existing shareholders.. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the availability of such common stock for sale, could adversely affect the prevailing market prices for our common stock. If this occurs and continues for a sustained period of time, it could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of securities should we desire to do so.. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk.. The investments we make in accordance with our investment objective may result in a higher amount of risk than alternative investment options and includes volatility or loss of principal. Our investments in portfolio companies may be highly speculative and aggressive and, therefore, an investment in our common stock may not be suitable for someone with lower risk tolerance.. 31. Table of Contents. The net asset value of our common stock may fluctuate significantly.. The net asset value and liquidity of the market for shares of our common stock may be significantly affected by numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be directly related to our operating performance. These factors include:. • changes in the value of our portfolio of investments and derivative instruments as a result of changes in market factors, such as interest rate shifts, and also portfolio specific performance, such as portfolio company defaults, among other reasons;. • changes in regulatory policies or tax guidelines, particularly with respect to RICs or business development companies;. • de-listing from the NYSE;. • loss of RIC or business development company status;. • distributions that exceed our net investment income and net income as reported according to GAAP;. • changes in earnings or variations in operating results;. • changes in accounting guidelines governing valuation of our investments;. • any shortfall in revenue or net income or any increase in losses from levels expected by investors;. • departure of KKR or certain of its key personnel;. • general economic trends and other external factors; and. • loss of a major funding source.. Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law could deter takeover attempts.. Our bylaws exempt us from the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act, which significantly restricts the voting rights of control shares of a Maryland corporation acquired in a control share acquisition. If our bylaws were amended to repeal this exemption from the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act, that statute may make it more difficult for a third party to obtain control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating such a transaction. Although we do not presently intend to adopt such an amendment to our bylaws, there can be no assurance that we will not so amend our bylaws at some time in the future. We will not, however, amend our bylaws to make us subject to the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act without our Board determining that doing so would not conflict with the 1940 Act and obtaining confirmation from the SEC that it does not object to that determination.. Additionally, our Board may, without shareholder action, authorize the issuance of shares of stock in one or more classes or series, including preferred stock. Our Board may also, without shareholder action, amend our articles of incorporation to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares of stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we have authority to issue. These provisions may inhibit a change of control in circumstances that could give the holders of our common stock the opportunity to realize a premium over the value of our common stock.. We may pay distributions from offering proceeds, borrowings or the sale of assets to the extent our cash flows from operations, net investment income or earnings are not sufficient to fund declared distributions.. We may fund distributions from the uninvested proceeds of an offering and borrowings, and we have not established limits on the amount of funds we may use from such proceeds or borrowings to make any such distributions. We have paid and may continue to pay distributions from the sale of assets to the extent distributions exceed our earnings or cash flows from operations. Distributions from offering proceeds or from borrowings could reduce the amount of capital we ultimately invest in our investment portfolio.. Shareholders may experience dilution in their ownership percentage if they do not participate in our distribution reinvestment plan.. All distributions declared in cash payable to shareholders that are participants in our distribution reinvestment plan will generally be automatically reinvested in shares of our common stock. As a result, shareholders that do not participate in our distribution reinvestment plan may experience dilution over time. Shareholders who do not participate in our distribution reinvestment plan may experience accretion to the net asset value of their shares if our shares are trading at a premium to net asset value and dilution if our shares are trading at a discount to net asset value. The level of accretion or discount would depend on various factors, including the proportion of our shareholders who participate in the plan, the level of premium or discount at which our shares are trading and the amount of the distribution payable to shareholders.. Your interest in us may be diluted if you do not fully exercise your subscription rights in any rights offering. In addition, if the subscription price is less than our net asset value per share, then you will experience an immediate dilution of the aggregate net asset value of your shares.. In the event we issue subscription rights, shareholders who do not fully exercise their subscription rights should expect that they will, at the completion of a rights offering pursuant to our prospectus, own a smaller proportional interest in us than would otherwise be the case if they fully exercised their rights. We cannot state precisely the amount of any such dilution. 32. Table of Contents. in share ownership because we do not know at this time what proportion of the shares will be purchased as a result of such rights offering.. In addition, if the subscription price is less than the net asset value per share of our common stock, then our shareholders would experience an immediate dilution of the aggregate net asset value of their shares as a result of the offering. The amount of any decrease in net asset value is not predictable because it is not known at this time what the subscription price and net asset value per share will be on the expiration date of a rights offering or what proportion of the shares will be purchased as a result of such rights offering. Such dilution could be substantial.. These dilutive effects may be exacerbated if we were to conduct multiple subscription rights offerings, particularly if such offerings were to occur over a short period of time. In addition, subscription rights offerings and the prospect of future subscription rights offerings may create downward pressure on the secondary market price of our common stock due to the potential for the issuance of shares at a price below our net asset value, without a corresponding change to our net asset value.. If we issue preferred stock, debt securities or convertible debt securities, the net asset value of our common stock may become more volatile.. We cannot assure you that the issuance of preferred stock and/or debt securities would result in a higher yield or return to the holders of our common stock. The issuance of preferred stock, debt securities or convertible debt would likely cause the net asset value of our common stock to become more volatile. If the dividend rate on the preferred stock, or the interest rate on the debt securities, were to approach the net rate of return on our investment portfolio, the benefit of leverage to the holders of our common stock would be reduced. If the dividend rate on the preferred stock, or the interest rate on the debt securities, were to exceed the net rate of return on our portfolio, the use of leverage would result in a lower rate of return to the holders of common stock than if we had not issued the preferred stock or debt securities. Any decline in the net asset value of our investment would be borne entirely by the holders of our common stock. Therefore, if the market value of our portfolio were to decline, the leverage would result in a greater decrease in net asset value to the holders of our common stock than if we were not leveraged through the issuance of preferred stock. This decline in net asset value would also tend to cause a greater decline in the market price for our common stock.. There is also a risk that, in the event of a sharp decline in the value of our net assets, we would be in danger of failing to maintain required asset coverage ratios which may be required by the preferred stock, debt securities or convertible debt or our current investment income might not be sufficient to meet the dividend requirements on the preferred stock or the interest payments on the debt securities. In order to counteract such an event, we might need to liquidate investments in order to fund redemption of some or all of the preferred stock, debt securities or convertible debt. In addition, we would pay (and the holders of our common stock would bear) all costs and expenses relating to the issuance and ongoing maintenance of the preferred stock, debt securities, convertible debt, any combination of these securities. Holders of preferred stock, debt securities or convertible debt may have different interests than holders of common stock and may at times have disproportionate influence over our affairs.. Holders of any preferred stock that we may issue will have the right to elect members of the Board and have class voting rights on certain matters.. The 1940 Act requires that holders of shares of preferred stock must be entitled as a class to elect two directors at all times and to elect a majority of the directors if distributions on such preferred stock are in arrears by two years or more, until such arrearage is eliminated. In addition, certain matters under the 1940 Act require the separate vote of the holders of any issued and outstanding preferred stock, including changes in fundamental investment restrictions and conversion to open-end status and, accordingly, preferred shareholders could veto any such changes. Restrictions imposed on the declarations and payment of distributions or other distributions to the holders of our common stock and preferred stock, both by the 1940 Act and by requirements imposed by rating agencies, might impair our ability to maintain our qualification as a RIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. Federal Income Tax Risks. We will be subject to corporate-level income tax if we are unable to maintain our qualification as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code or if we make investments through taxable subsidiaries.. To maintain RIC tax treatment under the Code, we must meet the following minimum annual distribution, income source and asset diversification requirements.. 33. Table of Contents. The minimum annual distribution requirement for a RIC will be satisfied if we distribute to our shareholders on an annual basis at least 90% of our investment company taxable income. In addition, a RIC may, in certain cases, satisfy the 90% distribution requirement by distributing distributions relating to a taxable year after the close of such taxable year under the \"spillback dividend\" provisions of subchapter M. We would be taxed, at regular corporate rates, on retained income and/or gains, including any short-term capital gains or long-term capital gains. We must also satisfy an additional annual distribution requirement with respect to each calendar year in order to avoid a 4% excise tax on the amount of the under-distribution. Because we use debt financing, we are subject to (i) an asset coverage ratio requirement under the 1940 Act and (ii) certain financial covenants under loan and credit agreements that could, under certain circumstances, restrict us from making distributions necessary to satisfy the distribution requirements. If we are unable to obtain cash from other sources, or chose or be required to retain a portion of our taxable income or gains, we could (1) be required to pay excise tax and (2) fail to qualify for RIC tax treatment, and thus become subject to corporate-level income tax on our taxable income (including gains).. The income source requirement will be satisfied if we obtain at least 90% of our annual income from dividends, interest, gains from the sale of stock or securities, or other income derived from the business of investing in stock or securities.. The asset diversification requirement will be satisfied if we meet certain asset diversification requirements at the end of each quarter of our taxable year. To satisfy this requirement, at least 50% of the value of our assets must consist of cash, cash equivalents (including receivables), U.S. Government securities, securities of other RICs, and other acceptable securities; and no more than 25% of the value of our assets can be invested in the securities, other than U.S. government securities or securities of other RICs, of one issuer, of two or more issuers that are controlled, as determined under applicable Code rules, by us and that are engaged in the same or similar or related trades or businesses or of certain \"qualified publicly traded partnerships.\" Failure to meet these requirements may result in our having to dispose of certain investments quickly in order to prevent the loss of RIC status. Because most of our investments will be in private companies, and therefore will be relatively illiquid, any such dispositions could be made at disadvantageous prices and could result in substantial losses.. If we fail to qualify for or maintain RIC tax treatment for any reason and are subject to corporate income tax, the resulting corporate taxes could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of income available for distribution, and the amount of our distributions.. We may invest in certain debt and equity investments through taxable subsidiaries and the net taxable income of these taxable subsidiaries will be subject to federal and state corporate income taxes. We may invest in certain foreign debt and equity investments which could be subject to foreign taxes (such as income tax, withholding, and value added taxes).. We may have difficulty paying our required distributions if we recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income.. For federal income tax purposes, we may be required to recognize taxable income in circumstances in which we do not receive a corresponding payment in cash. For example, since we will likely hold debt obligations that are treated under applicable tax rules as having original issue discount (such as debt instruments with PIK, secondary market purchases of debt securities at a discount to par, interest or, in certain cases, increasing interest rates or debt instruments that were issued with warrants), we must include in income each year a portion of the original issue discount that accrues over the life of the obligation, regardless of whether cash representing such income is received by us in the same taxable year. We may also have to include in income other amounts that we have not yet received in cash, such as unrealized appreciation for foreign currency forward contracts and deferred loan origination fees that are paid after origination of the loan or are paid in non-cash compensation such as warrants or stock. Furthermore, we may invest in non-U.S. corporations (or other non-U.S. entities treated as corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes) that could be treated under the Code and U.S. Treasury regulations as \"passive foreign investment companies\" and/or \"controlled foreign corporations.\" The rules relating to investment in these types of non-U.S. entities are designed to ensure that U.S. taxpayers are either, in effect, taxed currently (or on an accelerated basis with respect to corporate level events) or taxed at increased tax rates at distribution or disposition. In certain circumstances this could require us to recognize income where we do not receive a corresponding payment in cash.. Unrealized appreciation on derivatives, such as foreign currency forward contracts, may be included in taxable income while the receipt of cash may occur in a subsequent period when the related contract expires. Any unrealized depreciation on investments that the foreign currency forward contracts are designed to hedge is not currently deductible for tax purposes. This can result in increased taxable income whereby we may not have sufficient cash to pay distributions or we may opt to retain such taxable income and pay a 4% excise tax. In such case we could still rely upon the \"spillback provisions\" to maintain RIC qualification.. A portion of our income may constitute original issue discount or other income required to be included in taxable income prior to receipt of cash. Further, we may elect to amortize market discounts with respect to debt securities acquired in the secondary market and include such amounts in our taxable income in the current year, instead of upon disposition, as an election not to do so would limit our ability to deduct interest expenses for tax purposes. Because any original issue discount or other amounts accrued will be included in our investment company taxable income for the year of the accrual, we may be. 34. Table of Contents. required to make a distribution to our shareholders in order to satisfy the annual distribution requirement, even if we will not have received any corresponding cash amount. As a result, we may have difficulty meeting the annual distribution requirement necessary to maintain RIC tax treatment under the Code. We may have to sell some of our investments at times and/or at prices we would not consider advantageous, raise additional debt or equity capital, make a partial share distribution, or forgo new investment opportunities for this purpose. If we are not able to obtain cash from other sources, and choose not to make a qualifying share distribution, we may fail to qualify for RIC tax treatment and thus become subject to corporate-level income tax.. Impact of recently enacted federal tax legislation. Significant U.S. federal tax reform legislation was recently enacted which, among other things, permanently reduces the maximum federal corporate income tax rate, reduces the maximum individual income tax rate (effective for taxable years 2018 through 2025), restricts the deductibility of business interest expense, changes the rules regarding the calculation of net operating loss deductions which may be used to offset taxable income, expands the circumstances in which a foreign corporation will be treated as a \"controlled foreign corporation\" and, under certain circumstances, requires accrual method taxpayers to recognize income for U.S. federal income tax purposes no later than the income is taken into account as revenue in an applicable financial statement. The impact of this new legislation on us, our shareholders and entities in which we may invest is uncertain. Prospective investors are urged to consult their tax advisors regarding the effects of the new legislation on an investment in us."
