[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. Set forth below are risks and uncertainties relating to our business and the ownership of our securities.  These risks and uncertainties may lead to outcomes that could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make expected distributions to our equityholders.  You should carefully consider each of these risks and uncertainties and all of the information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and its Exhibits, including our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto for the year ended December 31, 2017, which are included in a separate section at the end of this report beginning on page F-1.. Our performance and value are subject to risks associated with our properties and with the real estate industry.   Real estate investments are subject to various risks and fluctuations in value and demand, many of which are beyond our control.  Our performance and the value of our real estate assets may decline due to conditions in the general economy and the real estate business which, in turn, could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make expected distributions to our shareholders.  These conditions include, but are not limited to:. • downturns in national, regional and local economic environments, including increases in the unemployment rate and inflation or deflation;. • competition from other properties;. • trends in office real estate that may adversely affect future demand, including telecommuting and flexible workplaces that increase the population density per square foot;. • deteriorating local real estate market conditions, such as oversupply, reduction in demand and decreasing rental rates;. • declining real estate valuations;. • adverse developments concerning our tenants, which could affect our ability to collect rents and execute lease renewals;. • government actions and initiatives, including risks associated with the impact of prolonged government shutdowns and budgetary reductions or impasses, such as a reduction of rental revenues, non-renewal of leases and/or a curtailment of demand for additional space by our strategic customers;. • increasing operating costs, including insurance, utilities, real estate taxes and other expenses, some of which we may not be able to pass through to tenants;. • increasing construction costs for materials and labor;. • increasing vacancies and the need to periodically repair, renovate and re-lease space;. • increasing interest rates and unavailability of financing on acceptable terms or at all;. • unavailability of financing for potential purchasers of our properties;. • adverse changes in taxation or zoning laws;. • potential inability to secure adequate insurance;. • adverse consequences resulting from civil disturbances, natural disasters, terrorist acts or acts of war; and. • potential liability under environmental or other laws or regulations.. We may suffer adverse consequences as a result of adverse economic conditions.  Our business may be affected by adverse economic conditions in the United States economy or real estate industry as a whole or by the local economic conditions in the markets in which our properties are located, including the impact of high unemployment and constrained credit.  Adverse economic conditions could increase the likelihood of tenants encountering financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, insolvency or general downturn of business, and as a result could increase the likelihood of tenants defaulting on their lease obligations to us.  Such conditions also could increase our likelihood of being unsuccessful in renewing tenants, renewing tenants on terms less favorable to us or being unable to lease newly constructed properties.  In addition, such. 10. conditions could increase the level of risk that we may not be able to obtain new financing for development activities, acquisitions, refinancing of existing debt or other capital requirements at reasonable terms, if at all.. We may suffer adverse consequences as a result of our reliance on rental revenues for our income.  We earn revenue from renting our properties.  Our operating costs do not necessarily fluctuate in relation to changes in our rental revenue.  This means that certain of our costs will not necessarily decline and may increase even if our revenues decline.. For new tenants or upon lease expiration for existing tenants, we generally must make improvements and pay other leasing costs for which we may not receive increased rents.  We also make building-related capital improvements for which tenants may not reimburse us.. If our properties do not generate revenue sufficient to meet our operating expenses and capital costs, we may have to borrow additional amounts to cover these costs.  In such circumstances, we would likely have lower profits or possibly incur losses.  We may also find in such circumstances that we are unable to borrow to cover such costs, in which case our operations could be adversely affected.. In addition, the competitive environment for leasing is affected considerably by a number of factors including, among other things, changes due to economic factors such as supply and demand.  These factors may make it difficult for us to lease existing vacant space and space associated with future lease expirations at rental rates that are sufficient to meet our short-term capital needs.. We rely on the ability of our tenants to pay rent and would be harmed by their inability to do so.  Our performance depends on the ability of our tenants to fulfill their lease obligations by paying their rental payments in a timely manner.  As a result, we would be harmed if one or more of our major tenants, or a number of our smaller tenants, were to experience financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, insolvency, government shutdown or general downturn of business.. We may be adversely affected by developments concerning our major tenants or the United States Government and its contractors, including prolonged shutdowns of the government and actual, or potential, reductions in government spending targeting knowledge-based activities.  As of December 31, 2017, our 10 largest tenants accounted for 58.8% of our total annualized rental revenue, the four largest of these tenants accounted for 47.0%, and the United States Government, our largest tenant, accounted for 31.7%.  We calculated annualized rental revenue by multiplying by 12 the sum of monthly contractual base rents and estimated monthly expense reimbursements under active leases in our portfolio as of December 31, 2017; with regard to properties owned through an unconsolidated real estate joint venture, we include the portion of annualized rental revenue allocable to our ownership interest.  For additional information regarding our tenant concentrations, please refer to the section entitled \"Concentration of Operations\" within the section entitled \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\". Most of our leases with the United States Government provide for a series of one-year terms.  The United States Government may terminate its leases if, among other reasons, the United States Congress fails to provide funding.  We would be harmed if any of our four largest tenants fail to make rental payments to us over an extended period of time, including as a result of a prolonged government shutdown, or if the United States Government elects to terminate some or all of its leases and the space cannot be re-leased on satisfactory terms.. As of December 31, 2017, 87.4% of our office and data center shell properties' total annualized rental revenue was from Defense/IT Locations, and we expect to maintain a similarly high revenue concentration of properties in these locations.  A reduction in government spending targeting the activities of the government and its contractors (such as knowledge-based defense and security activities) in these locations could adversely affect our tenants' ability to fulfill lease obligations, renew leases or enter into new leases and limit our future growth from properties in these locations.  Moreover, uncertainty regarding the potential for future reduction in government spending targeting such activities could also decrease or delay leasing activity from tenants engaged in these activities.. We may suffer economic harm in the event of a decline in the real estate market or general economic conditions in the Mid-Atlantic region, particularly in the Greater Washington, DC/Baltimore region, or in particular business parks.  Most of our properties are located in the Mid-Atlantic region of the United States, particularly in the Greater Washington, DC/Baltimore region.  Our properties are also often concentrated in business parks in which we own most of the properties.  Consequently, our portfolio of properties is not broadly distributed geographically.  As a result, we would be harmed by a decline in the real estate market or general economic conditions in the Mid-Atlantic region, the Greater Washington, DC/Baltimore region or the business parks in which our properties are located.. 11. We would suffer economic harm if we were unable to renew our leases on favorable terms.  When leases expire, our tenants may not renew or may renew on terms less favorable to us than the terms of their original leases.  If a tenant vacates a property, we can expect to experience a vacancy for some period of time, as well as incur higher leasing costs than we would likely incur if a tenant renews.  As a result, we may be harmed if we experience a high volume of tenant departures at the end of their lease terms.. We may be adversely affected by trends in the office real estate industry.  Some businesses increasingly permit employee telecommuting, flexible work schedules, open workplaces and teleconferencing.  These practices enable businesses to reduce their space requirements.  These trends could over time erode the overall demand for office space and, in turn, place downward pressure on occupancy, rental rates and property valuations.. We may encounter a decline in the value of our real estate.  The value of our real estate could be adversely affected by general economic and market conditions connected to a specific property, a market or submarket, a broader economic region or the office real estate industry.  Examples of such conditions include a broader economic recession, declining demand and decreases in market rental rates and/or market values of real estate assets.  If our real estate assets decline in value, it could result in our recognition of impairment losses.  Moreover, a decline in the value of our real estate could adversely affect the amount of borrowings available to us under future credit facilities and other loans.. We may not be able to compete successfully with other entities that operate in our industry.  The commercial real estate market is highly competitive.  Numerous commercial properties compete with our properties for tenants.  Some of the properties competing with ours may be newer or in more desirable locations, or the competing properties' owners may be willing to accept lower rates than are acceptable to us.  In addition, we compete for the purchase of commercial property with many entities, including other publicly traded commercial REITs.. Real estate investments are illiquid, and we may not be able to dispose of properties on a timely basis when we determine it is appropriate to do so.  Real estate investments can be difficult to sell and convert to cash quickly, especially if market conditions, including real estate lending conditions, are not favorable.  Such illiquidity could limit our ability to quickly change our portfolio of properties in response to changes in economic or other conditions.  Our failure to successfully execute dispositions could adversely affect our ability to effectively execute our business strategy.  Moreover, under certain circumstances, the Internal Revenue Code imposes certain penalties on a REIT that sells property held for less than two years and limits the number of properties it can sell in a given year.. We are dependent on external sources of capital for growth.  Because COPT is a REIT, it must distribute at least 90% of its annual taxable income to its shareholders.  Due to this requirement, we are not able to significantly fund our development and acquisition activities using retained cash flow from operations.  Therefore, our ability to fund these activities may be dependent on our ability to access debt or equity capital.  Such capital could be in the form of new debt, common shares, preferred shares, common and preferred units in COPLP, joint venture funding or asset sales.  These capital sources may not be available on favorable terms or at all.  Moreover, additional debt financing may substantially increase our leverage and subject us to covenants that restrict management's flexibility in directing our operations, and additional equity offerings may result in substantial dilution of our equityholders' interests.  Our inability to obtain capital when needed could have a material adverse effect on our ability to expand our business and fund other cash requirements.. We often use our Revolving Credit Facility to initially finance much of our investing activities and certain financing activities.  Our lenders under this and other facilities could, for financial hardship or other reasons, fail to honor their commitments to fund our requests for borrowings under these facilities.  If lenders default under these facilities by not being able or willing to fund a borrowing request, it would adversely affect our ability to access borrowing capacity under these facilities.. We may be unable to execute our plans to develop and construct additional properties.  Although the majority of our investments are in currently leased properties, we also develop, construct and redevelop properties, including some that are not fully pre-leased.  When we develop, construct and redevelop properties, we assume the risk that actual costs will exceed our budgets, that we will experience conditions which delay or preclude project completion and that projected leasing will not occur.  In addition, we may find that we are unable to successfully execute plans to obtain construction loans to fund property construction activities.. We may suffer adverse effects from acquisitions of commercial real estate properties.  We may acquire existing commercial real estate properties to the extent that suitable acquisitions can be made on advantageous terms.  Acquisitions of commercial properties entail risks, such as the risk that we may not be in a position, or have the opportunity in the future, to make suitable property acquisitions on advantageous terms and/or that such acquisitions will fail to perform as expected.. 12. We may pursue selective acquisitions of properties in regions where we have not previously owned properties.  These acquisitions may entail risks in addition to those we face in other acquisitions where we are familiar with the regions, such as the risk that we do not correctly anticipate conditions or trends in a new market and therefore are not able to operate the acquired property profitably.. In addition, we may acquire properties that are subject to liabilities in situations where we have no recourse, or only limited recourse, against the prior owners or other third parties with respect to unknown liabilities.  As a result, if a liability were asserted against us based upon ownership of those properties, we might have to pay substantial sums to settle or contest it, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow.  Examples of unknown liabilities with respect to acquired properties include, but are not limited to:. • liabilities for remediation of disclosed or undisclosed environmental contamination;. • claims by tenants, vendors or other persons dealing with the former owners of the properties;. • liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business; and. • claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties.. Our wholesale data center may become obsolete.  Wholesale data centers are much more expensive investments on a per square foot basis than office properties due to the level of infrastructure required to operate the centers.  At the same time, technology, industry standards and service requirements for wholesale data centers are rapidly evolving and, as a result, the risk of investments we make in our wholesale data center becoming obsolete is higher than other commercial real estate properties.  Our wholesale data center may become obsolete due to the development of new systems to deliver power to, or eliminate heat from, the servers housed in the properties, or due to other technological advances.  In addition, we may not be able to efficiently upgrade or change power and cooling systems to meet new demands or industry standards without incurring significant costs that we may not be able to pass on to our tenants.. Certain of our properties containing data centers contain space not suitable for lease other than as data centers, which could make it difficult to reposition them for alternative use.  Certain of our properties contain data center space, which is highly specialized space containing extensive electrical and mechanical systems that are uniquely designed to run and maintain banks of computer servers.  Data centers are subject to obsolescence risks.  In the event that we needed to reposition data center space for another use, the renovations required to do so could be difficult and costly, and we may, as a result, deem such renovations to be impractical.. Our tenants and contractual counterparties could be designated \"Prohibited Persons\" by the Office of Foreign Assets Control.  The Office of Foreign Assets Control of the United States Department of the Treasury (\"OFAC\") maintains a list of persons designated as terrorists or who are otherwise blocked or banned (\"Prohibited Persons\").  OFAC regulations and other laws prohibit us from conducting business or engaging in transactions with Prohibited Persons.  If a tenant or other party with whom we conduct business is placed on the OFAC list or is otherwise a party with whom we are prohibited from doing business, we may be required to terminate the lease or other agreement.. We may suffer adverse effects as a result of the indebtedness that we carry and the terms and covenants that relate to this debt.  Several of our properties are pledged by us to support repayment of indebtedness.  Any foreclosure on our properties could result in loss of income and asset value.  In addition, we rely on borrowings to fund some or all of the costs of construction and development activities, new property acquisitions and other items.. Payments of principal and interest on our debt may leave us with insufficient cash to operate our properties or pay distributions to COPT's shareholders required to maintain its qualification as a REIT.  We are also subject to the risks that:. • we may not be able to refinance our existing indebtedness, or may refinance on terms that are less favorable to us than the terms of our existing indebtedness;. • in the event of our default under the terms of our Revolving Credit Facility, COPLP could be restricted from making cash distributions to COPT, which could result in reduced distributions to our equityholders or the need for us to incur additional debt to fund these distributions; and. • if we are unable to pay our debt service on time or are unable to comply with restrictive financial covenants for certain of our debt, our lenders could foreclose on our properties securing such debt and, in some cases, other properties and assets that we own.. 13. Some of our unsecured debt is cross-defaulted, which means that failure to pay interest or principal on the debt above a threshold value will create a default on certain of our other debt.. If interest rates were to rise, our debt service payments on debt with variable interest rates would increase.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $1.8 billion in debt, the future maturities of which are set forth in Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements.  Our operations likely will not generate enough cash flow to repay all of this debt without additional borrowings, equity issuances and/or property sales.  If we cannot refinance our debt, extend the repayment dates, or raise additional equity prior to the dates when our debt matures, we would default on our existing debt.. Our organizational documents do not limit the amount of indebtedness that we may incur.  Therefore, we may incur additional indebtedness and become more highly leveraged, which could harm our financial position.. A downgrade in our credit ratings would materially adversely affect our business and financial condition.  COPLP's Senior Notes are currently rated investment grade by the three major rating agencies.  These credit ratings are subject to ongoing evaluation by the credit rating agencies and can change.  Any downgrades of our ratings or outlook by the credit rating agencies would have a material adverse impact on our cost and availability of capital and also could have a materially adverse effect on the market price of COPT's common shares.. We have certain distribution requirements that reduce cash available for other business purposes.  Since COPT is a REIT, it must distribute at least 90% of its annual taxable income, which limits the amount of cash that can be retained for other business purposes, including amounts to fund acquisitions and development activity.  Also, it is possible that because of the differences between the time we actually receive revenue or pay expenses and the period during which we report those items for distribution purposes, we may have to borrow funds for COPT to meet the 90% distribution requirement.. We may be unable to continue to make distributions to our equityholders at expected levels.  We expect to make regular quarterly cash distributions to our equityholders.  However, our ability to make such distributions depends on a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control.  Some of our loan agreements contain provisions that could, in the event of default, restrict future distributions.  Our ability to make distributions at expected levels will also be dependent, in part, on other matters, including, but not limited to:. • continued property occupancy and timely receipt of rent from our tenants;. • the amount of future capital expenditures and expenses relating to our properties;. • our leasing activity and future rental rates;. • the strength of the commercial real estate market;. • our ability to compete;. • governmental actions and initiatives, including risks associated with the impact of a prolonged government shutdown or budgetary reductions or impasses;. • our costs of compliance with environmental and other laws;. • our corporate overhead levels;. • our amount of uninsured losses; and. • our decision to reinvest in operations rather than distribute available cash.. In addition, we can make distributions to the holders of our common shares/units only after we make preferential distributions to holders of our preferred shares/units.. Our ability to pay distributions may be limited, and we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to pay distributions regularly.  Our ability to pay distributions will depend on a number of things discussed elsewhere herein, including our ability to operate profitably and generate cash flow from our operations.  We cannot guarantee that we will be able to pay distributions on a regular quarterly basis in the future.  Additionally, the terms of some of COPLP's debt may limit its ability to make some types of payments and other distributions to COPT in the event of certain default situations.  This in turn may limit our ability to make some types of payments, including payment of distributions on common or preferred shares/units, unless we meet certain financial tests or such payments or distributions are required to maintain COPT's qualification as a REIT.  As a result, if we are unable to meet the applicable financial tests, we may not be able to pay distributions in one or more periods.  Furthermore, any new common or preferred shares/units that may be issued in the future for raising capital, financing acquisitions, share-based compensation arrangements or otherwise will increase the cash required to continue to pay cash distributions at current levels.. 14. Our ability to pay distributions is further limited by the requirements of Maryland law.  As a Maryland REIT, COPT may not under applicable Maryland law make a distribution if either of the following conditions exists after giving effect to the distribution: (1) the REIT would not be able to pay its debts as the debts become due in the usual course of business; or (2) the REIT's total assets would be less than the sum of its total liabilities plus the amount that would be needed, if the REIT were dissolved at the time of the distribution, to satisfy upon dissolution the rights of equityholders whose preferential rights are superior to those receiving the distribution.  Therefore, we may not be able to make expected distributions to our equityholders if either of the above described conditions exists for COPT after giving effect to the distribution.. We may issue additional common or preferred shares/units that dilute our equityholders' interests.  We may issue additional common and preferred shares/units without shareholder approval.  Similarly, COPT may cause COPLP to issue its common or preferred units for contributions of cash or property without approval by the limited partners of COPLP or COPT's shareholders.  Our existing equityholders' interests could be diluted if such additional issuances were to occur.. We may suffer economic harm as a result of the actions of our partners in real estate joint ventures and other investments.  We may invest in certain entities in which we are not the exclusive investor or principal decision maker.  Investments in such entities may, under certain circumstances, involve risks not present when a third party is not involved, including the possibility that the other parties to these investments might become bankrupt or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions.  Our partners in these entities may have economic, tax or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, and may be in a position to take actions contrary to our policies or objectives.  Such investments may also lead to impasses on major decisions, such as whether or not to sell a property, because neither we nor the other parties to these investments may have full control over the entity.  In addition, we may in certain circumstances be liable for the actions of the other parties to these investments.. We may be subject to possible environmental liabilities.  We are subject to various Federal, state and local environmental laws, including air and water quality, hazardous or toxic substances and health and safety.  These laws can impose liability on current and prior property owners or operators for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous substances released on a property, even if the property owner was not responsible for, or even aware of, the release of the hazardous substances.  Costs resulting from environmental liability could be substantial.  The presence of hazardous substances on our properties may also adversely affect occupancy and our ability to sell or borrow against those properties.  In addition to the costs of government claims under environmental laws, private plaintiffs may bring claims for personal injury or other reasons.  Additionally, various laws impose liability for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous substances at the disposal or treatment facility.  Anyone who arranges for the disposal or treatment of hazardous substances at such a facility is potentially liable under such laws.  These laws often impose liability on an entity even if the facility was not owned or operated by the entity.. Although most of our properties have been subject to varying degrees of environmental assessment, many of these assessments are limited in scope and may not include or identify all potential environmental liabilities or risks associated with the property.  Identification of new compliance concerns or undiscovered areas of contamination, changes in the extent or known scope of contamination, discovery of additional sites, human exposure to the contamination or changes in cleanup or compliance requirements could result in significant costs to us.. We may be adversely affected by natural disasters and the effects of climate change.  Natural disasters, including earthquakes, storms and hurricanes, as well as the potential consequences of climate change could adversely impact our properties.  Over time, climate change could adversely affect demand for space in our properties or our ability to operate our properties; it could also have indirect effects on our business, including increasing the cost of (or making unavailable) property insurance, increasing the cost of energy and requiring us to expend funds as we seek to repair and protect our properties against such risks.. Terrorist attacks may adversely affect the value of our properties, our financial position and cash flows.  We have significant investments in properties located in large metropolitan areas and near military installations.  Future terrorist attacks could directly or indirectly damage our properties or cause losses that materially exceed our insurance coverage.  After such an attack, tenants in these areas may choose to relocate their businesses to areas of the United States that may be perceived to be less likely targets of future terrorist activity, and fewer customers may choose to patronize businesses in these areas.  This in turn would trigger a decrease in the demand for space in these areas, which could increase vacancies in our properties and force us to lease space on less favorable terms.. We may be subject to other possible liabilities that would adversely affect our financial position and cash flows.  Our properties may be subject to other risks related to current or future laws, including laws relating to zoning, construction, fire and life safety requirements and other matters.  These laws may require significant property modifications in the future and could result in the levy of fines against us.  In addition, although we believe that we adequately insure our properties, we are. 15. subject to the risk that our insurance may not cover all of the costs to restore a property that is damaged by a fire or other catastrophic events, including acts of war or, as mentioned above, terrorism.. We may be subject to increased costs of insurance and limitations on coverage, particularly regarding acts of terrorism.  Our portfolio of properties is insured for losses under our property, casualty and umbrella insurance policies.  These policies include coverage for acts of terrorism.  Future changes in the insurance industry's risk assessment approach and pricing structure may increase the cost of insuring our properties and decrease the scope of insurance coverage.  Most of our loan agreements contain customary covenants requiring us to maintain insurance.  Although we believe that we have adequate insurance coverage for purposes of these agreements, we may not be able to obtain an equivalent amount of coverage at reasonable costs, or at all, in the future.  In addition, if lenders insist on greater coverage than we are able to obtain, it could adversely affect our ability to finance and/or refinance our properties and execute our growth strategies.. Our business could be adversely affected by a negative audit by the United States Government.  Agencies of the United States Government, including the Defense Contract Audit Agency and various agency Inspectors General, routinely audit and investigate government contractors.  These agencies review a contractor's performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and standards.  The United States Government also reviews the adequacy of, and a contractor's compliance with, its internal control systems and policies.  Any costs found to be misclassified may be subject to repayment.  If an audit or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the United States Government.  In addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us.. Our business could be adversely affected by security breaches through cyber attacks, cyber intrusions or otherwise.  We face risks associated with security breaches and other significant disruptions of our information technology networks and related systems, which are essential to our business operations.  Such breaches and disruptions may occur through cyber attacks or cyber intrusions over the Internet, malware, computer viruses, attachments to e-mails, persons inside our organization or persons with access to systems inside our organization.  Because of our concentration on serving the United States Government and its contractors with a general focus on national security and information technology, we may be more likely to be targeted by cyber attacks, including by governments, organizations or persons hostile to our government.  Despite our activities to maintain the security and integrity of our networks and related systems, as well as purchasing available insurance coverage, there can be no absolute assurance that these activities will be effective in mitigating these risks.  A security breach involving our networks and related systems could disrupt our operations in numerous ways, including by creating difficulties for our tenants that may reflect poorly on us.. COPT's ownership limits are important factors.  COPT's Declaration of Trust limits ownership of its common shares by any single shareholder to 9.8% of the number of the outstanding common shares or 9.8% of the value of the outstanding common shares, whichever is more restrictive.  COPT's Declaration of Trust also limits ownership by any single shareholder of our common and preferred shares in the aggregate to 9.8% of the aggregate value of the outstanding common and preferred shares.  We call these restrictions the \"Ownership Limit.\"  COPT's Declaration of Trust allows our Board of Trustees to exempt shareholders from the Ownership Limit.  The Ownership Limit and the restrictions on ownership of our common shares may delay or prevent a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our common shares/units or otherwise be in the best interest of our equityholders.. COPT's Declaration of Trust includes other provisions that may prevent or delay a change of control.  Subject to the requirements of the New York Stock Exchange, our Board of Trustees has the authority, without shareholder approval, to issue additional securities on terms that could delay or prevent a change in control.  In addition, our Board of Trustees has the authority to reclassify any of our unissued common shares into preferred shares.  Our Board of Trustees may issue preferred shares with such preferences, rights, powers and restrictions as our Board of Trustees may determine, which could also delay or prevent a change in control.. The Maryland business statutes impose potential restrictions that may discourage a change of control of our company.  Various Maryland laws may have the effect of discouraging offers to acquire us, even if the acquisition would be advantageous to equityholders.  Resolutions adopted by our Board of Trustees and/or provisions of our bylaws exempt us from such laws, but our Board of Trustees can alter its resolutions or change our bylaws at any time to make these provisions applicable to us.. COPT's failure to qualify as a REIT would have adverse tax consequences, which would substantially reduce funds available to make distributions to our equityholders.  We believe that COPT has qualified for taxation as a REIT for Federal income tax purposes since 1992.  We plan for COPT to continue to meet the requirements for taxation as a REIT.  Many of. 16. these requirements, however, are highly technical and complex.  The determination that we are a REIT requires an analysis of various factual matters and circumstances that may not be totally within our control.  For example, to qualify as a REIT, at least 95% of COPT's gross income must come from certain sources that are specified in the REIT tax laws.  COPT is also required to distribute to shareholders at least 90% of its REIT taxable income (excluding capital gains).  The fact that COPT holds most of its assets through COPLP and its subsidiaries further complicates the application of the REIT requirements.  Even a technical or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize COPT's REIT status.  Furthermore, Congress and the Internal Revenue Service might make changes to the tax laws and regulations and the courts might issue new rulings that make it more difficult or impossible for COPT to remain qualified as a REIT.. If COPT fails to qualify as a REIT, it would be subject to Federal income tax at regular corporate rates.  Also, unless the Internal Revenue Service granted us relief under certain statutory provisions, COPT would remain disqualified as a REIT for four years following the year it first fails to qualify.  If COPT fails to qualify as a REIT, it would have to pay significant income taxes and would therefore have less money available for investments or for distributions to our equityholders.  In addition, if COPT fails to qualify as a REIT, it will no longer be required to pay distributions to shareholders.  As a result of all these factors, COPT's failure to qualify as a REIT could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital and would likely have a significant adverse effect on the value of our shares/units.. We may be adversely impacted by changes in tax laws.  At any time, U.S. federal tax laws or the administrative interpretations of those laws may be changed.  In December 2017, the legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which made widespread changes to the Internal Revenue Code, was signed into law; while we believe that this law generally will have a favorable effect on REITs and their shareholders, uncertainty remains regarding the full effect that this law will have on us and our tenants, equityholders and other stakeholders.  We also cannot predict whether, when or to what extent other new U.S. federal tax laws, regulations, interpretations or rulings will be issued.  As a result, changes in U.S. federal tax laws could negatively impact our operating results, financial condition and business operations, and adversely impact our equityholders.. Occasionally, changes in state and local tax laws or regulations are enacted that may result in an increase in our tax liability.  Shortfalls in tax revenues for states and municipalities in recent years may lead to an increase in the frequency and size of such changes.  If such changes occur, we may be required to pay additional taxes on our assets or income.. A number of factors could cause our security prices to decline.  As is the case with any publicly-traded securities, certain factors outside of our control could influence the value of COPT's common and preferred shares.  These conditions include, but are not limited to:. • market perception of REITs in general and office REITs in particular;. • market perception regarding our major tenants and sector concentrations;. • the level of institutional investor interest in COPT;. • general economic and business conditions;. • prevailing interest rates;. • our financial performance;. • our underlying asset value;. • market perception of our financial condition, performance, dividends and growth potential; and. • adverse changes in tax laws.. We may experience significant losses and harm to our financial condition if financial institutions holding our cash and cash equivalents file for bankruptcy protection.  We believe that we maintain our cash and cash equivalents with high quality financial institutions.  We have not experienced any losses to date on our deposited cash.  However, we may incur significant losses and harm to our financial condition in the future if any of these financial institutions files for bankruptcy protection."
