[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Forward-Looking Statements. This report contains statements that constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the safe-harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, such as statements other than historical facts contained or incorporated by reference in this report. These forward-looking statements include statements with respect to our financial condition, results of operations, plans, objectives, future performance and business, including statements preceded by, followed by or that include the words \"believes,\" \"expects,\" \"anticipates,\" \"plan,\" \"will,\" \"should,\" or \"could,\" references to estimates or goals or similar expressions. Future filings by us with the SEC, and future statements other than historical facts contained in written material, press releases and oral statements issued by us, or on our behalf, may also constitute forward-looking statements.. Forward-looking statements are subject to significant risks and uncertainties, and our actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in such forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause actual results to differ from the results discussed above include, but are not limited to the risk factors set forth below and any other risks identified in this report or in other filings we may make with the SEC. All forward-looking statements contained in this report or which may be contained in future statements made by us or on our behalf are based upon information available at the time the statement is made, and we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.. Risk Factors. An investment in our common stock contains a high degree of risk. In addition to the other information contained in, or incorporated by reference into, this Form 10-K, including the matters addressed under the caption \"Forward-Looking Statements\" above, you should carefully consider the risks described below before deciding whether to invest in our common stock. If any of the events highlighted in the following risks actually occur, or if additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we do not currently believe to be material, materialize, our business, results of operations or financial condition would likely suffer. In such an event, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to the other information contained in our filings with the SEC and this Form 10-K, including our financial statements and related notes.. Risks Related to Our Business. We are subject to specific market risks due to our focus on agricultural lending.. We primarily concentrate our lending activities in the state of Wisconsin, which has a significant agricultural economy. Historically, our senior management's primary business lending experience has been in agricultural lending, with a specific expertise in and focus on dairy and dairy-related businesses. Although we attempt to maintain a diversified customer base and a diversified loan portfolio, we are more heavily dependent upon the agricultural economy than a typical commercial bank. At December 31, 2017, agricultural loans comprised $686.4 million, or approximately 59.7%, of our total loan portfolio, and the Bank also serviced an additional $575.3 million of agricultural loans which generated approximately $5.4 million of servicing fee income.. The agricultural economy is subject to certain risks that are either inherently volatile or are beyond our ability, or the ability of farmers or other participants in the agricultural economy, to predict or control. Some of these risks include, but are not limited to:. •  Weather-Related Risks. Severe weather, including such things as drought, hail, excessive rain or other natural disasters, could impact the quantity and quality of feed necessary to support our borrowers' dairy operations and, in turn, increase. 18. their expenses. If significant adverse weather-related events occur, it could impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans or impair the value of collateral securing loans due to significant property damage, which could either result in loss of revenue or cause us to incur additional expenses.. •  Disease-Related Risks. The operations of our dairy farm and dairy-related borrowers depend primarily on their cattle. If the livestock were to contract an illness or disease, the borrowers would incur additional expenses, and the viability of their operations may be compromised if the disease is not properly managed. The existence of a widespread livestock disease or pandemic could have a significant impact on our borrowers' ability to repay outstanding loans or impair the value of collateral securing loans, which could either result in loss of revenue or cause us to incur additional expenses.. •  Real Property Value. Our dairy farm and dairy-related borrowers tend to grow and produce much of their feed as opposed to purchasing it from third parties, unlike many dairy farmers in other parts of the country. While this means they are often less subject to fluctuations in feed prices, they require more land. Accordingly, declines in real property values in the areas in which we operate could result in a deterioration of the credit quality of our borrowers or an increase in the number of loan delinquencies, default and charge-offs, and could reduce the value of any collateral we realize following a default on agricultural loans.. •  Market Prices. Agricultural markets are sensitive to real and perceived changes in supply and demand of agricultural products, and given that approximately 90% of our agricultural lending is to dairy farms, the credit quality of a substantial portion of our loan portfolio is closely related to the performance of, and supply and demand in, this sub-sector of the agricultural market. For example, the success of a dairy operation hinges in large part on the cost of feed and the price of milk. When feed costs are high and milk prices are low, it places a strain on our dairy borrowers' business, which may impair their ability to repay their outstanding loans to us.. •  Governmental Policies and Regulations. Our agricultural loans are dependent on the profitable operation and management of the farm properties securing the loans and their cash flows, and government policies and regulations (including the availability of price supports for crops and other agricultural products (in particular, milk), subsidies, or government-sponsored crop insurance) are outside the control of our borrowers and may affect the successful operation of a farm.. •  Changing Consumer Preferences.  The business of dairy farms and dairy-related borrowers is subject to changing consumer preferences and nutritional and health-related concerns.  Periodically, medical and other studies are released which raise concerns over the healthfulness of cow's milk in the human diet.  As a result of studies or other cultural influences, the dairy industry could be affected by certain consumer concerns about dairy products, such as the fat, cholesterol, calorie, sodium and lactose content of such products, which could reduce demand for dairy products and negatively affect dairy-related revenue.. Our focus on local markets and agricultural lending creates credit concentration risks.. Credit risk is primarily related to the risk that a borrower will not be able to repay some or all of its obligations to us. Concentrations of credit risk occur when the aggregate amount owed by one borrower, a group of related borrowers, or borrowers within the same or related markets, industries or groups, represent a relatively large percentage of the total capital or total credit extended by a bank. Although each loan in a concentration may be of sound quality, concentration risks represent a risk not present when the same loan amounts are extended to a more diversified group of borrowers. Loans concentrated in one borrower depend, to a large degree, upon the financial capability and character of the individual borrower. Loans made to a group of related borrowers can be susceptible to financial problems experienced by one or a few members of that group. Loans made to borrowers that are part of the same or related industries or groups, or that are located in the same market area, can all be adversely impacted with respect to their ability to repay some or all of their obligations when adverse conditions prevail in the broader economy generally, in the market specifically or even within just the respective industries or groups.. Our lending is primarily to borrowers located or doing business in Wisconsin. Furthermore, at December 31, 2017, we had certain loan-type concentrations of credit risk, specifically in agricultural lending, which are described in more detail in the section of this Form 10-K entitled \"Item 1 - Business - Lending Activities\" and \"Item 1 - Business - General - Market.\" Because of the concentration of agricultural loans in our lending portfolio and the volume of our borrowers in regions dependent upon agriculture, we could be disproportionately affected by changes in the agricultural industry relative to others because these high concentrations present a risk to our lending operations. If any of these borrowers becomes unable to repay their loan obligations for any reason, our nonperforming loans, our allowance for loan losses, and our provision for loan losses could increase significantly, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 19. Our business is dependent on local economies, and a regional or local economic downturn affecting Wisconsin may magnify the adverse effects and consequences to us.. We operate as a community-oriented business bank, with a focus on servicing both business customers and individuals in our market areas, which include our headquarters in Manitowoc, full-service branches in Appleton, Green Bay, and Stevens Point, and a loan production office in each of Darlington, Eau Claire, Fond du Lac, and Sheboygan. Although we have a primary focus on agricultural and business banking, future growth opportunities will depend largely on market area penetration, market area growth and our ability to compete for traditional banking business within our market areas. We anticipate that as a result of this concentration, a downturn in the general economy in our market areas, including Wisconsin specifically, could increase the risk of loss associated with our loan portfolio. Although economic conditions in our markets have been generally strong, there can be no assurance that such conditions will continue to prevail.. Volatility in commodity prices may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. At December 31, 2017, approximately 59.7% of our total loan portfolio was comprised of agricultural loans. Volatility in certain commodity prices, including milk, could adversely impact the ability of those borrowers to perform under the terms of their borrowing arrangements with us. In terms of the dairy industry, milk prices have fluctuated. For the 15-year period ended December 31, 2017, the per-year average Class III milk price (a weighted average price of all uses of milk in a particular milk order) in the United States paid to producers has ranged from an average low price of $11.36 per hundredweight (cwt) in 2009 to an average high price of $22.34 per cwt in 2014, according to the University of Wisconsin - Madison.  During 2017, the Class III milk price was an average of $16.17 per cwt.  \"Hundredweight\" or \"cwt\" is a measure equal to 100 pounds of milk shipped.  A decrease in milk prices may result in an increase in the number of non-performing loans in our agricultural portfolio, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, earnings and capital.. Our business is significantly dependent on the real estate markets where we operate, as a large portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate.. At December 31, 2017, approximately 62.9% of our aggregate loan portfolio, comprising our agriculture real estate loans (including agricultural construction loans), commercial real estate loans and residential real estate loans, was primarily secured by interests in real estate predominantly located in Wisconsin.  Additionally, some of our other lending occasionally involves taking real estate as primary or secondary collateral. Real property values in Wisconsin may be different from, and in some instances worse than, real property values in other markets or in the United States as a whole, and may be affected by a variety of factors outside our control and the control of our borrowers, including national and local economic conditions generally.  The market value of real estate securing our real estate loans can fluctuate significantly in a short period of time as a result of market conditions in the geographic area in which the real estate is located.  Although a significant portion of such loans is secured by real estate as a secondary form of repayment, adverse developments affecting real estate values in Wisconsin could increase the credit risk associated with our loan portfolio and cause an increase in the number of loan delinquencies, defaults and charge-offs.  Additionally, real estate lending typically involves higher loan principal amounts and the repayment of the loans generally is dependent, in large part, on sufficient income from the properties securing the loans to cover operating expenses and debt service.  Economic events or governmental regulations outside of the control of the borrower or lender could negatively impact the future cash flow and market values of the affected properties.. If problems develop in the real estate market, particularly within Wisconsin, the value of collateral securing our real estate loans could decline.  In such case, we may not be able to realize the amount of security that we anticipated at the time of originating the loan, which could cause us to increase our provision for loan losses and adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and/or capital.. Our commercial real estate and commercial loans generally carry greater credit risk than loans secured by owner occupied one-to-four family real estate, and our credit risk may increase if we succeed in our plan to increase our commercial lending.. At December 31, 2017, $407.0 million, or approximately 35.4%, of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial real estate and commercial loans. Given their generally larger balances and the complexity of the underlying collateral, commercial real estate and commercial loans generally expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by owner occupied one-to-four family real estate.  For commercial real estate loans, the principal risk is that repayment is generally dependent on income from tenant leases being generated in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service.  For commercial loans, the principal risk is that repayment is generally dependent upon the successful operation of the borrower's business.  If loans that are collateralized by real estate or other business assets become troubled and the value of the collateral has been significantly impaired, then we may not be able to recover the full contractual amount of principal and interest that we anticipated at the time we originated the loan, which could cause us to increase our provision for loan losses and would adversely affect our operating results.. 20. We are subject to environmental liability risk associated with real estate collateral securing our loans.. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property. Under certain circumstances, we may take title to the real property collateral through foreclosure or other means. As the titleholder of the property, we may be responsible for environmental risks, such as hazardous materials, which attach to the property. For these reasons, prior to extending credit, we have an environmental risk assessment program to identify any known environmental risks associated with the real property that will secure our loans. In addition, we routinely inspect properties following the taking of title. When environmental risks are found, environmental laws and regulations may prescribe our approach to remediation. As a result, while we have ownership of a property, we may incur substantial expense and bear potential liability for any damages caused. The environmental risks may also materially reduce the property's value or limit our ability to use or sell the property. We also cannot guarantee that our environmental risk assessment will detect all environmental issues relating to a property, which could subject us to additional liability.. Our business depends on our ability to successfully manage credit risk.. The operation of our business requires us to manage credit risk. As a lender, we are exposed to the risk that our borrowers will be unable to repay their loans and leases according to their terms, and that the collateral securing repayment of their loans, if any, may not be sufficient to ensure repayment. In addition, there are risks inherent in making any loan, including risks with respect to the period of time over which the loan may be repaid, risks relating to proper loan underwriting, risks resulting from changes in economic and industry conditions and risks inherent in dealing with individual borrowers, including the risk that a borrower may not provide information to us about its business in a timely manner, and/or may present inaccurate or incomplete information to us, and risks relating to the value of collateral. In order to manage credit risk successfully, we must, among other things, maintain disciplined and prudent underwriting standards and ensure that our bankers follow those standards. The weakening of these standards for any reason, such as an attempt to attract higher yielding loans, a lack of discipline or diligence by our employees in underwriting and monitoring loans, the inability of our employees to adequately adapt policies and procedures to changes in economic or any other conditions affecting borrowers and the quality of our loan portfolio, may result in loan defaults, foreclosures and additional charge-offs and may necessitate that we significantly increase our allowance for loan and lease losses, each of which could adversely affect our net income. As a result, our inability to successfully manage credit risk could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Strong competition could hurt our earnings and slow growth.. We face intense competition in making loans and attracting deposits. Price competition for loans and deposits sometimes results in us charging lower interest rates on our loans and paying higher interest rates on our deposits, which may reduce our net interest income.  Many of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer services that we do not provide. We also face competition for agricultural loans from participants in the nationwide Farm Credit System and much larger regional, national and global banks.  Competition also makes it more difficult and costly to attract and retain qualified employees.  We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of non-bank competition in the financial services industry. If we are not able to effectively compete in our market areas and targeted business segments, our profitability may be negatively affected.. Consumers and businesses are increasingly using non-banks to complete their financial transactions, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Technology and other changes are allowing consumers and businesses to complete financial transactions that historically have involved banks through alternative methods. For example, the wide acceptance of internet-based commerce has resulted in a number of alternative payment processing systems and lending platforms in which banks play only minor roles. Customers can now maintain funds in prepaid debit cards or digital currencies, and pay bills and transfer funds directly without the direct assistance of banks. The diminishing role of banks as financial intermediaries has resulted and could continue to result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams and the potential loss of lower cost deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our ability to maintain our reputation is critical to the success of our business, and the failure to do so may materially adversely affect our performance.. We have benefited from strong relationships with our customers, and also from our relationships with financial intermediaries. As a result, our reputation is an important component of our business. A key component of our business strategy is to leverage our reputation for customer service and knowledge of our customers' needs and businesses to expand our presence by capturing new. 21. business opportunities from existing and prospective customers in and outside of our local market areas. We strive to conduct our business in a manner that enhances our reputation. We aim to enhance our reputation, in part, by recruiting, hiring and retaining employees who share our core values of being an integral part of the communities and markets we serve, who are able to connect with customers through on-site visits and knowledge of our customers' businesses, and who care about and deliver superior service to our customers. If our reputation is negatively affected by the actions of our employees, by our inability to conduct our operations in a manner that is appealing to current or prospective customers, or by events beyond our control, our business and operating results may be adversely affected.. Changes in interest rates may hurt our earnings and asset value.. Like other financial institutions, we are subject to interest rate risk. Our primary source of income is net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on interest-earning assets (consisting primarily of loans and securities) and the interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities (consisting primarily of deposits and borrowings). Changes in both the general level of interest rates and in the difference between short-term and long-term rates can affect our net interest income. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including government monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control.. While we pursue an asset/liability strategy designed to mitigate our risk from changes in interest rates, including by seeking to originate variable rate loans and balancing the respective terms of assets and liabilities, changes in interest rates may still have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in the level of interest rates also may negatively affect our ability to originate loans, the value of our assets and liabilities and our ability to realize gains from the sale of our assets, all of which could affect our earnings.. Monetary policies and regulations of the Federal Reserve could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition to being affected by general economic conditions, our earnings and growth are affected by the policies of the Federal Reserve. An important function of the Federal Reserve is to regulate the money supply and credit conditions. Among the instruments used by the Federal Reserve to implement these objectives are open market operations in U.S. government securities, adjustments of the discount rate, and changes in reserve requirements against bank deposits. These instruments are used in varying combinations to influence overall economic growth and the distribution of credit, bank loans, investments and deposits. Their use also affects interest rates charged on loans or paid on deposits.. The monetary policies and regulations of the Federal Reserve have had a significant effect on the operating results of commercial banks in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future. The specific effects of such policies upon our business, financial condition and results of operations cannot be predicted.. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings and capital could decrease.. At December 31, 2017, our allowance for loan losses totaled $13.2 million, which represented 1.15% of gross loans. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loss and delinquency experience, and we evaluate other factors including, among other things, current economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, or if delinquencies or non-performing loans increase, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, which would require additions to our allowance, and could decrease our net income or reduce our capital.. In addition, our regulators, as an integral part of their examination process, periodically review the allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase the allowance for loan losses by recognizing additional provisions for loan losses charged to expense, or to charge off loans, which, net of any recoveries, would decrease the allowance for loan losses. Any such additional provisions for loan losses or charge-offs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We rely on the accuracy and completeness of information about our customers and counterparties, and inaccurate or incomplete information could subject us to various risks.. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with our customers and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. We may also rely on representations as to the accuracy and completeness of such information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors.. 22. While we strive to verify the accuracy and sufficiency of such information, if this information is inaccurate or incomplete, we may be subject to loan losses, regulatory action, reputational harm, or other adverse effects on the operation of our business, results of operations, or financial condition.. We depend on our management team to implement our business strategy and on our relationship managers to maintain and grow our agricultural and commercial relationships, and we could be harmed by the loss of their services.. We are dependent upon the services and expertise of our founders and the other members of our management team who direct our strategy and operations, especially relating to our agricultural lending focus, and we have benefited from our management's extensive banking knowledge and experience in this regard. We also rely heavily upon the talents, experience and customer relationships of our loan officers and have benefited from their expertise and relationship-building skills, especially with respect to our agricultural and commercial lending. Members of our executive management team and our seasoned loan officers could be difficult to replace. Our loss of the services of one or more of these persons, or our inability to hire additional qualified personnel, could impact our ability to implement our business strategy and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Limits on our ability to use brokered deposits as part of our funding strategy may adversely affect our ability to grow.. A \"brokered deposit\" is any deposit that is obtained from or through the mediation or assistance of a deposit broker, which includes larger correspondent banks and securities brokerage firms. These deposit brokers attract deposits from individuals and companies throughout the country and internationally whose deposit decisions are based almost exclusively on obtaining the highest interest rates. We have used brokered deposits in the past, and we intend to continue to use brokered deposits as one of our funding sources to support future growth. At December 31, 2017, brokered deposits represented approximately 25.5% of our total deposits and equaled $282.6 million. There are risks associated with using brokered deposits. In order to continue to maintain our level of brokered deposits, we may be forced to pay higher interest rates than contemplated by our asset-liability pricing strategy. In addition, banks that become less than \"well capitalized\" under applicable regulatory capital requirements may be restricted in their ability to accept or prohibited from accepting brokered deposits.  In addition, banks not considered to be \"well capitalized\" are subject to a cap on interest rates paid to depositors as published by the FDIC. Such depositor interest rate caps could impede our ability to raise local deposits to replace brokered deposits no longer available if we were not considered to be \"well capitalized.\"  If brokered deposits become more difficult to access, we will have to seek alternative funding sources in order to continue to fund our growth. This may include increasing our reliance on the FHLB borrowings, attempting to attract non-brokered deposits, reducing our available for sale securities portfolio and selling loans, potentially at a time when pricing may be unfavorable, which may increase our funding costs and reduce our net interest income and net income.  There can be no assurance that brokered deposits will be available or, if available, sufficient to support our continued growth.. Liquidity risks could affect operations and jeopardize our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Liquidity risk is the risk that we will not be able to meet our obligations, including financial commitments, as they come due and is inherent in our operations. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and/or investment securities and from other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our most important source of funds consists of our customer deposits, which we supplement with other sources such as brokered deposits. Deposit balances can decrease for a variety of reasons, including when customers perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market, as providing a better risk/return tradeoff. If customers move money out of bank deposits and into other investments, we could lose a relatively low cost source of funds. This loss would require us to seek other funding alternatives, including brokered deposits, in order to continue to grow, thereby increasing our funding costs and reducing our net interest income and net income.. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance or capitalize our activities or on terms that are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us directly or the financial services industry or economy in general, such as disruptions in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry. Economic conditions and a loss of confidence in financial institutions may increase our cost of funding and limit access to certain customary sources of capital, including inter-bank borrowings, repurchase agreements and borrowings from the discount window of the Federal Reserve System. There is also the potential risk that collateral calls with respect to our repurchase agreements could reduce our available liquidity.. Any decline in available funding could adversely impact our ability to continue to implement our business plan, including originating loans, investing in securities, meeting our expenses or fulfilling obligations such as repaying our borrowings and meeting deposit withdrawal demands, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, business, financial condition and results of operations.. 23. If a significant portion of any future unrealized losses in our portfolio of investment securities were to become other than temporarily impaired with credit losses, we would recognize a material charge to our earnings, and our capital ratios would be adversely impacted.. Factors beyond our control can significantly influence the fair value of securities in our portfolio and can cause potential adverse changes to the fair value of those securities. These factors include, but are not limited to, changes in interest rates, rating agency downgrades of the securities, defaults by the issuer or individual mortgagors with respect to the underlying securities, and instability in the credit markets. Any of the foregoing factors could cause an other than temporary impairment (\"OTTI\") in future periods and result in realized losses.. We analyze our investment securities quarterly to determine whether, in the opinion of management, any of the securities have OTTI. To the extent that any portion of the unrealized losses in our portfolio of investment securities is determined to have OTTI and is credit-loss related, we will recognize a charge to our earnings in the quarter during which such determination is made, and our capital ratios will be adversely impacted. Generally, a fixed income security is determined to have OTTI when it appears unlikely that we will receive all of the principal and interest due in accordance with the original terms of the investment. In addition to credit losses, losses are recognized for a security with an unrealized loss if the Company has the intent to sell the security or if it is more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell the security before collection of the principal amount.. The occurrence of fraudulent activity, breaches or failures of our information security controls or cybersecurity-related incidents could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. As a bank, we are susceptible to fraudulent activity, information security breaches and cybersecurity-related incidents that may be committed against us or our clients, which may result in financial losses or increased costs to us or our clients, disclosure or misuse of our information or our client information, misappropriation of assets, privacy breaches against our clients, litigation or damage to our reputation.  Such fraudulent activity may take many forms, including check fraud, electronic fraud, wire fraud, phishing, social engineering and other dishonest acts.  Information security breaches and cybersecurity-related incidents may include fraudulent or unauthorized access to systems used by us or our clients, denial or degradation of service attacks and malware or other cyber-attacks.. In recent periods, there continues to be a rise in electronic fraudulent activity, security breaches and cyber-attacks within the financial services industry, especially in the commercial banking sector due to cyber criminals targeting commercial bank accounts.  Moreover, in recent periods, several large corporations, including financial institutions and retail companies, have suffered major data breaches, in some cases exposing not only confidential and proprietary corporate information, but also sensitive financial and other personal information of their customers and employees and subjecting them to potential fraudulent activity. Some of our clients may have been affected by these breaches, which could increase their risks of identity theft and other fraudulent activity that could involve their accounts with us.. Information pertaining to us and our clients is maintained, and transactions are executed, on networks and systems maintained by us and certain third party partners, such as our online banking, mobile banking or accounting systems.  The secure maintenance and transmission of confidential information, as well as execution of transactions over these systems, are essential to protect us and our clients against fraud and security breaches and to maintain the confidence of our clients.  Breaches of information security also may occur through intentional or unintentional acts by those having access to our systems or the confidential information of our clients, including employees.  In addition, increases in criminal activity levels and sophistication, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries, vulnerabilities in third party technologies (including browsers and operating systems) or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the technology, processes and controls that we use to prevent fraudulent transactions and to protect data about us, our clients and underlying transactions, as well as the technology used by our clients to access our systems.  Our third party partners' inability to anticipate, or failure to adequately mitigate, breaches of security could result in a number of negative events, including losses to us or our clients, loss of business or clients, damage to our reputation, the incurrence of additional expenses, disruption to our business, additional regulatory scrutiny or penalties or our exposure to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. We depend on information technology and telecommunications systems of third parties, and any systems failures, interruptions or data breaches involving these systems could adversely affect our operations and financial condition.. Our business is highly dependent on the successful and uninterrupted functioning of our information technology and telecommunications systems, third party servicers, accounting systems, mobile and online banking platforms and financial intermediaries.  We outsource to third parties many of our major systems, such as data processing and mobile and online banking.  The failure of these systems, or the termination of a third party software license or service agreement on which any of these systems is based, could interrupt our operations.  Because our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third party systems, we could experience service denials if demand for such services exceeds capacity or such third party systems fail or experience interruptions.  A system failure or service denial could result in a deterioration of our ability to process loans or gather deposits and provide customer service, compromise our ability to operate effectively, result in potential noncompliance. 24. with applicable laws or regulations, damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business or subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.  In addition, failures of third parties to comply with applicable laws and regulations, or fraud or misconduct on the part of employees of any of these third parties, could disrupt our operations or adversely affect our reputation.. It may be difficult for us to replace some of our third party vendors, particularly vendors providing our core banking and information services, in a timely manner if they are unwilling or unable to provide us with these services in the future for any reason and even if we are able to replace them, it may be at higher cost or result in the loss of customers.  Any such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. Our operations rely heavily on the secure processing, storage and transmission of information and the monitoring of a large number of transactions on a minute-by-minute basis, and even a short interruption in service could have significant consequences.  We also interact with and rely on retailers, for whom we process transactions, as well as financial counterparties and regulators. Each of these third parties may be targets of the same types of fraudulent activity, computer break-ins and other cyber security breaches described above, and the cyber security measures that they maintain to mitigate the risk of such activity may be different than our own and may be inadequate.. As a result of financial entities and technology systems becoming more interdependent and complex, a cyber incident, information breach or loss, or technology failure that compromises the systems or data of one or more financial entities could have a material impact on counterparties or other market participants, including ourselves.  As a result of the foregoing, our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by any significant disruptions to us or to third parties with whom we interact.. We rely on other companies to provide certain key components of our business infrastructure.. Third-party service providers provide certain key components of our business infrastructure, such as data processing and deposit processing systems, mobile payment systems, internet connections, and network access. While we have selected these third-party service providers carefully, we do not control their operations. Any failure by these third parties to perform or provide agreed-upon goods and services for any reason or their poor performance of services could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and otherwise to conduct our business. Replacing these third-party service providers could also entail significant delay and expense.. We may face risks with respect to future acquisitions.. We may continue to attempt to expand our business in Wisconsin or other states through mergers and acquisitions.  We anticipate that we will seek targets that are culturally similar to us, have experienced management and possess either significant market presence or have potential for improved profitability through economies of scale or expanded services. In addition to the general risks associated with our growth plans, acquiring other banks, businesses or branches involves various risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including, among other things, the following:. •  the time and costs associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisition and merger targets;. •  unexpected delays, complications or expenses resulting from regulatory approval requirements or other conditions to closing;. •  inaccuracies in the estimates and judgments used to evaluate credit, operations, management and market risks with respect to the target institution;. •  the time and costs of evaluating new markets, hiring experienced local management, and the time lags between these activities and the generation of sufficient assets and deposits to support the costs of the expansion;. •  our ability to finance an acquisition and possible dilution to our existing shareholders;. •  the diversion of our management's attention to the negotiation of a transaction;. •  the incurrence of an impairment of goodwill associated with an acquisition and adverse effects on our results of operations;. •  entry into new markets where we lack experience; and. •  risks associated with integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired business in a manner that permits growth opportunities and does not materially disrupt existing customer relationships or result in decreased revenues resulting from any loss of customers.. 25. With respect to the risks particularly associated with the integration of an acquired business, we may encounter a number of difficulties, such as: (1) customer loss and revenue loss; (2) the loss of key employees; (3) the disruption of our operations and business; (4) our inability to maintain and increase competitive presence; (5) possible inconsistencies in standards, control procedures and policies; and/or (6) unexpected problems with costs, operations, personnel, technology and credit.. In addition to the risks posed by the integration process itself, the focus of management's attention and effort on integration may result in a lack of sufficient management attention to other important issues, causing harm to our business. Also, general market and economic conditions or governmental actions affecting the financial industry generally may inhibit our successful integration of an acquired business.  Failure to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence and/or other projected benefits from an acquisition could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. If we fail to successfully keep pace with technological change, our business could be materially adversely affected.. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry generally, and virtual banking in particular, could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations.. Our disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud.. We designed our disclosure controls and procedures to reasonably assure that information we must disclose in reports we file or submit under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to management, and recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the SEC. We believe that any disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well-conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met.. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple errors or mistakes. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people or by an unauthorized override of the controls. Accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in our control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected and any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business results of operations and financial condition.. If our risk management framework does not effectively identify or mitigate our risks, we could suffer losses.. Our risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and appropriately balance risk and return. We have established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor and report the types of risk to which we are subject, including credit risk, operations risk, compliance risk, reputation risk, strategic risk, market risk and liquidity risk. We seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a framework of policies, procedures, monitoring and reporting requirements. There may be risks that exist, or that develop in the future, that we have not appropriately anticipated, identified or mitigated. If our risk management framework does not effectively identify or mitigate our risks, we could suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected.. We incur significant costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management is required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives relating to our financial and accounting systems, procedures and controls in order to satisfy our new public company reporting requirements.. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company, and these expenses may increase even more after we are no longer an \"emerging growth company.\" We have made, and will continue to make, changes to our internal controls and procedures for financial reporting and accounting systems to meet our reporting obligations as a stand-alone public company. These obligations increase our operating expenses and could divert management's attention from other aspects of our business.  We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, Dodd-Frank Act, as well as rules adopted, and to be adopted, by the SEC, and the Nasdaq Global Market, except for such requirements that we may elect not to comply with during the period we are an emerging growth company, which could require us to further upgrade our systems and/or hire additional staff, which would increase our operating costs. Our management and other personnel need to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, we expect these rules and regulations to substantially increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. The increased costs may cause. 26. us to incur losses. We cannot predict or estimate the amount or timing of additional costs we may incur to respond to these requirements.. As an \"emerging growth company,\" we are taking advantage of certain temporary exemptions from various reporting requirements, including reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements and an exemption from the requirement to obtain an attestation from our auditors on management's assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. When these exemptions cease to apply, we expect to incur additional expenses and devote increased management effort toward ensuring compliance with them.. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us.. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default by our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations or earnings.. Risks Related to Our Industry. We may be materially and adversely affected by the highly regulated environment in which we operate.. We are subject to extensive federal and state regulation, supervision and examination. A more detailed description of the primary federal and state banking laws and regulations that affect us is contained in Item 1 of this Form 10-K in the section captioned \"Supervision and Regulation.\" Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors' funds, FDIC funds, customers and the banking system as a whole, rather than our stockholders.  These regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things.. As a bank holding company, we are subject to extensive regulation and supervision and undergo periodic examinations by our regulators, who have extensive discretion and authority to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law by banks and financial holding companies.  Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil monetary penalties and/or damage to our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on us.  Although we have policies and procedures designed to mitigate the risk of any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur.. Current or proposed regulatory or legislative changes to laws applicable to the financial industry may impact the profitability of our business activities and may change certain of our business practices, including our ability to offer new products, obtain financing, attract deposits, make loans and achieve satisfactory interest spreads, and could expose us to additional costs, including increased compliance costs. These changes also may require us to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes to operations in order to comply and could therefore also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The financial services industry, as well as the broader economy, may be subject to new legislation, regulation, and government policy.. At this time, it is difficult to predict the legislative and regulatory changes that will occur in the future, especially as lawmakers have advocated for significant reduction of financial services regulation, to include amendments to the Dodd-Frank Act and structural changes to the CFPB. The current presidential administration and Congress also may cause broader economic changes due to changes in governing ideology and governing style. New appointments to the Federal Reserve could affect monetary policy and interest rates, and changes in fiscal policy could affect broader patterns of trade and economic growth. Future legislation, regulation, and government policy could affect the banking industry as a whole, including our business and results of operations, in ways that are difficult to predict. In addition, our results of operations also could be adversely affected by changes in the way in which existing statutes and regulations are interpreted or applied by courts and government agencies.. 27. Our growth or future losses may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed or the cost of that capital may be very high.. We are required by our regulators to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We believe our current level of capital is sufficient to permit us to maintain regulatory capital compliance for the foreseeable future. Nonetheless, we may at some point need to raise additional capital to support continued growth or to address losses.. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and on our financial condition and performance. Accordingly, we may not be able to raise additional capital if needed on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our operations and our financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, if we are unable to raise additional capital if required by the Federal Reserve, we may be subject to adverse regulatory action.. We face a risk of noncompliance with and enforcement actions under the Bank Secrecy Act and other anti-money laundering statutes and regulations.. We maintain systems and procedures designed to ensure that we comply with applicable laws and regulations. The federal Bank Secrecy Act, the USA PATRIOT Act, and other laws and regulations require financial institutions, among other duties, to institute and maintain effective anti-money laundering programs and file suspicious activity and currency transaction reports as appropriate. The federal Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, established by the Treasury to administer the Bank Secrecy Act, is authorized to impose significant civil money penalties for violations of those requirements and has recently engaged in coordinated enforcement efforts with the individual federal banking regulators, as well as the U.S. Department of Justice, Drug Enforcement Administration and Internal Revenue Service. Federal and state bank regulators also have begun to focus on compliance with Bank Secrecy Act and anti-money laundering regulations. If our policies, procedures and systems are deemed deficient, we would be subject to liability, including fines and regulatory actions such as restrictions on our ability to pay dividends and the necessity to obtain regulatory approvals to proceed with certain aspects of our business plan, including future acquisition plans, which would negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could also have serious reputational consequences for us.. Changes in accounting standards and policies may negatively affect our performance.. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time there are changes in the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how we report and record our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised accounting standard retroactively, which could have a negative impact on our reported results.. A new accounting standard may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. The FASB has adopted a new accounting standard that will be effective for the Company and the Bank for our first fiscal year after December 15, 2019.  This standard, referred to as Current Expected Credit Loss, or CECL, will require financial institutions to determine periodic estimates of lifetime expected credit losses on loans, and recognize the expected credit losses as allowances for loan losses.  This will change the current method of providing allowances for loan losses that are probable, which may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses, and to greatly increase the types of data we will need to collect and review to determine the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or expenses incurred to determine the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our ability to pay dividends is dependent upon the Bank's performance.. The Company's only source of funds to pay dividends is dividends or other distributions it may receive directly from the Bank. The Company's payment of dividends in the future, if any, will be subject to legal, regulatory and contractual restrictions (including with respect to junior subordinated debentures (and related trust preferred securities (\"TruPS\")), which are senior to our shares of preferred and common stock and have a preference on dividends), and will also depend on the Bank's earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other factors considered relevant by our board of directors. Dividends are payable on shares at the discretion of our board of directors, subject to the provisions of the Wisconsin Business Corporation Law, and any regulatory restrictions.. 28. The stock market can be volatile, and fluctuations in our operating results and other factors could cause our stock price to decline.. The stock market has experienced, and may continue to experience, fluctuations that significantly impact the market prices of securities issued by many companies. Market fluctuations could adversely affect our stock price. These fluctuations have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations, as well as general economic, systemic, political and market conditions, such as recessions, loss of investor confidence, interest rate changes, or international currency fluctuations, may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Moreover, our operating results may fluctuate and vary from period to period due to the risk factors set forth herein. As a result, period-to-period comparisons should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Our stock price could fluctuate significantly in response to our quarterly or annual results, annual projections and the impact of these risk factors on our operating results or financial position.. We are subject to examinations and challenges by tax authorities that may be costly and time-consuming and may require expensive remedial action or other costs.. In the normal course of business, the Company and the Bank are routinely subject to examinations and challenges from federal and state tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due in connection with investments that both entities have made and the businesses in which they have engaged. Federal and state taxing authorities have over the past few years become increasingly aggressive in challenging tax positions taken by financial institutions. These tax positions may relate to tax compliance, sales and use, franchise, gross receipts, payroll, property and income tax issues, including tax base, apportionment and tax credit planning. The challenges made by tax authorities may result in adjustments to the timing or amount of taxable income or deductions or the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions. If not resolved in our favor, such challenges could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations."
