[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. A description of the risks and uncertainties associated with our business is set forth below. You should carefully consider the risks described below, as well as the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes and \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,\" particularly before deciding whether to invest in our securities. The occurrence of any of the events or developments described below could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. In such an event, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations.. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. We have a limited operating history, which makes it difficult to predict our future operating results.. We were incorporated in 2006 and introduced our first software module shortly thereafter and over time have invested in building our integrated platform. As a result of our limited operating history, our ability to forecast our future operating results is limited and subject to a number of uncertainties, including our ability to plan for and model future growth. We have encountered and will encounter risks and uncertainties frequently experienced by growing companies in rapidly changing industries, such as the risks and uncertainties described herein. If our assumptions regarding these risks and uncertainties (which we use to plan our business) are incorrect or change, or if we do not address these risks successfully, our operating and financial results could differ materially from our expectations and our business could suffer.. Any success that we may experience in the future will depend, in large part, on our ability to manage the risks discussed herein and to, among other things:. •  retain and expand our customer base on a cost-effective basis;. •  successfully compete in our markets;. •  continue to add features and functionality to our platform to meet customer demand;. •  increase revenues from existing customers as they add users or purchase additional modules;. •  continue to invest in research and development;. •  scale our internal business operations in an efficient and cost-effective manner;. •  scale our global customer success organization to make our customers successful in their business spend management deployments;. •  help our partners to be successful in deployments of our platform;. 12. •  successfully expand our business domestically and internationally;. •  successfully protect our intellectual property and defend against intellectual property infringement claims; and. •  hire, integrate and retain professional and technical talent.. If we are unable to attract new customers, the growth of our revenues will be adversely affected.. To increase our revenues, we must add new customers, increase the number of users at existing customers and sell additional modules to current customers. As our industry matures or if competitors introduce lower cost and/or differentiated products or services that are perceived to compete with ours, our ability to sell based on factors such as pricing, technology and functionality could be impaired. As a result, we may be unable to attract new customers at rates or on terms that would be favorable or comparable to prior periods, which could have an adverse effect on the growth of our revenues.. Because our platform is sold to large enterprises with complex operating environments, we encounter long and unpredictable sales cycles, which could adversely affect our operating results in a given period.. Our ability to increase revenues and achieve profitability depends, in large part, on widespread acceptance of our platform by large enterprises. As we target our sales efforts at these customers, we face greater costs, longer sales cycles and less predictability in completing some of our sales. As a result of the variability and length of the sales cycle, we have only a limited ability to forecast the timing of sales. A delay in or failure to complete sales could harm our business and financial results, and could cause our financial results to vary significantly from period to period. Our sales cycle varies widely, reflecting differences in potential customers' decision-making processes, procurement requirements and budget cycles, and is subject to significant risks over which we have little or no control, including:. •  customers' budgetary constraints and priorities;. •  the timing of customers' budget cycles;. •  the need by some customers for lengthy evaluations; and. •  the length and timing of customers' approval processes.. In the large enterprise market, the customer's decision to use our platform may be an enterprise-wide decision; therefore, these types of sales require us to provide greater levels of education regarding the use and benefits of our platform, which causes us to expend substantial time, effort and money educating them as to the value of our platform. In addition, because we are a relatively new company with a limited operating history, our target customers may prefer to purchase software that is critical to their business from one of our larger, more established competitors. Our typical sales cycle can range from three to nine months, and we expect that this lengthy sales cycle may continue or increase. Longer sales cycles could cause our operating and financial results to suffer in a given period.. If our security measures are breached or unauthorized access to customer data is otherwise obtained, our platform may be perceived as not being secure, customers may reduce the use of or stop using our platform and we may incur significant liabilities.. Our platform involves the storage and transmission of our customers' sensitive proprietary information, including their spending and other related data. As a result, unauthorized access or security breaches could result in the loss of information, litigation, indemnity obligations and other liability. While we have security measures in place that are designed to protect customer information and prevent data loss and other security breaches, if these measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and someone obtains unauthorized access to our customers' data, we could face loss of business, regulatory investigations or orders, our reputation could be severely damaged, we could be required to expend significant capital and other resources to alleviate the problem, as well as incur significant costs and liabilities, including due to litigation, indemnity obligations, damages for contract breach, penalties for violation of applicable laws or regulations, and costs for remediation and other incentives offered to customers or other business partners in an effort to maintain business relationships after a breach.. 13. We cannot assure you that any limitations of liability provisions in our contracts would be enforceable or adequate or would otherwise protect us from any liabilities or damages with respect to any particular claim relating to a security lapse or breach. We also cannot be sure that our existing insurance coverage will continue to be available on acceptable terms or will be available in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims related to a security breach, or that the insurer will not deny coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceed available insurance coverage, or the occurrence of changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, including our financial condition, operating results, and reputation.. Cyber-attacks and other malicious Internet-based activities continue to increase generally. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not identified until they are launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. In addition, third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or users to disclose information to gain access to our data or our customers' data. While it did not involve any customer data, we have previously suffered the loss of certain employee information related to an employee error. If any of these events occur, our or our customers' information could be accessed or disclosed improperly. Any or all of these issues could negatively affect our ability to attract new customers, cause existing customers to elect to not renew their subscriptions, result in reputational damage or subject us to third-party lawsuits, regulatory fines or other action or liability, which could adversely affect our operating results.. The markets in which we participate are intensely competitive, and if we do not compete effectively, our operating results could be adversely affected.. The market for business spend management software is highly competitive, with relatively low barriers to entry for some software or service organizations. Our competitors include Oracle Corporation (\"Oracle\") and SAP AG (\"SAP\"), well-established providers of business spend management software that have long-standing relationships with many customers. Some customers may be hesitant to switch vendors or to adopt cloud-based software such as ours and prefer to maintain their existing relationships with their legacy software vendors. Oracle and SAP are larger and have greater name recognition, much longer operating histories, larger marketing budgets and significantly greater resources than we do. These vendors, as well as other competitors, may offer business spend management software on a standalone basis at a low price or bundled as part of a larger product sale. In order to take advantage of customer demand for cloud-based software, legacy vendors are expanding their cloud-based software through acquisitions and organic development. For example, SAP acquired Ariba, Inc. and Concur Technologies, Inc. Legacy vendors may also seek to partner with other leading cloud providers. We also face competition from custom-built software vendors and from vendors of specific applications, some of which offer cloud-based solutions. We may also face competition from a variety of vendors of cloud-based and on-premise software products that address only a portion of our platform. In addition, other companies that provide cloud-based software in different target markets may develop software or acquire companies that operate in our target markets, and some potential customers may elect to develop their own internal software. With the introduction of new technologies and market entrants, we expect this competition to intensify in the future.. Many of our competitors are able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products and services. Furthermore, our current or potential competitors may be acquired by third parties with greater available resources and the ability to initiate or withstand substantial price competition. In addition, many of our competitors have established marketing relationships, access to larger customer bases and major distribution agreements with consultants, system integrators and resellers. Our competitors may also establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties that may further enhance their product offerings or resources. If our platform does not become more accepted relative to our competitors', or if our competitors are successful in bringing their products or services to market earlier than ours, or if their products or services are more technologically capable than ours, then our revenues could be adversely affected. In addition, some of our competitors may offer their products and services at a lower price. If we are unable to achieve our target pricing levels, our operating results will be negatively affected. Pricing pressures and increased competition could result in reduced sales, reduced margins, losses or a failure to maintain or improve our competitive market position, any of which could adversely affect our business.. 14. Our business depends substantially on our customers renewing their subscriptions and purchasing additional subscriptions from us. Any decline in our customer renewals would harm our future operating results.. In order for us to maintain or improve our operating results, it is important that our customers renew their subscriptions when the initial contract term expires and add additional authorized users and additional business spend management modules to their subscriptions. Our customers have no obligation to renew their subscriptions, and we cannot assure you that our customers will renew subscriptions with a similar contract period or with the same or a greater number of authorized users and modules. Some of our customers have elected not to renew their agreements with us, and we may not be able to accurately predict renewal rates.. Our renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including our customers' satisfaction with our subscription service, our professional services, our customer support, our prices and contract length, the prices of competing solutions, mergers and acquisitions affecting our customer base, the effects of global economic conditions or reductions in our customers' spending levels. Our future success also depends in part on our ability to add additional authorized users and modules to the subscriptions of our current customers. If our customers do not renew their subscriptions, renew on less favorable terms or fail to add more authorized users or additional business spend management modules, our revenues may decline, and we may not realize improved operating results from our customer base.. If we fail to develop widespread brand awareness cost-effectively, our business may suffer.. We believe that developing and maintaining widespread awareness of our brand in a cost-effective manner is critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our platform and attracting new customers. For example, widespread awareness of our brand is critical to ensuring that we are invited to participate in requests for proposals from prospective customers. Our success in this area will depend on a wide range of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including the following:. •  the efficacy of our marketing efforts;. •  our ability to offer high-quality, innovative and error- and bug-free modules;. •  our ability to retain existing customers and obtain new customers;. •  the ability of our customers to achieve successful results by using our platform;. •  the quality and perceived value of our platform;. •  our ability to successfully differentiate our offerings from those of our competitors;. •  actions of competitors and other third parties;. •  our ability to provide customer support and professional services;. •  any misuse or perceived misuse of our platform and modules;. •  positive or negative publicity;. •  interruptions, delays or attacks on our platform or modules; and. •  litigation, legislative or regulatory-related developments.. Brand promotion activities may not generate customer awareness or increase revenues, and, even if they do, any increase in revenues may not offset the expenses we incur in building our brand. If we fail to successfully promote and maintain our brand, or incur substantial expenses, we may fail to attract or retain customers necessary to realize a sufficient return on our brand-building efforts or to achieve the widespread brand awareness that is critical for broad customer adoption of our platform.. 15. Furthermore, negative publicity (whether or not justified) relating to events or activities attributed to us, our employees, our partners or others associated with any of these parties, may tarnish our reputation and reduce the value of our brand. Damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity could reduce demand for our platform and have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Moreover, any attempts to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of our brands may be costly and time consuming, and such efforts may not ultimately be successful.. We have experienced rapid growth and expect our growth to continue and if we fail to manage our growth effectively, we may be unable to execute our business plan, maintain high levels of service or adequately address competitive challenges.. We have experienced a rapid growth in our business, headcount and operations since inception. We have also significantly increased the size of our customer base. We anticipate that we will continue to expand our operations and headcount, including internationally. This growth has placed, and future growth will place, a significant strain on our management, administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. Our success will depend in part on our ability to manage this growth effectively. To manage the expected growth of our operations and personnel, we will need to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. Failure to effectively manage growth could result in difficulty or delays in deploying customers, declines in quality or customer satisfaction, increases in costs, difficulties in introducing new features and/or other operational difficulties, any of which could adversely affect our business performance and results of operations.. Because we recognize subscription revenues over the term of the contract, fluctuations in new sales will not be immediately reflected in our operating results and may be difficult to discern.. We generally recognize subscription revenues from customers ratably over the terms of their contracts, which are typically three years, although some customers commit for shorter periods. As a result, most of the subscription revenues we report on each quarter are derived from the recognition of deferred revenue relating to subscriptions entered into during previous quarters. Consequently, a decline in new or renewed subscriptions in any single quarter would likely have only a small impact on our revenues for that quarter. However, such a decline would negatively affect our revenues in future quarters. Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our platform, and potential changes in our pricing policies or rate of renewals, may not be fully apparent from our reported results of operations until future periods.. We may be unable to adjust our cost structure to reflect the changes in revenues. In addition, a significant majority of our costs are expensed as incurred, while subscription revenues are recognized over the life of the customer agreement. As a result, increased growth in the number of our customers could result in our recognition of more costs than revenues in the earlier periods of the terms of our agreements. Our subscription model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenues through additional sales in any period, as revenues from new customers must be recognized over the applicable subscription term.. Professional services are generally sold on a fixed-fee or time-and-materials basis. Revenues for time-and-material arrangements are recognized as the services are performed. For fixed-fee and other types of arrangements, revenues are generally deferred and recognized upon the completion of the project under the completed performance method of accounting. During the fourth quarter of the fiscal year ended January 31, 2017, we developed the ability to accurately estimate professional services costs on a project basis. As such, revenue for fixed-fee and other types of arrangements entered into after the third quarter of the fiscal year ended January 31, 2017 is recognized as services are performed under the proportional performance method of accounting.. Our quarterly results may fluctuate significantly and may not fully reflect the underlying performance of our business.. Our quarterly results of operations, as well as our key metrics discussed elsewhere in this annual report, including the levels of our revenues, gross margin, cash flow and deferred revenue, may vary significantly in the future and period-to-period comparisons of our operating results and key metrics may not be meaningful. Accordingly, the results of any one quarter should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Our quarterly financial results and metrics may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of. 16. our control; as a result, they may not fully reflect the underlying performance of our business. These quarterly fluctuations may negatively affect the value of our common stock. Factors that may cause these fluctuations include, without limitation:. •  our ability to attract new customers;. •  the addition or loss of large customers, including through acquisitions or consolidations;. •  the timing of recognition of revenues;. •  the amount and timing of operating expenses;. •  general economic, industry and market conditions, both domestically and internationally;. •  the timing of our billing and collections;. •  customer renewal and expansion rates;. •  significant security breaches of, technical difficulties with, or interruptions to the delivery and use of our products on our platform;. •  the amount and timing of completion of professional services engagements;. •  increases or decreases in the number of users for our platform or pricing changes upon any renewals of customer agreements;. •  changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors;. •  seasonal variations in sales of our software subscriptions, which have historically been highest in the fourth quarter of a calendar year but may vary in future quarters;. •  the timing and success of new module introductions by us or our competitors or any other change in the competitive dynamics of our industry, including consolidation among competitors, customers or strategic partners;. •  changes in foreign currency exchange rates;. •  extraordinary expenses such as litigation or other dispute-related expenses or settlement payments;. •  sales tax and other tax determinations by authorities in the jurisdiction in which we conduct business;. •  the impact of new accounting pronouncements and the adoption thereof;. •  fluctuations in stock-based compensation expense;. •  expenses in connection with mergers, acquisitions or other strategic transactions; and. •  the timing of expenses related to the development or acquisition of technologies or businesses and potential future charges for impairment of goodwill or intangibles from acquired companies.. Acquisitions could be difficult to identify, pose integration challenges, divert the attention of management, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value, and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. We have in the past acquired and may in the future seek to acquire or invest in businesses, products or technologies that we believe could complement or expand our platform, enhance our technical capabilities or otherwise offer growth opportunities. For example, in May 2017, we purchased substantially all of the issued and outstanding capital stock held by shareholders of Trade Extensions TradeExt AB, a Swedish corporation that specializes in strategic sourcing and in December 2017, we acquired Simeno Holdings AG, a catalog management company. Acquisitions may disrupt our business, divert our resources and require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for development of our existing business.. 17. In addition, we have limited experience in acquiring other businesses and we may not be able to integrate the acquired personnel, operations and technologies successfully, or effectively manage the combined business following the acquisition. We also may not achieve the anticipated benefits from the acquired business due to a number of factors, including:. •  inability to integrate or benefit from acquired technologies or services in a profitable manner;. •  unanticipated costs, accounting charges or other liabilities associated with the acquisition;. •  incurrence of acquisition-related costs;. •  difficulty integrating the accounting systems, operations and personnel of the acquired business;. •  difficulties and additional expenses associated with supporting legacy products and hosting infrastructure of the acquired business, including due to language, geographical or cultural differences;. •  difficulty converting the customers of the acquired business onto our platform and contract terms, including disparities in the revenues, licensing, support or professional services model of the acquired company;. •  adverse effects to our existing business relationships with business partners and customers as a result of the acquisition;. •  the potential loss of key employees;. •  use of resources that are needed in other parts of our business; and. •  use of substantial portions of our available cash to consummate the acquisition.. In addition, a significant portion of the purchase price of companies we acquire may be allocated to acquired goodwill and other intangible assets, which must be assessed for impairment at least annually. In the future, if our acquisitions do not yield expected returns, we may be required to take charges to our operating results based on this impairment assessment process, which could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, our exposure to risks associated with various claims, including the use of intellectual property, may be increased as a result of acquisitions of other companies. For example, we may have a lower level of visibility into the development process with respect to intellectual property or the care taken to safeguard against infringement risks with respect to the acquired company or technology. In addition, third parties may make infringement and similar or related claims after we have acquired technology that has not been asserted prior to our acquisition.. Acquisitions could also result in dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, which could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, if an acquired business fails to meet our expectations, our operating results, business and financial position may suffer.. We may be sued by third parties for various claims including alleged infringement of their proprietary rights.. We are involved in various legal matters arising from normal course of business activities. These may include claims, suits, and other proceedings involving alleged infringement of third-party patents and other intellectual property rights, as well as commercial, corporate and securities, labor and employment, wage and hour, and other matters. In particular, there has been considerable activity in our industry to develop and enforce intellectual property rights. Our success depends upon our not infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others. Our competitors, as well as a number of other entities and individuals, may own or claim to own intellectual property relating to our industry. In the past third parties have claimed and in the future third parties may claim that we are infringing upon their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to be infringing upon such rights. For example, between March 2012 and August 2014 and between May 2014 and September 2015, we and Ariba, Inc. were involved in patent and trade secret litigation cases, each of which eventually resulted in a settlement agreement that requires us to maintain certain ongoing compliance measures that if challenged, could be costly, time-consuming and divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations.. 18. We may experience future claims that our platform and underlying technology infringe or violate others' intellectual property rights, and we may be found to be infringing upon such rights. We may be unaware of the intellectual property rights that others may claim cover some or all of our technology or services. Any claims or litigation could cause us to incur significant expenses and, if successfully asserted against us, could require that we pay substantial damages or ongoing royalty payments, prevent us from offering our services or require that we comply with other unfavorable terms. We may also be obligated to indemnify our customers and business partners or to pay substantial settlement costs, including royalty payments, in connection with any such claim or litigation and to obtain licenses, modify our platform or refund fees, which could be costly. Even if we were to prevail in such a dispute, any litigation regarding our intellectual property could be costly, distracting and time-consuming and could harm our brand, business, results of operations and financial condition.. The profitability of our customer relationships may fluctuate.. Our business model focuses on maximizing the lifetime value of our customer relationships and we need to make significant investments in order to add new customers to grow our customer base. The profitability of a customer relationship in any particular period depends in part on how long the customer has been a subscriber on our platform. In general, the upfront costs associated with new customers are higher in the first year than the aggregate revenues we recognize from those new customers in the first year.. We review the lifetime value and associated acquisition costs of our customers, as discussed further in \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" in this annual report. The lifetime value of our customers and customer acquisition costs has and will continue to fluctuate from one period to another depending upon the amount of our net new subscription revenues (which depends on the number of new customers in a period, upsells of additional modules to existing customers and changes in subscription fees charged to existing customers), gross margins (which depends on investments in and other changes to our cost of customer support and allocated overhead), sales and marketing expenses and renewal rates (which depend on our ability to maintain or grow subscription fees from customers). These amounts have fluctuated from quarter to quarter and will continue to fluctuate in the future. We may not experience lifetime value to customer acquisition cost ratios in future years or periods similar to those we have achieved to date. Other companies may calculate lifetime value and customer acquisition costs differently than our chosen method and, therefore, may not be directly comparable.. We depend on our senior management team and the loss of our chief executive officer or one or more key employees or an inability to attract and retain highly skilled employees could adversely affect our business.. Our success depends largely upon the continued services of our key executive officers. In particular, our chief executive officer, Robert Bernshteyn, is critical to our vision, strategic direction, culture and overall business success. We also rely on our leadership team in the areas of research and development, marketing, sales, services and general and administrative functions, and on mission-critical individual contributors in research and development. From time to time, there may be changes in our executive management team resulting from the hiring or departure of executives, which could disrupt our business. We do not maintain key-man insurance for Mr. Bernshteyn or any other member of our senior management team. We do not have employment agreements with our executive officers or other key personnel that require them to continue to work for us for any specified period and, therefore, they could terminate their employment with us at any time. The loss of one or more of our executive officers or key employees could have a serious adverse effect on our business.. To execute our growth plan, we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel. Competition for these personnel is intense, especially for engineers with high levels of experience in designing and developing software for Internet-related services. We have from time to time experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining employees with appropriate qualifications. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources than we have. If we hire employees from competitors or other companies, their former employers may attempt to assert that these employees or our company have breached their legal obligations, resulting in a diversion of our time and resources. In addition, job candidates and existing employees in the San Francisco Bay Area often consider the value of the stock awards they receive in connection with their employment. If the perceived value of our stock declines, it may adversely affect our ability to recruit and retain highly skilled employees. If we fail to attract new personnel or fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business and future growth prospects could be adversely affected.. 19. We have a history of cumulative losses, and we do not expect to be profitable for the foreseeable future.. We have incurred significant losses in each period since our inception in 2006. We incurred net losses of $43.8 million, $37.6 million and $46.2 million in the fiscal years ended January 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. We had an accumulated deficit of $204.5 million, $160.5 million and $122.9 million at January 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Our losses and accumulated deficit reflect the substantial investments we made to acquire new customers and develop our platform. We expect our operating expenses to increase in the future due to anticipated increases in sales and marketing expenses, research and development expenses, operations costs and general and administrative costs, and, therefore, we expect our losses to continue for the foreseeable future. Furthermore, to the extent we are successful in increasing our customer base, we will also incur increased losses because costs associated with acquiring customers are generally incurred up front, while subscription revenues are generally recognized ratably over the terms of the agreements (typically three years, although some customers commit for shorter periods). You should not consider our recent growth in revenues as indicative of our future performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will achieve profitability in the future, or that, if we do become profitable, we will sustain profitability or achieve our target margins on a midterm or long-term basis.. We do not have a long history with our subscription or pricing models and changes could adversely affect our operating results.. We have limited experience with respect to determining the optimal prices and contract length for our platform. As the markets for our software subscriptions grow, as new competitors introduce new products or services that compete with ours or as we enter into new international markets, we may be unable to attract new customers at the same price or based on the same pricing model as we have used historically. For example, customers may demand pricing models that include price adjustments that are correlated to the savings they realize using our products and services. While this is not and has not been our pricing model, we have discussed it with some customers in the past and may choose to implement it in the future. Moreover, regardless of pricing model used, large customers, which are the focus of our sales efforts, may demand higher price discounts than in the past. As a result, in the future we may be required to reduce our prices, offer shorter contract durations or offer alternative pricing models, which could adversely affect our revenues, gross margin, profitability, financial position and cash flow.. If we are not able to provide successful and timely enhancements, new features and modifications for our platform and modules, we may lose existing customers or fail to attract new customers and our revenues and financial performance may suffer.. If we are unable to provide enhancements and new features for our existing modules or new modules that achieve market acceptance or to integrate technology, products and services that we acquire into our platform, our business could be adversely affected. The success of enhancements, new features and modules depends on several factors, including the timely completion, introduction and market acceptance of the enhancements or new features or modules. Failure in this regard may significantly impair the growth of our revenues. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, delays in the planned release dates of enhancements to our platform, and we have discovered, and may in the future discover, errors in new releases after their introduction. Either situation could result in adverse publicity, loss of sales, delay in market acceptance of our platform or customer claims, including, among other things, warranty claims against us, any of which could cause us to lose existing customers or affect our ability to attract new customers.. We rely heavily on Amazon Web Services to deliver our platform and modules to our customers, and any disruption in service from Amazon Web Services or material change to our arrangement with Amazon Web Services could adversely affect our business.. We rely heavily upon Amazon Web Services (\"AWS\") to operate certain aspects of our platform and any disruption of or interference with our use of AWS could impair our ability to deliver our platform and modules to our customers, resulting in customer dissatisfaction, damage to our reputation, loss of customers and harm to our business. We have architected our software and computer systems to use data processing, storage capabilities and other services provided by AWS. Currently, our cloud service infrastructure is run on AWS. Given this, we cannot easily switch our AWS operations to another cloud provider, so any disruption of or interference with our use of AWS would adversely affect our operations and potentially our business.. 20. AWS provides us with computing and storage capacity pursuant to an agreement that continues until terminated by either party. AWS may terminate the agreement for cause with 30 days' prior written notice, including any material default or breach of the agreement by us that we do not cure within the 30 day period. Additionally, AWS has the right to terminate the agreement immediately with notice to us in certain scenarios such as if AWS believes providing the services could create a substantial economic or technical burden or material security risk for AWS, or in order to comply with the law or requests of governmental entities. The agreement requires AWS to provide us their standard computing and storage capacity and related support in exchange for timely payment by us. If any of our arrangements with AWS were terminated, we could experience interruptions in our software as well as delays and additional expenses in arranging new facilities and services.. We utilize third-party data center hosting facilities operated by AWS, located in various facilities around the world. Our operations depend, in part, on AWS's abilities to protect these facilities against damage or interruption due to a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, human or software errors, natural disasters, power or telecommunications failures, criminal acts, capacity constraints and similar events. For instance, in February 2017, AWS suffered a significant outage in the United States that had a widespread impact on the ability of certain of our customers to fully use our modules for a small period of time. Despite precautions taken at these data centers, the occurrence of spikes in usage volume, a natural disaster, an act of terrorism, vandalism or sabotage, a decision to close a facility without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems at a facility could result in lengthy interruptions in the availability of our platform. Even with current and planned disaster recovery arrangements, our business could be harmed. Also, in the event of damage or interruption, our insurance policies may not adequately compensate us for any losses that we may incur. These factors in turn could further reduce our revenues, subject us to liability and cause us to issue credits or cause customers to fail to renew their subscriptions, any of which could harm our business.. If we are unable to implement and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting in the future, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and the market price of our common stock may be negatively affected.. As a public company, we are required to maintain internal controls over financial reporting and to report any material weaknesses in such internal controls. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (\"Sarbanes-Oxley Act\") requires that we evaluate and determine the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and provide a management report on the internal controls over financial reporting, which must be attested to by our independent registered public accounting firm. If we have a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting, we may not detect errors on a timely basis and our financial statements may be materially misstated.. While we were able to determine the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in our management's report for fiscal 2018, as well as provide an unqualified attestation report from our independent registered public accounting firm to that effect, in the future, we may not be able to complete our evaluation, testing, and any required remediation in a timely fashion, or otherwise assert that our internal controls are effective, and additionally, our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to formally attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If in the future we identify material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, if we are unable to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, if we are unable to assert that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion as to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and the market price of our common stock could be negatively affected, and we could become subject to investigations by the Securities and Exchange Commission (\"SEC\"), stock exchange or other regulatory authorities, which could require additional financial and management resources to address.. Privacy concerns and laws or other domestic or foreign regulations may reduce the effectiveness of our platform and adversely affect our business.. Our customers can use our platform to collect, use and store certain types of personal or identifying information regarding their employees and suppliers. Federal, state and foreign government bodies and agencies have adopted, are considering adopting or may adopt laws and regulations regarding the collection, use, storage and disclosure of personal information obtained from consumers and individuals, such as compliance with the Health. 21. Insurance Portability and Accountability Act and the recently created EU-U.S. Privacy Shield. The costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, such laws and regulations that are applicable to the businesses of our customers may limit the use and adoption of our platform and reduce overall demand or lead to significant fines, penalties or liabilities for any noncompliance with such privacy laws. Furthermore, privacy concerns may cause our customers' employees to resist providing the personal data necessary to allow our customers to use our platform effectively. Even the perception of privacy concerns, whether or not valid, may inhibit market adoption of our platform in certain industries.. All of these domestic and international legislative and regulatory initiatives may adversely affect our customers' ability to process, handle, store, use and transmit demographic and personal information from their employees, customers and suppliers, which could reduce demand for our platform. The European Union (\"EU\") and many countries in Europe have stringent privacy laws and regulations, which may affect our ability to operate cost effectively in certain European countries. In particular, the EU has adopted the General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\") which will go into effect in early 2018 and contains numerous requirements and changes, including more robust obligations on data processors and heavier documentation requirements for data protection compliance programs by companies. Complying with the GDPR may cause us to incur substantial operational costs or require us to change our business practices. Despite our efforts to bring practices into compliance before the effective date of the GDPR, we may not be successful either due to internal or external factors such as resource allocation limitations or a lack of vendor cooperation. Non-compliance could result in proceedings against us by governmental entities or others. We may also experience difficulty retaining or obtaining new European or multi-national customers due to the compliance cost, potential risk exposure, and uncertainty for these entities. We may find it necessary to establish systems to maintain personal data originating from the EU in the European Economic Area, which may involve substantial expense and distraction from other aspects of our business. In the meantime, there could be uncertainty as to how to comply with EU privacy law.. The loss of one or more of our key customers could negatively affect our ability to market our platform.. We rely on our reputation and recommendations from key customers in order to promote subscriptions to our platform. The loss of any of our key customers could have a significant impact on our revenues, reputation and our ability to obtain new customers. In addition, acquisitions of our customers could lead to cancellation of our contracts with those customers or by the acquiring companies, thereby reducing the number of our existing and potential customers.. Our business could be adversely affected if our customers are not satisfied with the implementation services provided by us or our partners.. Our business depends on our ability to satisfy our customers, both with respect to our platform and modules and the professional services that are performed to help our customers use features and functions that address their business needs. Professional services may be performed by our own staff, by a third-party partner or by a combination of the two. Our strategy is to work with partners to increase the breadth of capability and depth of capacity for delivery of these services to our customers, and we expect the number of our partner-led implementations to continue to increase over time. If a customer is not satisfied with the quality of work performed by us or a partner or with the type of professional services or modules delivered, we may incur additional costs to in addressing the situation, the profitability of that work might be impaired and the customer's dissatisfaction with our services could damage our ability to expand the number of modules subscribed to by that customer. In addition, negative publicity related to our customer relationships, regardless of its accuracy, may further damage our business by affecting our ability to compete for new business with current and prospective customers.. 22. We typically provide service level commitments under our customer contracts. If we fail to meet these contractual commitments, we could be obligated to provide credits or refunds for prepaid amounts related to unused subscription services or face contract terminations, which could adversely affect our revenues.. Our customer agreements typically provide service level commitments on a monthly basis. If we are unable to meet the stated service level commitments or suffer extended periods of unavailability for our platform, we may be contractually obligated to provide these customers with service credits, typically 10% of the customer's subscription fees for the month in which the service level was not met, and we could face contract terminations, in which case we would be subject to refunds for prepaid amounts related to unused subscription services. Our revenues could be significantly affected if we suffer unexcused downtime under our agreements with our customers. Any extended service outages could adversely affect our reputation, revenues and operating results.. If we fail to integrate our platform with a variety of third-party technologies, our platform may become less marketable and less competitive or obsolete and our operating results may be harmed.. Our platform must integrate with a variety of third-party technologies, and we need to continuously modify and enhance our platform to adapt to changes in cloud-enabled hardware, software, networking, browser and database technologies. Any failure of our platform to operate effectively with future technologies could reduce the demand for our platform, resulting in customer dissatisfaction and harm to our business. If we are unable to respond to these changes in a cost-effective manner, our platform may become less marketable and less competitive or obsolete and our operating results may be negatively affected. In addition, an increasing number of individuals within the enterprise are utilizing mobile devices to access the Internet and corporate resources and to conduct business. If we cannot continue to effectively make our platform available on these mobile devices and offer the information, services and functionality required by enterprises that widely use mobile devices, we may experience difficulty attracting and retaining customers.. Any failure to offer high-quality technical support services may adversely affect our relationships with our customers and our financial results.. Once our modules are implemented, our customers depend on our support organization to resolve technical issues relating to our modules. We may be unable to respond quickly enough to accommodate short-term increases in customer demand for support services. We also may be unable to modify the format of our support services to compete with changes in support services provided by our competitors. Increased customer demand for these services, without corresponding revenues, could increase costs and adversely affect our operating results. In addition, our sales process is highly dependent on our platform and business reputation and on positive recommendations from our existing customers. Any failure to maintain high-quality technical support, or a market perception that we do not maintain high-quality support, could adversely affect our reputation, our ability to sell subscriptions to our modules to existing and prospective customers and our business, operating results and financial position.. Failure to adequately expand our direct sales force will impede our growth.. We will need to continue to expand and optimize our sales infrastructure in order to grow our customer base and our business. We plan to continue to expand our direct sales force, both domestically and internationally. Identifying and recruiting qualified personnel and training them in the use of our software requires significant time, expense and attention. It often takes six months or longer before our sales representatives are fully-trained and productive. Our business may be adversely affected if our efforts to expand and train our direct sales force do not generate a corresponding increase in revenues. In particular, if we are unable to hire, develop and retain talented sales personnel or if new direct sales personnel are unable to achieve desired productivity levels in a reasonable period of time, we may not be able to realize the expected benefits of this investment or increase our revenues.. 23. Sales to customers outside the United States or with international operations expose us to risks inherent in international sales.. A key element of our growth strategy is to expand our international operations and develop a worldwide customer base. The combined revenues from non-U.S. regions, as determined based on the billing address of our customers, constituted 35%, 32% and 28% of our total revenues for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Operating in international markets requires significant resources and management attention and will subject us to regulatory, economic and political risks that are different from those in the United States. Because of our limited experience with international operations, our international expansion efforts may not be successful in creating additional demand for our platform outside of the United States or in effectively selling subscriptions to our platform in all of the international markets we enter. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to grow our combined revenues from non-U.S. regions as a percentage of our total revenues. In addition, we will face risks in doing business internationally that could adversely affect our business, including:. •  the need to localize and adapt our platform for specific countries, including translation into foreign languages and associated expenses;. •  data privacy laws that require customer data to be stored and processed in a designated territory;. •  difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations and working with foreign partners;. •  different pricing environments, longer sales cycles and longer accounts receivable payment cycles and collections issues;. •  new and different sources of competition;. •  weaker protection for intellectual property and other legal rights than in the United States and practical difficulties in enforcing intellectual property and other rights outside of the United States;. •  laws and business practices favoring local competitors;. •  compliance challenges related to the complexity of multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations, including employment, tax, privacy and data protection laws and regulations;. •  increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities;. •  restrictions on the transfer of funds;. •  fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could increase the price of our products outside of the United States, increase the expenses of our international operations and expose us to foreign currency exchange rate risk;. •  adverse tax consequences; and. •  unstable regional and economic political conditions.. As we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international sales and operations. Our failure to manage any of these risks successfully, or to comply with these laws and regulations, could harm our operations, reduce our sales and harm our business, operating results and financial condition. For example, in certain foreign countries, particularly those with developing economies, certain business practices that are prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, may be more commonplace. Although we have policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations, our employees, contractors and agents, as well as channel partners involved in our international sales, may take actions in violation of our policies. Any such violation could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation.. Some of our business partners also have international operations and are subject to the risks described above. Even if we are able to successfully manage the risks of international operations, our business may be adversely affected if our business partners are not able to successfully manage these risks.. 24. Weakened global economic conditions may harm our industry, business and results of operations.. Our overall performance depends in part on worldwide economic conditions. Global financial developments and downturns seemingly unrelated to us or the enterprise software industry may harm us. The United States and other key international economies have been affected by falling demand for a variety of goods and services, restricted credit, poor liquidity, reduced corporate profitability, volatility in credit, equity and foreign exchange markets, bankruptcies, and overall uncertainty with respect to the economy. In particular, the economies of countries in Europe have been experiencing weakness associated with high sovereign debt levels, weakness in the banking sector and uncertainty over the future of the Euro zone, including instability surrounding \"Brexit,\" the United Kingdom's decision to exit the European Union. We have operations, as well as current and potential new customers, throughout most of Europe. If economic conditions in Europe and other key markets for our platform continue to remain uncertain or deteriorate further, many customers may delay or reduce their information technology spending.. The growth of our revenues and potential profitability of our business depends on demand for platform and modules generally, and business spend management specifically. In addition, our revenues are dependent on the number of users of our modules. Historically, during economic downturns there have been reductions in spending on enterprise software as well as pressure for extended billing terms or pricing discounts, which would limit our ability to grow our business and negatively affect our operating results. These conditions affect the rate of enterprise software spending and could adversely affect our customers' ability or willingness to subscribe to our platform, delay prospective customers' purchasing decisions, reduce the value or duration of their subscriptions or affect renewal rates, all of which could harm our operating results.. Our reported financial results may be adversely affected by changes in accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.. Generally accepted accounting principles in the United States are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\"), the SEC and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results for periods prior and subsequent to such change. For example, recent new standards issued by the FASB that could materially impact our financial statements include revenue from contracts with customers, certain improvements to employee share-based payment accounting, accounting for leases and the Convertible Notes. We may adopt one or more of these standards retrospectively to prior periods and the adoption may result in an adverse change to previously reported results. Additionally, the adoption of these standards may potentially require enhancements or changes in our systems and will require significant time and cost on behalf of our financial management.. We have elected to adopt the new revenue recognition standard on February 1, 2018 using a modified retrospective approach. Based on our assessment to date, the primary impact of the new standard on us is the removal of the current limitation on contingent revenue. In addition, commissions accounting under the new standard is significantly different than our current capitalization policy. The new standard results in additional types of costs that will be capitalized and amounts that will be amortized over a period longer than our current policy of amortizing the deferred amounts over the specific revenue contract-terms. Specifically, incremental contract costs will be deferred and amortized over an estimated customer life of five years, which is calculated based on quantitative and qualitative factors. The new standard also requires incremental disclosures including information about the remaining transaction price and when we expect to recognize revenue which will begin in the filing of the first quarter Form 10-Q for the year ending January 31, 2019. We have implemented control activities related to the adoption of the new standard, particularly related to evaluating the impact of the standard on our revenue recognition policies, the determination of average customer life, and the new disclosure requirements, and did not require the implementation of new information technology systems.. The prescribed periods of adoption of these standards and other pending changes in accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, are further discussed in Note 2 \"Significant Accounting Policies - Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements and New Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted\" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report.. 25. We may face exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. As our international operations expand, our exposure to the effects of fluctuations in currency exchange rates grows because our international contracts are sometimes denominated in local currencies, in particular with respect to the Euro, British Pound Sterling, Swedish Krona and Australian Dollar. Over time, an increasing portion of our international contracts may be denominated in local currencies. Therefore, as exchange rates vary, revenue, cost of revenue, operating expenses and other operating results, when re-measured, may differ materially from expectations. We do not currently engage in currency hedging activities to limit the risk of exchange rate fluctuations. However, in the future, we may use derivative instruments, such as foreign currency forward and option contracts, to hedge certain exposures to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The use of such hedging activities may not offset any or more than a portion of the adverse financial effects of unfavorable movements in foreign exchange rates over the limited time the hedges are in place. Additionally, the use of hedging instruments may introduce additional risks if we are unable to structure effective hedges with such instruments. Moreover, we anticipate growing our business further outside of the United States, and the effects of movements in currency exchange rates will increase as our transaction volume outside of the United States increases.. If we cannot continue to expand the use of our platform beyond our initial focus on our procurement and invoicing modules, our ability to grow our business may be harmed and the growth rate of our revenues may decline.. To date, most of our sales have involved our procurement and invoicing modules, which are the most mature modules on our platform. Any factor adversely affecting sales of these modules, including software release cycles, market acceptance, product competition, performance and reliability, reputation, price competition and economic and market conditions, could adversely affect our business and operating results. Furthermore, our ability to grow our business depends in part on our ability to compete in the market for the other modules on our platform, including strategic sourcing, inventory, contracts, supplier management and spend analysis. Our efforts to market these other modules is relatively new, and it is uncertain whether these other modules will ever result in significant revenues for us. While we have recently acquired businesses related to certain of these modules, there can be no assurance that these acquisitions will facilitate our efforts to market and sell these other modules. Further, the introduction of new modules beyond these markets may not be successful.. Large customers often demand more configuration and integration services, or customized features and functions that we do not offer, which could adversely affect our business and operating results.. Large customers may demand more configuration and integration services, which increase our upfront investment in sales and deployment efforts, with no guarantee that these customers will increase the scope of their subscription. As a result of these factors, we must devote a significant amount of sales support and professional services resources to individual customers, increasing the cost and time required to complete sales. Additionally, our platform does not currently permit customers to modify our code. If prospective customers require customized features or functions that we do not offer and that would be difficult for them to deploy themselves, then the market for our platform will be more limited and our business could suffer.. If our platform fails to perform properly, our reputation could be adversely affected, our market share could decline and we could be subject to liability claims.. Our platform is inherently complex and may contain material defects or errors. Any defects in functionality or that cause interruptions in the availability of our platform could result in:. •  loss or delayed market acceptance and sales;. •  breach of warranty claims;. •  sales credits or refunds for prepaid amounts related to unused subscription services;. •  loss of customers;. •  diversion of development and customer service resources; and. •  injury to our reputation.. 26. The costs incurred in correcting any material defects or errors might be substantial and could adversely affect our operating results.. Because of the large amount of data that we collect and manage, it is possible that hardware failures or errors in our systems could result in data loss or corruption or cause the information that we collect to be incomplete or contain inaccuracies that our customers regard as significant. Furthermore, the availability or performance of our platform could be adversely affected by a number of factors, including customers' inability to access the Internet, failure of our network or software systems, security breaches or variability in user traffic for our platform. We may be required to issue credits or refunds for prepaid amounts related to unused services or otherwise be liable to our customers for damages they incur resulting from certain of these events. For example, our customers access our modules through their Internet service providers. If a service provider fails to provide sufficient capacity to support our modules or otherwise experiences service outages, such failure could interrupt our customers' access to our modules and adversely affect their perception of our modules' reliability. In addition to potential liability, if we experience interruptions in the availability of our platform, our reputation could be adversely affected and we could lose customers.. Our errors and omissions insurance may be inadequate or may not be available in the future on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, our policy may not cover all claims made against us and defending a suit, regardless of its merit, could be costly and divert management's attention.. If we fail to manage our technical operations infrastructure, our existing customers may experience service outages and our new customers may experience delays in the implementation of our platform.. We have experienced significant growth in the number of users, transactions and data that our operations infrastructure supports. We seek to maintain sufficient excess capacity in our operations infrastructure to meet the needs of all of our customers, as well as to facilitate the rapid provision of new customer implementations and the expansion of existing customer implementations. In addition, we need to properly manage our technological operations infrastructure in order to support version control, changes in hardware and software parameters and the evolution of our platform. However, the provision of new hosting infrastructure requires significant lead time. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, website disruptions, outages and other performance problems. These problems may be caused by a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, human or software errors, viruses, security attacks, fraud, spikes in customer usage and denial of service issues. In some instances, we may not be able to identify the cause or causes of these performance problems within an acceptable period of time. If we do not accurately predict our infrastructure requirements, our customers may experience service outages that may subject us to financial penalties, financial liabilities and customer losses. If our operations infrastructure fails to keep pace with increased sales, customers may experience delays as we seek to obtain additional capacity, which could adversely affect our revenue as well as our reputation.. Our growth depends in part on the success of our strategic relationships with third parties.. We have established strategic relationships with a number of other companies. In order to grow our business, we anticipate that we will continue to establish and maintain relationships with third parties, such as implementation partners, system integrator partners and technology providers. Identifying partners, and negotiating and documenting relationships with them, requires significant time and resources. Our competitors may be effective in providing incentives to third parties to favor their products or services or to prevent or reduce subscriptions to our services. In addition, acquisitions of our partners by our competitors could result in a decrease in the number of our current and potential customers, as our partners may no longer facilitate the adoption of our platform by potential customers.. If we are unsuccessful in establishing or maintaining our relationships with third parties, our ability to compete in the marketplace or to grow our revenues could be impaired and our operating results could suffer. Even if we are successful in our strategic relationships, we cannot assure you that these relationships will result in increased customer usage of our platform or increased revenues.. 27. Any failure to protect our intellectual property rights could impair our ability to protect our proprietary technology and our brand.. Our success and ability to compete depend in part upon our intellectual property. We primarily rely on copyright, patent, trade secret and trademark laws, trade secret protection and confidentiality or contractual agreements with our employees, customers, partners and others to protect our intellectual property rights. However, the steps we take to protect our intellectual property rights may be inadequate.. In order to protect our intellectual property rights, we may be required to expend significant resources to monitor and protect such rights. Litigation brought to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could be costly, time-consuming and distracting to management and could result in the impairment or loss of portions of our intellectual property. Furthermore, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights may be met with defenses, counterclaims and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights. Our failure to secure, protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could seriously adversely affect our brand and our business.. Our platform utilizes open source software, and any failure to comply with the terms of one or more of these open source licenses could negatively affect our business.. Our platform utilizes software governed by open source licenses, including for example the MIT License and the Apache License. The terms of various open source licenses have not been interpreted by United States courts, and there is a risk that such licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to market our platform. By the terms of certain open source licenses, if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner, we could be required to release the source code of our proprietary software and make it available under open source licenses. In the event that portions of our proprietary software are determined to be subject to an open source license, we could be required to publicly release the affected portions of our source code, or to re-engineer all or a portion of our technologies or otherwise be limited in the licensing of our technologies, each of which could reduce or eliminate the value of our technologies and services. In addition to risks related to license requirements, the use of open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on the origin of the software. Many of the risks associated with the use of open source software cannot be eliminated and could negatively affect our business.. We employ third-party licensed software for use in or with our platform, and the inability to maintain these licenses or errors in the software we license could result in increased costs, or reduced service levels, which could adversely affect our business.. Our platform incorporates certain third-party software obtained under licenses from other companies. We anticipate that we will continue to rely on such third-party software and development tools from third parties in the future. Although we believe that there are commercially reasonable alternatives to the third-party software we currently license, this may not always be the case, or it may be difficult or costly to replace. In addition, integration of the software used in our platform with new third-party software may require significant work and require substantial investment of our time and resources. Also, to the extent that our platform depends upon the successful operation of third-party software in conjunction with our software, any undetected errors or defects in this third-party software could prevent the deployment or impair the functionality of our platform, delay new module introductions, result in a failure of our modules and injure our reputation. Our use of additional or alternative third-party software would require us to enter into license agreements with third parties.. If we cannot maintain our company culture as we grow, we could lose the innovation, teamwork, passion and focus on execution that we believe contribute to our success and our business may be harmed.. We believe that a critical component of our success has been our company culture, which is based on our core values of ensuring customer success, focusing on results and striving for excellence. We have invested substantial time and resources in building our team within this company culture. As we grow and develop the infrastructure of a public company, we may find it difficult to maintain these important aspects of our company culture. If we fail to preserve our culture, our ability to retain and recruit personnel and to effectively focus on and pursue our corporate objectives could be compromised, potentially harming our business.. 28. We have incurred and will continue to incur significantly increased costs and devote substantial management time as a result of operating as a public company.. As a public company, we have incurred and will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. For example, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and are required to comply with the applicable requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, as well as rules and regulations subsequently implemented by the SEC and the Nasdaq Global Select Market, including the establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and changes in corporate governance practices. Compliance with these requirements has increased our legal and financial compliance costs and made some activities more time consuming and costly. In addition, our management and other personnel need to divert attention from operational and other business matters to devote substantial time to these public company requirements. In particular, we are incurring significant expenses and devoting substantial management effort toward ensuring ongoing compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which have increased now that we are no longer an emerging growth company, as defined by the JOBS Act. We have hired and may need to continue to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge and maintain an internal audit function. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur as a result of becoming a public company or the timing of such costs.. We may not be able to secure additional financing on favorable terms, or at all, to meet our future capital needs.. We have funded our operations since inception primarily through equity and debt financings and prepayments by customers. We do not know when or if our operations will generate sufficient cash to fund our ongoing operations. In the future, we may require additional capital to respond to business opportunities, challenges, acquisitions, a decline in the level of customer prepayments or unforeseen circumstances and may determine to engage in equity or debt financings or enter into credit facilities for other reasons, and we may not be able to timely secure additional debt or equity financing on favorable terms, or at all. Any debt financing obtained by us in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity, convertible debt securities or other securities convertible into equity, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution in their percentage ownership of our company, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock or our outstanding noteholders. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us when we require it, our ability to continue to grow or support our business and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited.. Our customers may fail to pay us in accordance with the terms of their agreements, necessitating action by us to compel payment.. We typically enter into multiple year, non-cancelable arrangements with our customers. If customers fail to pay us under the terms of our agreements, we may be adversely affected both from the inability to collect amounts due and the cost of enforcing the terms of our contracts, including litigation. The risk of such negative effects increases with the term length of our customer arrangements. Furthermore, some of our customers may seek bankruptcy protection or other similar relief and fail to pay amounts due to us, or pay those amounts more slowly, either of which could adversely affect our operating results, financial position and cash flow.. Contractual disputes with our customers could be costly, time-consuming and harm our reputation.. Our business is contract intensive and we are party to contracts with our customers all over the world. Our contracts can contain a variety of terms, including service levels, security obligations, indemnification and regulatory requirements. Contract terms may not always be standardized across our customers and can be subject to differing interpretations, which could result in disputes with our customers from time to time. If our customers notify us of a contract breach or otherwise dispute our contract, the resolution of such disputes in a manner adverse to our interests could negatively affect our operating results.. 29. Pursuant to agreements with certain of our customers, we have placed, and in the future may be required to place in escrow the source code of some of our modules. Under these escrow arrangements, the source code pertaining to the modules may, in specified circumstances, be made available to our customers. This factor may increase the likelihood of misappropriation or other misuse of our modules.. Our business is subject to the risks of earthquakes, fire, floods and other natural catastrophic events, and to interruption by man-made problems such as power disruptions, computer viruses, data security breaches or terrorism.. Our corporate headquarters are located in the San Francisco Bay Area, a region known for seismic activity. A significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, fire or flood, occurring at our headquarters, at one of our other facilities or where a business partner is located could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Further, if a natural disaster or man-made problem were to affect Internet service providers, this could adversely affect the ability of our customers to use our products and platform. Although we maintain incident management and disaster response plans, in the event of a major disruption caused by a natural disaster or man-made problem, we may be unable to continue our operations and may endure system interruptions, reputational harm, delays in our development activities, lengthy interruptions in service, breaches of data security and loss of critical data, any of which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We are subject to the tax laws of various jurisdictions, which are subject to unanticipated changes and to interpretation, which could harm our future results.. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and foreign jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of expenses in differing jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings and losses in countries with differing statutory tax rates, certain non-deductible expenses as a result of acquisitions, the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, and changes in federal, state, or international tax laws and accounting principles. Further, each jurisdiction has different rules and regulations governing sales and use, value added, and similar taxes, and these rules and regulations are subject to varying interpretations that change over time. Certain jurisdictions in which we did not collect such taxes may assert that such taxes are applicable, which could result in tax assessments, penalties, and interest, and we may be required to collect such taxes in the future. In addition, we may be subject to income tax audits by many tax jurisdictions throughout the world, many of which have not established clear guidance on the tax treatment of cloud-based companies. Any tax assessments, penalties, and interest, or future requirements may adversely affect our results of operations. Moreover, imposition of such taxes on us going forward would effectively increase the cost of our products to our customers and might adversely affect our ability to retain existing customers or to gain new customers in the areas in which such taxes are imposed.. In addition, the application of the tax laws of various jurisdictions, including the United States, to our international business activities is subject to interpretation and depends on our ability to operate our business in a manner consistent with our corporate structure. As we operate in numerous taxing jurisdictions, the application of tax laws can also be subject to diverging and sometimes conflicting interpretations by tax authorities of these jurisdictions.. 30. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive federal tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the \"Tax Act\"). The Tax Act makes changes to the corporate tax rate, business-related deductions and taxation of foreign earnings, among others, that will generally be effective for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017. These changes could have a material adverse impact on the value of our U.S. deferred tax assets, result in significant one-time charges in the current or future taxable years and increase our future U.S. tax expense.  For example, while the Tax Act allows for federal net operating losses incurred in tax years beginning prior to December 31, 2017 to be carried forward indefinitely, the Tax Act also imposes an 80% limitation on the use of net operating losses that are generated in tax years beginning after December 31, 2017. We are continuing to evaluate the Tax Act and its requirements, as well as its application to our business and its impact on our effective tax rate. At this stage, it is unclear how many U.S. states will incorporate these federal law changes, or portions thereof, into their tax codes. The implementation by us of new practices and processes designed to comply with, and benefit from, the Tax Act and its rules and regulations could require us to make substantial changes to our business practices, allocate additional resources, and increase our costs, which could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We may not be able to utilize a significant portion of our net operating loss or research tax credit carryforwards, which could adversely affect our potential profitability.. We have federal and state net operating loss carryforwards due to prior period losses, which if not utilized will begin to expire in 2026 and 2029 for federal and state purposes, respectively. These net operating loss carryforwards could expire unused and be unavailable to offset future income tax liabilities, which could adversely affect our potential profitability.. In addition, under Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"), our ability to utilize net operating loss carryforwards or other tax attributes, such as research tax credits, in any taxable year may be limited if we experience an \"ownership change.\" Such an \"ownership change\" generally occurs if one or more stockholders or groups of stockholders who own at least 5% of our stock increase their ownership by more than 50 percentage points over their lowest ownership percentage within a rolling three-year period. Similar rules may apply under state tax laws. As of our initial public offering and our subsequent follow-on offering we have not had an ownership change that has triggered any material limitation on the use of our tax attributes for purposes of Section 382 of the Code. Subsequent changes in our stock ownership, however, could cause an \"ownership change.\" It is possible that an ownership change, or any future ownership change, could have a material effect on the use of our net operating loss carryforwards or other tax attributes, which could adversely affect our potential profitability.. Changes in laws and regulations related to the Internet could increase the costs of our services and adversely affect our business.. Federal, state or foreign government bodies or agencies have in the past adopted, and may in the future adopt, laws or regulations affecting the use of the Internet as a commercial medium. Changes in these laws or regulations could require changes in our business in order to comply with these changes. In particular, the application of federal, state, local and international tax laws to services provided electronically is evolving. New income, sales, use or other tax laws, statutes, rules, regulations or ordinances could be enacted at any time (possibly with retroactive effect) and could be applied solely or disproportionately to services provided over the Internet. These enactments could adversely affect our sales activity due to the inherent cost increase the taxes would represent and ultimately result in a negative impact on our operating results and cash flows.. In addition, existing tax laws, statutes, rules, regulations or ordinances could be interpreted, changed, modified or applied adversely to us (possibly with retroactive effect), which could require us or our customers to pay additional tax amounts, as well as fines or penalties and interest for past amounts. If we are unsuccessful in collecting such taxes from our customers, we could be held liable for such costs, thereby adversely affecting our operating results and cash flows.. 31. Our estimates of market opportunity and forecasts of market growth that we have publicly disclosed may prove to be inaccurate, and even if the market in which we compete achieves the forecasted growth, our business could fail to grow at similar rates.. Market opportunity estimates and growth forecasts are subject to significant uncertainty and are based on assumptions and estimates that may not prove to be accurate. Our estimates and forecasts relating to the size and expected growth of our market that we have publicly disclosed may prove to be inaccurate. Even if the market in which we compete meets our size estimates and forecasted growth, our business could fail to grow at similar rates.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock. Our stock price has been subject to fluctuations, and will likely continue to be subject to fluctuations and decline, due to factors beyond our control and you may lose all or part of your investment.. The market price of our common stock is subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors, as well as the volatility of our common stock, could affect the price at which our convertible noteholders could sell the common stock received upon conversion of the Convertible Notes and could also impact the trading price of the Convertible Notes. Since shares of our common stock were sold in our initial public offering in October 2016 at a price of $18.00 per share, the reported high and low sales prices of our common stock has ranged from $22.50 to $41.61 through January 31, 2018. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including:. •  the overall performance of the equity markets;. •  our operating performance and the performance of other similar companies;. •  changes in our projected operating results that we provide to the public, our failure to meet or exceed these projections or changes in recommendations by securities analysts that elect to follow our common stock;. •  announcements of technological innovations, pricing changes, new software or enhancements to services, acquisitions, strategic alliances or significant agreements by us or by our competitors;. •  disruptions in our services due to computer hardware, software or network problems;. •  announcements of customer additions and customer cancellations or delays in customer purchases;. •  recruitment or departure of key personnel;. •  the economy as a whole, market conditions in our industry and the industries of our customers;. •  extraordinary expenses such as litigation or other dispute-related expenses or settlement payments;. •  the size of our market float; and. •  any other factors discussed in this annual report.. In addition, the stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many technology companies. Stock prices of many technology companies have fluctuated in a manner unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. In the past, stockholders have filed securities class action litigation following periods of market volatility. If we were to become involved in securities litigation, it could subject us to substantial costs, divert resources and the attention of management from our business and adversely affect our business.. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that they might occur, could cause the price of our common stock to decline.. The price of our common stock could decline if there are substantial sales of our common stock, particularly sales by our directors, executive officers, and significant stockholders. Our executive officers, directors, substantially all of the selling stockholders who participated in our April 2017 follow-on offering, as well as certain other holders of our common stock, were subject to a lock-up agreement that expired on July 11, 2017. The shares. 32. held by these persons may now be sold in the public market in the United States, subject to prior registration in the United States, if required, or reliance upon an exemption from United States registration, including, in the case of shares held by affiliates or control persons, compliance with the volume restrictions of Rule 144. In addition, certain of our significant stockholders that are venture capital funds have in the past and may in the future instead choose to distribute shares of our common stock to their limited partners who may at some point sell these shares in the open market. In addition, some of our executive officers have entered into Rule 10b5-1 trading plans under which they have contracted with a broker to sell shares of our common stock on a periodic basis.. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales might occur, for whatever reason, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline or make it more difficult for our stockholders to sell their common stock at a time and price that they deem appropriate and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity or equity-linked securities.. Certain of our stockholders holding approximately 7 million shares of our common stock have rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering their shares to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or our stockholders, subject to market standoff and lockup agreements. The market price of our common stock and the trading price of the Convertible Notes could decline as a result of the sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of stockholders intend to sell their shares.. In addition, we have filed a registration statement to register shares reserved for future issuance under our equity compensation plans. Subject to the satisfaction of applicable exercise periods and, in the case of shares held by affiliates or control persons, compliance with the volume restrictions of Rule 144, the shares issued upon exercise of outstanding stock options, settlement of outstanding restricted stock units, or conversion of the Convertible Notes into common stock will be available for immediate resale in the United States in the open market.. We have also reserved a substantial amount of shares of our common stock in connection with awards issued under our equity incentive plans and upon conversion of the Convertible Notes.. We are unable to predict the effect that sales, or the perception that our shares may be available for sale, will have on the prevailing market price of our common stock and the trading price of the Convertible Notes.. If securities or industry analysts do not continue to publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If industry analysts cease coverage of us, the trading price for our common stock and the trading price of the Convertible Notes will be negatively affected. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our common stock or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our common stock price and the value of the Convertible Notes will likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us or fail to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our common stock could decrease, which might cause our common stock price and trading volume, and the trading price of the Convertible Notes, to decline.. In addition, independent industry analysts, such as Gartner and Forrester, often provide reviews of our products and platform capabilities, as well as those of our competitors, and perception of our offerings in the marketplace may be significantly influenced by these reviews. We have no control over what these industry analysts report, and because industry analysts may influence current and potential customers, our brand could be harmed if they do not provide a positive review of our products and platform capabilities or view us as a market leader.. 33. We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future.. We have never declared nor paid cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings to finance the operation and expansion of our business, and we do not expect to declare or pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. Consequently, stockholders, including holders of our Convertible Notes who receive shares of our common stock upon conversion of the Convertible Notes, must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment.. Delaware law and provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation (\"Restated Certificate\") and amended and restated bylaws (\"Restated Bylaws\") could make a merger, tender offer or proxy contest difficult, thereby depressing the trading price of our common stock and Convertible Notes.. Our status as a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested stockholder, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our Restated Certificate and Restated Bylaws contain provisions that may make the acquisition of our company more difficult, including the following:. •  the requirement of a classified board of directors with three-year staggered terms, which could delay the ability of stockholders to change the membership of a majority of our board of directors;. •  the ability of our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms of those shares, including preferences and voting rights, without stockholder approval, which could be used to significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquiror;. •  the exclusive right of our board of directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of our board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors;. •  a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, which forces stockholder action to be taken at an annual or special meeting of our stockholders;. •  the requirement that a special meeting of stockholders be called only by a majority vote of our entire board of directors, the chairman of our board of directors or our chief executive officer, which could delay the ability of our stockholders to force consideration of a proposal or to take action, including to remove directors;. •  the requirement for the affirmative vote of holders of at least 66 2/3% of the voting power of all of the then-outstanding shares of the voting stock, voting together as a single class, to amend the provisions of our Restated Certificate relating to the management of our business or our Restated Bylaws, which may inhibit the ability of an acquiror to effect such amendments to facilitate an unsolicited takeover attempt; and. •  advance notice procedures with which stockholders must comply to nominate candidates to our board of directors or to propose matters to be acted upon at a stockholders' meeting, which may discourage or deter a potential acquiror from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquiror's own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us.. In addition, as a Delaware corporation, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. These provisions may prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us for a certain period of time.. A Delaware corporation may opt out of this provision by express provision in its original certificate of incorporation or by amendment to its certificate of incorporation or bylaws approved by its stockholders. However, we have not opted out of this provision.. 34. These and other provisions in our Restated Certificate, Restated Bylaws and in Delaware law could make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirors to obtain control of our board of directors or initiate actions that are opposed by our then-current board of directors, including to delay or impede a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest involving our company. The existence of these provisions could negatively affect the price of our common stock and the trading price of the Convertible Notes and limit opportunities for you to realize value in a corporate transaction.. Our Restated Certificate provides that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware is the exclusive forum for substantially all disputes between us and our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or employees.. Our Restated Certificate provides that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware is the exclusive forum for any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, any action asserting a breach of fiduciary duty, any action asserting a claim against us arising pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law, our Restated Certificate or our Restated Bylaws or any action asserting a claim against us that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine. This choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees and may discourage these types of lawsuits. Alternatively, if a court were to find the choice of forum provision contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we might incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions."
