[1] "Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. The following risk factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Exposure to energy, waste disposal, recycled metal and commodity prices may affect our results of operations.. Some of the electricity and steam we sell and all of the recycled metals we sell, are subject to market price volatility. Changes in the market prices for electricity and steam in particular can be affected by changes in natural gas prices, weather conditions and other market variables, while recycled metals prices are affected by general economic conditions and global demand for construction, goods and services. Similarly, the portion of waste processing capacity which is not under contract may be subject to volatility, principally as a result of general economic activity and waste generation rates, as well as the availability of alternative disposal sites and the cost to transport waste to alternative disposal. Volatility with respect to these all of these revenue categories could adversely impact our businesses' profitability and financial performance. We may not be successful in our efforts to mitigate our exposure to price swings relating to these revenue streams.. We may experience volatility in the market prices and availability of commodities we purchase, such as reagents, chemicals and fuel. Any price increase, delivery disruption or reduction in the availability of such supplies could affect our ability to operate the facilities and impair our cash flow and profitability. We may not be successful in our efforts to mitigate our exposure to supply and price swings for these commodities.. Compliance with environmental laws, including changes to such laws, could adversely affect our results of operations.. Our waste and energy services businesses are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations by federal, state, local and foreign authorities, primarily relating to air, waste (including residual ash from combustion) and water. Costs relating to compliance with these laws and regulations are material to our business. If our businesses fail to comply with these regulations, our cash flow and profitability could be adversely affected, and we could be subject to civil or criminal liability, damages and fines.. In addition, lawsuits or enforcement actions by federal, state, local and/or foreign regulatory agencies may materially increase our costs. Stricter environmental regulation of air emissions, solid waste handling or combustion, residual ash handling and disposal, and waste water discharge could materially affect our cash flow and profitability. Certain environmental laws make us potentially liable on a joint and several basis for the remediation of contamination at or emanating from properties or facilities we currently or formerly owned or operated or properties to which we arranged for the disposal of hazardous substances. Such liability is not limited to the cleanup of contamination we actually caused. We cannot provide any assurance that we will not incur liability relating to the remediation of contamination, including contamination we did not cause. For additional information on environmental regulation, see Item 1. Business  -  Regulation of Business.. Existing environmental laws and regulations have been and could be revised or reinterpreted, and future changes in environmental laws and regulations are expected to occur. This may materially increase the amount we must invest to bring our facilities into compliance, impose additional expense on our operations, limit our ability to operate at capacity, or at all, or otherwise impose structural changes to markets which would adversely affect our competitive positioning in those markets.. Contracts to provide new services or services through new or different methods involves significant risks, which could have an adverse effect on our cash flows and results of operations.. As we enter into contracts to provide new services or services through new or different methods, such as our waste transportation and disposal contract with New York City or our acquired environmental services businesses, we may face additional operating risks. These may include:. • performance by multiple contractors critical to our ability to perform under our new customer agreements;. • logistics associated with transportation of waste via barge, rail or other methods with which we have limited experience;. • reliance on joint venture parties or technology providers with whom we have limited experience; and. • risks associated with providing new materials handling or treatment services.. 20. Table of Contents. Operation of our businesses involves significant risks, which could have an adverse effect on our cash flows and results of operations.. The operation of our businesses involves many risks, including:. • supply or transportation interruptions;. • the breakdown, failure or unplanned maintenance or repair of equipment or processes;. • difficulty or inability to find suitable replacement parts for equipment;. • the unavailability of sufficient quantities of waste or fuel;. • fluctuations in the heating value of the waste we use for fuel at our EfW facilities;. • failure or inadequate performance by subcontractors;. • disruption in the transmission of electricity generated;. • labor disputes and work stoppages;. • unforeseen engineering and environmental problems;. • unanticipated cost overruns;. • weather interferences and catastrophic events including fires, explosions, earthquakes, droughts, pandemics and acts of terrorism; and. • the exercise of the power of eminent domain.. We cannot predict the impact of these risks on our business or operations. One or more of these risks, if they were to occur, could prevent us from meeting our obligations under our operating contracts and have an adverse effect on our cash flows and results of operations.. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by market conditions existing at the time our contracts expire.. For the EfW facilities that we own or lease, the contracts pursuant to which we provide waste services and sell energy output expire on various dates between 2018 and 2038. Expiration of these contracts subjects us to greater market risk in entering into new or replacement contracts at pricing levels that may not generate comparable revenue. We cannot assure you that we will be able to enter into renewal or replacement contracts on favorable terms, or at all. We also expect that medium- and long-term contracts for sales of energy may be less available than in the past, and so after expiration of existing contracts we expect to sell our energy output either in short-term transactions or on a spot basis or pursuant to new contracts which may subject us to greater market risk in maintaining and enhancing revenue. As a result, following the expiration of our existing long-term contracts, we may have more exposure on a relative basis to market risk, and therefore revenue fluctuations, in energy markets than in waste markets.. Where we have leasehold interests, we cannot assure you that market conditions prevailing when such interests expire will allow us to enter into an extension or that the terms available in the market at the time will be favorable to us.. Significant policy shifts from the Trump Administration could have a material adverse effect on us.. The Trump Administration has called for substantial change to fiscal and tax policies, regulatory oversight of businesses, and greater restrictions on free trade including significant increases on tariffs on goods imported into the United States, including from China. Proposals espoused by President Trump may result in changes to social, political, regulatory and economic conditions in the United States or in laws and policies affecting the development and investment in countries where we currently conduct business. In addition, these changes could result in negative sentiments towards the United States among non-U.S. customers and among non-U.S. employees or prospective employees. We cannot predict the impact, if any, of these changes to our business. However, it is possible that these changes could adversely affect our business. It is likely that some policies adopted by the new administration will benefit us and others will negatively affect us.. Changes in public policies and legislative initiatives could materially affect our business and prospects.. There has been substantial debate recently in the United States and abroad in the context of environmental and energy policies affecting climate change, the outcome of which could have a positive or negative influence on our existing business and our prospects for growing our business. Congress and several states have considered legislation and/or regulations designed to increase the proportion of the nation's electricity that is generated from technologies considered \"clean\" or \"renewable\", through mandatory generation levels, tax incentives, and other means. For those sources of greenhouse gas emissions that are unable to meet the required limitations, such legislation could impose substantial financial burdens. The Trump administration has indicated that it generally favors traditional energy technologies. Our business and future prospects could be adversely affected if renewable technologies we use were either (i) disfavored in any new laws or regulations pursued by the Trump administration, or (ii) not included among those technologies identified in any final laws or regulations as favoring renewable technologies, or not included in the state plans to reduce carbon emissions, and therefore not entitled to the benefits of such laws, regulations, or plans.. 21. Table of Contents. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to meet our payment obligations under our indebtedness.. The level of our consolidated indebtedness could have significant consequences on our future operations, including:. • making it difficult for us to meet our payment and other obligations under our outstanding indebtedness;. • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund working capital, capital expenditures, new projects, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes;. • subjecting us to the risk of increased sensitivity to interest rate increases on indebtedness under our credit facilities;. • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, and increasing our vulnerability to, changes in our business, the industries in which we operate and the general economy; and. • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or are less leveraged.. Any of the above-listed factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to meet our payment obligations under our consolidated debt, and the price of our common stock.. We cannot assure you that our cash flow from operations will be sufficient to service our indebtedness, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.. Our ability to meet our obligations under our indebtedness depends on our ability to receive dividends and distributions from our subsidiaries in the future. This, in turn, is subject to many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including the following:. • the continued operation and maintenance of our facilities, consistent with historical performance levels;. • maintenance or enhancement of revenue from renewals or replacement of existing contracts and from new contracts to expand existing facilities or operate additional facilities;. • market conditions affecting waste disposal and energy pricing, as well as competition from other companies for contract renewals, expansions and additional contracts, particularly after our existing contracts expire;. • the continued availability of the benefits of our net operating loss carryforwards; and. • general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors.. We cannot assure you that our business will generate cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us under our credit facilities or otherwise, in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our payment obligations under our outstanding indebtedness and to fund other liquidity needs. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations, we may need to refinance or restructure our debt, sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital. If we are unable to implement one or more of these alternatives, we may not be able to meet our payment obligations under our outstanding indebtedness, which could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition.. Our credit facilities and the indentures for our other corporate debt contain covenant restrictions that may limit our ability to operate our business.. Our credit facilities and the indentures for our other corporate debt contain operating and financial restrictions and covenants that impose operating and financial restrictions on us and require us to meet certain financial tests. Complying with these covenant restrictions may limit our ability to engage in certain transactions or activities, including incurring additional indebtedness, making certain investments, and distributions, and selling certain assets.. As a result of these covenant restrictions, our ability to respond to changes in business and economic conditions and to obtain additional financing, if needed, may be restricted, and we may be prevented from engaging in transactions that might otherwise be beneficial to us.. Our ability to comply with these covenants is dependent on our future performance, which will be subject to many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including prevailing economic conditions. In addition, the failure to comply with these covenants may result in a default under our credit facilities and other corporate debt. Upon the occurrence of such an event of default, the lenders under our credit facilities could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under such credit facilities, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. If the lenders accelerate the payment of the indebtedness under our credit facilities, we cannot assure you that the assets securing such indebtedness would be sufficient to repay in full that indebtedness and our other indebtedness, which could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition.. 22. Table of Contents. Dislocations in credit and capital markets and increased capital constraints on banks may make it more difficult for us to borrow money or raise capital needed to finance the construction of new projects, expand existing projects, acquire certain businesses and refinance our existing debt.. Our business is capital intensive, and we seek to finance a significant portion of our existing assets, as well as our investments in new assets, with debt capital to the extent that we believe such financing is prudent and accretive to stockholder value.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $2.5 billion in long-term debt and project debt. Prolonged instability or deterioration in the bank credit and/or debt and equity capital markets may adversely affect our ability to obtain refinancing of our existing debt on favorable terms, or at all. Such circumstances could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and/or the share price of our common stock.. We intend to grow our business through the development of new projects, the expansion and/or enhancement of existing facilities, and opportunistic acquisitions of projects or businesses. Such investments may be large enough to require capital in excess of our cash on hand and availability under our existing credit facilities. Prolonged instability or deterioration in the credit markets may adversely impact our access to capital on terms that we find acceptable, thereby impacting our ability to execute our strategy to grow our business.. Our revenue and cash flows may decline if we are not successful in retaining rights or such rights terminate to operate facilities after our contracts expire.. We operate some facilities owned by public sector clients, under long-term contracts. If, when existing contracts expire, we are unable to reach agreement with our municipal clients on the terms under which they would extend our operating contracts, this may adversely affect our revenue, cash flow and profitability. We cannot assure that we will be able to enter into such contracts or that the terms available in the market at the time will be favorable to us.. At a limited number of facilities we operate that are owned by public sector clients, our clients have certain rights to terminate such contracts without cause. If any such terminations were to occur, this may adversely affect our revenue, cash flow and profitability. We cannot assure that such contract terminations will not occur in the future.. Development and construction of new projects and expansions may not commence as anticipated, or at all.. Development and construction involves many risks including:. • difficulties in identifying, obtaining and permitting suitable sites for new projects;. • the inaccuracy of our assumptions with respect to the cost of and schedule for completing construction;. • difficulty, delays or inability to obtain financing for a project on acceptable terms;. • delays in deliveries of, or increases in the prices of, equipment sourced from other countries;. • the unavailability of sufficient quantities of waste or other fuels for startup;. • permitting and other regulatory issues, license revocation and changes in legal requirements;. • labor disputes and work stoppages;. • unforeseen engineering and environmental problems;. • interruption of existing operations;. • unanticipated cost overruns or delays; and. • weather interferences and catastrophic events including fires, explosions, earthquakes, droughts, pandemics and acts of terrorism.. In addition, new facilities have no operating history and may employ recently developed technology and equipment. A new facility may be unable to fund principal and interest payments under its debt service obligations or may operate at a loss. In certain situations, if a facility fails to achieve commercial operation, at certain levels or at all, termination rights in the agreements governing the facilities financing may be triggered, rendering all of the facility's debt immediately due and payable. As a result, the facility may be rendered insolvent and we may lose our interest in the facility.. Construction activities may cost more and take longer than we estimate.. The design and construction of new projects or expansions requires us to contract for services from engineering and construction firms, and make substantial purchases of equipment such as boilers, turbine generators and other components that require large quantities of steel to fabricate. These are complex projects that include many factors and conditions which may adversely affect our ability to successfully compete for new projects, or construct and complete such projects on time and within budget.. Our revenue and cash flows may be subject to greater volatility if we extend or renew our contracts under tip fee structures more often than service fee structures.. Our revenue and cash flows may be subject to greater volatility if we extend or renew our contracts under tip fee structures more often than under service fee structures. Due to the nature of tip fee structures, if that were to occur, we may be exposed to greater performance and price risk on the energy we sell.. 23. Table of Contents. Some of our EfW projects involve greater risk of exposure to performance levels which, if not satisfied, could result in materially lower revenue.. At our EfW facilities where tip fee structures exist, we receive 100% of the energy revenue they generate. As a result, if we are unable to operate these facilities at their historical performance levels for any reason, our revenue from energy sales could materially decrease.. Weakness in the economy may have an adverse effect on our revenue, cash flow and our ability to grow our business.. Our business is directly affected by economic slowdowns and general reduction in demand for goods and services. A weak economy generally results in reduced overall demand for waste disposal, recycled metal and energy production. Under such conditions, the pricing we are able to charge for our waste management services, and for our energy and recycled metals, may decline and/or experience increased volatility. In addition, many of our customers are municipalities and other public sector entities which may be adversely affected in an economic downturn due to reduced tax revenue. Consequently, some of these entities could be unable to pay amounts owed to us or renew contracts with us for similar volumes or at previous or increased rates.. Furthermore, lower prices for waste disposal and energy production, particularly in the absence of energy policies which encourage renewable technologies such as EfW, may also make it more difficult for us to sell waste and energy services at prices sufficient to allow us to grow our business through developing and building new projects. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and cash flow.. Changes in climate conditions could materially affect our business and prospects.. Significant changes in weather patterns and volatility could have a negative influence on our existing business and our prospects for growing our business. Such changes may cause episodic events (such as floods or storms) that are difficult to predict or prepare for, or longer-term trends (such as droughts or sea-level rise). These or other meteorological changes could lead to increased operating costs, capital expense, disruptions in facility operations or supply chains, changes in waste generation and interruptions in waste deliveries, limited availability of water for plant cooling operations, and changes in energy pricing, among other effects.. Our reputation could be adversely affected if we are unable to operate our businesses in compliance with laws, or if our efforts to grow our business results in adverse publicity.. If we encounter regulatory compliance issues in the course of operating our businesses, we may experience adverse publicity, which may intensify if such non-compliance results in civil or criminal liability. This adverse publicity may harm our reputation, and result in difficulties in attracting new customers, or retaining existing customers.. With respect to our efforts to grow and maintain our business globally, we sometimes experience opposition from advocacy groups or others intended to halt our development or on-going business. Such opposition is often intended to discourage third parties from doing business with us and may be based on misleading, inaccurate, incomplete or inflammatory assertions. Our reputation may be adversely affected as a result of adverse publicity resulting from such opposition. Such damage to our reputation could adversely affect our ability to grow and maintain our business.. Exposure to foreign currency fluctuations may affect our results from operations or construction costs of facilities we develop in international markets.. We have sought to participate in projects where the host country has allowed the convertibility of its currency into U.S. dollars and repatriation of earnings, capital and profits subject to compliance with local regulatory requirements. As and if we grow our business in other countries and enter new international markets, we expect to invest substantial amounts in foreign currencies to pay for the construction costs of facilities we develop, or for the cost to acquire existing businesses or assets. Currency volatility in those markets, as well as the effectiveness of any currency hedging strategies we may implement, may impact the amount we are required to invest in new projects, as well as our reported results.. Our growth could strain our resources and cause our business to suffer.. We have made and may continue to plan and execute acquisitions and take other actions to grow our business. Acquisitions present significant challenges and risks relating to the integration of the business into the company. If we make acquisitions, it could place a strain on our management systems, infrastructure and resources, as well as present new or different risks to our business. We expect that we will need to continually evaluate and maintain our financial and managerial controls, reporting systems and procedures. We will also need to expand, train and manage our workforce worldwide. We can provide no assurances that the company will manage and integrate acquisitions successfully.. 24. Table of Contents. Changes in technology may have a material adverse effect on our profitability.. Our company and others have recognized the value of the traditional waste stream as a potential resource. Research and development activities are ongoing to provide alternative and more efficient technologies to manage waste, produce or extract by-products from waste, or to produce power. We and many other companies are pursuing these technologies, and capital is being invested to find new approaches to waste management, waste treatment, and renewable power generation. It is possible that this deployment of capital may lead to advances in these or other technologies which will reduce the cost of waste management or power production to a level below our costs and/or provide new or alternative methods of waste management or energy generation that become more accepted than those we currently utilize. Unless we are able to participate in these advances, any of these changes could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, profitability and the value of our existing facilities.. Our ability to optimize our operations depends in part on our ability to compete for and obtain fuel for our facilities, and our failure to do so may adversely affect our financial results.. Our EfW facilities depend on solid waste for fuel, which provides a source of revenue. For some of our EfW facilities, the availability of solid waste to us, as well as the tipping fee that we charge to attract solid waste to our facilities, depends upon competition from a number of sources such as other EfW facilities, landfills and transfer stations competing for waste in the market area. In addition, we may need to obtain waste on a competitive basis as our long-term contracts expire at our owned facilities. There has been consolidation, and there may be further consolidation, in the solid waste industry that would reduce the number of solid waste collectors or haulers that are competing for disposal facilities or enable such collectors or haulers to use wholesale purchasing to negotiate favorable below-market rates. The consolidation in the solid waste industry has resulted in companies with vertically integrated collection activities and disposal facilities. Such consolidation may result in economies of scale for those companies, as well as the use of disposal capacity at facilities owned by such companies or by affiliated companies. Such activities can affect both the availability of waste to us for processing at some of our EfW facilities and market pricing, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.. Our ability to successfully manage organizational, process and cost-efficiency initiatives could strain our resources and affect our profitability.. We have made and may continue to undertake organizational, process and cost efficiency changes intended to improve our business. These changes, which may include implementation of new systems and processes, staff adjustments and reassignments of responsibilities, are important to our business success. Failure or delay in implementing these actions, or ineffective implementation could strain our resources and systems, resulting in disruption to our business and/or adversely affecting our results.. Our businesses generate their revenue primarily under long-term contracts and must avoid defaults under those contracts in order to service their debt and avoid material liability to contract counterparties.. We must satisfy performance and other obligations under contracts governing EfW facilities. These contracts typically require us to meet certain performance criteria relating to amounts of waste processed, energy generation rates per ton of waste processed, residue quantity and environmental standards. Our failure to satisfy these criteria may subject us to termination of operating contracts. If such a termination were to occur, we would lose the cash flow related to the projects and incur material termination damage liability, which may be guaranteed by us. In circumstances where the contract has been terminated due to our default, we may not have sufficient sources of cash to pay such damages. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to perform our respective obligations under such contracts in order to avoid such contract terminations, or damages related to any such contract termination, or that if we could not avoid such terminations that we would have the cash resources to pay amounts that may then become due.. We have provided guarantees and financial support in connection with our projects.. We are obligated to guarantee or provide financial support for our projects in one or more of the following forms:. • support agreements in connection with construction, service or operating agreement-related obligations;. • direct guarantees of certain debt relating to our facilities;. • contingent obligations to pay lease payment installments in connection with certain of our facilities;. • agreements to arrange financing for projects under development;. • contingent credit support for damages arising from performance failures;. • environmental indemnities; and. • contingent capital and credit support to finance costs, in most cases in connection with a corresponding increase in service fees, relating to uncontrollable circumstances.. Many of these contingent obligations cannot readily be quantified, but, if we were required to provide this support, it could materially and adversely affect our cash flow, results of operations and financial condition.. 25. Table of Contents. Our businesses depend on performance by third parties under contractual arrangements.. Our waste and energy services businesses depend on a limited number of third parties to, among other things, purchase the electric and steam energy produced by our facilities, supply and deliver the waste and other goods and services necessary for the operation of our energy facilities, and purchase the metals we recover. The viability of our facilities depends significantly upon the performance by third parties in accordance with long-term and short-term contracts, and such performance depends on factors which may be beyond our control. If those third parties do not perform their obligations, or are excused from performing their obligations because of nonperformance by our waste and energy services businesses or other parties to the contracts, or due to force majeure events or changes in laws or regulations, our businesses may not be able to secure alternate arrangements on substantially the same terms, or at all. In addition, the bankruptcy or financial stability of third parties with whom we do business could result in nonpayment or nonperformance of that party's obligations to us.. We are subject to counterparty and market risk with respect to transactions with financial and other institutions.. Following the expiration of our initial contracts to sell electricity from our projects, we expect to have on a relative basis more exposure to market risk, and therefore revenue fluctuations, in energy markets than in waste markets. Consequently, we may enter into futures, forward contracts, swaps or options with financial institutions to hedge our exposure to market risk in energy markets. We can provide no assurances as to the financial stability or viability of these financial and other institutions.. Concentration of suppliers and customers may expose us to heightened financial exposure.. Our waste and energy services businesses often rely on single suppliers and single customers at our facilities, exposing such facilities to financial risks if any supplier or customer should fail to perform its obligations.. For example, our businesses often rely on a single supplier to provide waste, fuel, water and other services required to operate a facility and on a single customer or a few customers to purchase all or a significant portion of a facility's output. The financial performance of these facilities depends on such customers and suppliers continuing to perform their obligations under their long-term agreements. A facility's financial results could be materially and adversely affected if any one customer or supplier fails to fulfill its contractual obligations and we are unable to find other customers or suppliers to produce the same level of profitability. We cannot assure you that such performance failures by third parties will not occur, or that if they do occur, such failures will not adversely affect the cash flows or profitability of our businesses.. In addition, we rely on the public sector clients as a source not only of waste for fuel, but also of revenue from the fees for waste services we provide. Because our contracts with public sector clients are generally long-term, we may be adversely affected if the credit quality of one or more of our public sector clients were to decline materially.. Our waste operations are concentrated in one region and expose us to regional economic or market declines.. The majority of our waste disposal facilities are located in the northeastern United States, primarily along the Washington, D.C. to Boston, Massachusetts corridor. Adverse economic developments in this region could affect regional waste generation rates and demand for waste management services provided by us. Adverse market developments caused by additional waste processing capacity in this region could adversely affect waste disposal pricing. Either of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and cash generation.. Exposure to international economic and political factors may materially and adversely affect our international businesses.. Our international operations expose us to political, legal, tax, currency, inflation, convertibility and repatriation risks, as well as potential constraints on the development and operation of potential business, any of which can limit the benefits to us of an international project.. The financing, development and operation of projects outside the United States can entail significant political and financial risks, which vary by country, including:. • changes in law or regulations;. • changes in electricity pricing;. • changes in foreign tax laws and regulations;. • changes in United States federal, state and local laws, including tax laws, related to foreign operations;. • compliance with United States federal, state and local foreign corrupt practices laws;. • changes in government policies or personnel;. • changes in general economic conditions affecting each country, including conditions in financial markets;. • changes in labor relations in operations outside the United States;. • political, economic or military instability and civil unrest;. • expropriation and confiscation of assets and facilities; and. • credit quality of entities that pay for our services or purchase our power.. 26. Table of Contents. The legal and financial environment in foreign countries in which we currently own assets or projects could also make it more difficult for us to enforce our rights under agreements relating to such projects.. Any or all of the risks identified above with respect to our international projects could adversely affect our profitability and cash generation. As a result, these risks may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition and results of operations.. Our reputation could be adversely affected if our businesses, or third parties with whom we have a relationship, were to fail to comply with United States or foreign anti-corruption laws or regulations.. Some of our projects and new business may be conducted in countries where corruption has historically penetrated the economy to a greater extent than in the United States. It is our policy to comply, and to require our local partners and those with whom we do business to comply, with all applicable anti-bribery laws, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and with applicable local laws of the foreign countries in which we operate. Our reputation may be adversely affected if we were reported to be associated with corrupt practices or if we or our local partners failed to comply with such laws. Such damage to our reputation could adversely affect our ability to grow our business.. Energy regulation could adversely affect our revenue and costs of operations.. Our waste and energy services businesses are subject to extensive energy regulations by federal, state and foreign authorities. We cannot predict whether the federal, state or foreign governments will modify or adopt new legislation or regulations relating to the solid waste or energy industries. The economics, including the costs, of operating our facilities may be adversely affected by any changes in these regulations or in their interpretation or implementation or any future inability to comply with existing or future regulations or requirements.. If our businesses lose existing exemptions under the Federal Power Act, the economics and operations of our energy projects could be adversely affected, including as a result of rate regulation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission with respect to our output of electricity, which could result in lower prices for sales of electricity and increased compliance costs. In addition, depending on the terms of the project's power purchase agreement, a loss of our exemptions could allow the power purchaser to cease taking and paying for electricity under existing contracts. Such results could cause the loss of some or all contract revenue or otherwise impair the value of a project and could trigger defaults under provisions of the applicable project contracts and financing agreements. Defaults under such financing agreements could render the underlying debt immediately due and payable. Under such circumstances, we cannot assure you that revenue received, the costs incurred, or both, in connection with the project could be recovered through sales to other purchasers.. Failure to obtain regulatory approvals could adversely affect our operations.. Our waste and energy services businesses are continually in the process of obtaining or renewing federal, state, local and foreign approvals required to operate our facilities. While we believe our businesses currently have all necessary operating approvals, we may not always be able to obtain all required regulatory approvals, and we may not be able to obtain any necessary modifications to existing regulatory approvals or maintain all required regulatory approvals. If there is a delay in obtaining any required regulatory approvals or if we fail to obtain and comply with any required regulatory approvals, the operation of our facilities or the sale of electricity to third parties could be prevented, made subject to additional regulation or subject our businesses to additional costs or a decrease in revenue.. The energy industry is becoming increasingly competitive, and we might not successfully respond to these changes.. We may not be able to respond in a timely or effective manner to the changes resulting in increased competition in the energy industry in global markets. These changes may include deregulation of the electric utility industry in some markets, privatization of the electric utility industry in other markets and increasing competition in all markets. To the extent competitive pressures increase and the pricing and sale of electricity assumes more characteristics of a commodity business, the economics of our business may be subject to greater volatility and we might not successfully respond to these changes.. Future impairment charges could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. In accordance with accounting guidance, we evaluate long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances, such as significant adverse changes in regulation, business climate or market conditions, could potentially indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Significant reductions in our expected revenue or cash flows for an extended period of time resulting from such events could result in future asset impairment charges, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. 27. Table of Contents. Security breaches and other disruptions to our information technology infrastructure could interfere with our operations, compromise information belonging to us and our customers, suppliers or employees, and expose us to liability that could adversely impact our business and reputation.. In the ordinary course of business, we rely on information technology networks and systems to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities. Despite security measures and business continuity plans, interruptions and breaches of computer and communications systems, including computer viruses, \"hacking\" and \"cyber-attacks,\" power outages, telecommunication or utility facilities, system failures, natural disasters or other catastrophic events that could impair our ability to conduct business and communicate internally and with our customers, or result in the theft of trade secrets or other misappropriation of assets, or otherwise compromise privacy of sensitive information belonging to us, our customers or other business partners. Any such events could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or penalties under privacy laws, disruption in revenue from operations, and damage to our reputation, which could adversely affect our business.. We cannot be certain that our NOLs will continue to be available to offset our federal tax liability.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $240 million of net operating loss carryforwards (\"NOLs\"). NOLs offset our consolidated taxable income and will expire in various amounts, if not used, between 2028 and 2036 The NOLs are also used to offset income from certain grantor trusts that were established as part of the reorganization in 1990 of certain of our subsidiaries engaged in the insurance business and are administered by state regulatory agencies. As the administration of these grantor trusts concludes, taxable income could result, utilizing a portion of our NOLs and accelerating the date on which we may be otherwise obligated to pay incremental cash taxes.. Our insurance and contractual protections may not always cover lost revenue, increased expense or contractual liabilities.. Although our businesses maintain insurance, obtain warranties from vendors, require contractors to meet certain performance levels and, in some cases, pass risks we cannot control to the service recipient or output purchaser, the proceeds of such insurance, warranties, performance guarantees or risk sharing arrangements may not be adequate to cover lost revenue, increased expense or contractual liabilities.. We depend on our senior management and key personnel and we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified professionals.. Our future operating results depend to a large extent upon the continued contributions of key senior managers and personnel. In addition, we are dependent on our ability to attract, train, retain and motivate highly skilled employees. However, there is significant competition for employees with the requisite level of experience and qualifications. If we cannot attract, train, retain and motivate qualified personnel, we may be unable to compete effectively and our growth may be limited, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects and our ability to fulfill our debt obligations.. Our controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud.. Any disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must consider the benefits of controls relative to their costs. Inherent limitations within a control system include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by an unauthorized override of the controls. While the design of any system of controls is to provide reasonable assurance of the effectiveness of disclosure controls, such design is also based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and such assumptions, while reasonable, may not take into account all potential future conditions. Accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in a cost effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and may not be prevented or detected.. Failure to maintain an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting may have an adverse effect on our stock price.. We have in the past discovered, and may potentially in the future discover, areas of internal control over financial reporting that may require improvement. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective now or in any future period, or if our independent auditors are unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price.. 28. Table of Contents. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, our credit facilities and our other corporate debt could discourage an acquisition of us by a third party.. Certain provisions of our credit facilities and our other corporate debt could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us. Upon the occurrence of certain transactions constituting a fundamental change, holders of our credit facilities and our other corporate debt will have the right to require Covanta Holding or Covanta Energy, as the case may be, to repurchase their corporate debt or repay the facilities, as applicable. In addition, provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, each as amended, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us. For example, our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue preferred stock without requiring any stockholder approval, and preferred stock could be issued as a defensive measure in response to a takeover proposal. All these provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us or discourage a third party from acquiring us even if an acquisition might be in the best interest of our stockholders."
