[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business. System security risks, data protection breaches, and cyber-attacks could compromise our proprietary information, disrupt our internal operations and harm perception of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and our reputation.. In operating a Financial Payment Card business, we manage large amounts of personally identifiable information of cardholders, including cardholder names, account numbers and similar information. The reliability and security of our information technology (\"IT\") infrastructure and our ability to protect sensitive and confidential information for our customers, which include many financial institutions, is critical to our business. Our handling of such information makes us a potential target of cyber-attacks or cyber intrusions via the Internet, computer viruses, break-ins, malware, phishing attacks, hacking, denial-of-service attacks or other attacks and similar disruptions from unauthorized use of or access to computer systems (including from internal and external sources). Any system or network disruption could result in a loss of our intellectual property, the release of sensitive cardholder information, customer or employee. 10. Table of Contents. personal data, or the loss of production capabilities at one or more of our production facilities. These types of incidents have become more prevalent and pervasive across industries, including in our industry.. In addition, our encryption systems are at risk of being breached or decoded. Smart cards are equipped with keys that encrypt and decode messages in order to secure transactions and maintain the confidentiality of data. The security afforded by this technology depends on the integrity of the encryption keys and the complexity of the algorithms used to encrypt and decode information. Any significant advances in technology that enable the breach of cryptographic systems, malicious software infiltration or that allow for the exploitation of weaknesses in such systems could result in a decline in the security we are able to provide through this technology. Any material breach of our secured systems could harm our competitive position, result in a loss of customer trust and confidence, and cause us to incur significant costs to remedy the damages caused by system or network disruptions, whether caused by cyber-attacks, security breaches or otherwise, which could ultimately have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The protective measures we have implemented to protect against data and security breaches and cyber-attacks may not prevent system or network disruptions and may be insufficient to prevent or limit the damage from any future security breaches. We regularly evaluate, assess and test our systems and the controls, processes and practices to protect those systems. The evaluations, assessments and testing identify areas of weakness in, and suggested improvements to, the maturity of our systems, processes, and risk management framework as well as vulnerabilities in those areas that could be attacked and exploited to access and acquire proprietary and confidential information. Although cybersecurity and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and practices designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access are a high priority for us, our activities and investment may not be deployed quickly enough or successfully protect our system or network against disruptions and may be insufficient to prevent or limit the damage from any future security breaches. In addition, as these threats continue to evolve, we may be required to invest significant additional resources to modify and enhance our information security and controls or to investigate and remediate any security vulnerabilities.. Interruptions in our operations, particularly in our IT systems, could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation.. Our business is dependent upon our ability to execute, in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, necessary business functions, including the operation of complex IT applications. In addition, a significant portion of the communication between our employees, customers and suppliers around the world depends on our IT systems. The reliability of our IT infrastructure and software, and our ability to expand and continually update technologies in response to our changing needs, are critical to our business. An interruption in our business applications, systems or networks, including, but not limited to, new system implementations, server downtime, facility issues or energy blackouts, could have a material adverse impact on our operations, sales and operating results.. Not only would we suffer damage to our reputation in the event of a system outage or data loss or interruption, but we may also be liable to third parties, including our customers. Some of our contractual agreements with financial institutions require the payment of penalties if our systems do not meet certain operating standards, and failure to operate in accordance with the standards of one or more of the Payment Card Brands could result in a loss of the certification of our facilities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, to successfully operate our business, we must be able to protect our processing and other systems from interruption, including from events that may be beyond our control. We have established certain protective measures in an effort to ensure the continuation of core business operations in the event that normal operations could not be performed due to a catastrophic event. However, these measures may be insufficient to prevent or limit the damage from any future disruptions, and any such disruption could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 11. Table of Contents. We may experience software defects, which could harm our business and reputation and expose us to potential liability.. Our services are based on sophisticated software and computing systems, and the software underlying our services may contain undetected errors or defects when first introduced or when new versions are released. In addition, we may experience difficulties in installing or integrating our technology on systems used by our clients. Defects in our software, errors or delays in the processing of electronic transactions or other difficulties could result in the interruption of business operations, delays in market acceptance, additional development and remediation costs, diversion of technical and other resources, loss of clients, negative publicity or exposure to liability claims. Although we attempt to limit our potential liability through disclaimers and limitation of liability provisions in our license and client agreements, we cannot be certain that these measures will successfully limit our liability.. Failure to identify and attract new customers or a failure to retain our customers could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our business is dependent upon our ability to identify and attract new customers and to retain our existing customers.  Building and maintaining these critical relationships requires us to consistently deliver high-quality products at competitive prices. If our customers experience a decline in their business or Financial Payment Card needs, or if our operations suffer from production, quality, pricing or other issues, we may be unable to attract new customers or retain our existing customers.  In addition, any actual or perceived deterioration in our financial condition or loss of our market share may discourage existing or potential customers from doing business with us.  If we experience difficulty attracting and retaining customers, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.. A substantial portion of our net sales is derived from several large customers. Our top five customers accounted for approximately 28.5% of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2017. Our continued business relationship with these customers may be impacted by several factors beyond our control, including more attractive product offerings from our competitors, pricing pressures or the financial health of these customers. Many of our customers operate in competitive businesses, and their demand and market positions may vary considerably. These customers depend on favorable macroeconomic conditions and are impacted by the availability of affordable credit and capital, the level and volatility of interest rates, inflation, employment levels and consumer confidence, among other factors.. We generally enter into master agreements that govern the general terms and conditions of our commercial relationships. We then enter into purchase order or other short - term agreements that define the prices and the quantities of products to be delivered. Usually, our contractual arrangements include neither exclusivity clauses nor commitments from our customers to order any given quantities of products on a medium or long-term basis.. In addition, there is no guarantee that we will be able to renew or win contracts or purchase orders in a given year, or whether we will have the operating capacity or capabilities to deliver on significant new contracts or purchase orders won, which could result in the loss of future business. If we were to lose important programs for our products with any of our customers, or if customers were to reduce or change their buying patterns with us, seek alternate suppliers, increase their product returns or become unable or otherwise fail to meet payment obligations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Our business could suffer from problems in production quality and process.. We produce our products using processes that are highly complex, require advanced and costly equipment and must continually be modified to improve yields and performance. Difficulties in the production process can reduce product yields, reduce product quality or interrupt production altogether. As a result of such problems, we may not be able to deliver products, or may be able to deliver products, but in a less timely or cost - effective manner or at a lower than expected quality level, or we may be required to rework or replace products. As the complexity of both our products and our technological processes has become more advanced, production tolerances have been reduced and requirements for precision have become more demanding. If we do not advance our production processes at the market rate, we may experience a lower production quality than the market standard. We may suffer disruptions in our production, either due to production difficulties, such as machinery or technology failures, or as a result of external factors beyond our control, such as delay of, or quality issues with, materials provided by suppliers, interruption of our electrical service or a natural. 12. Table of Contents. disaster. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we fail to meet customer demands in a timely manner, we could lose certain critical business relationships.. Our ability to provide products and services and meet very high quality standards in a timely manner is critical to our business success. For example, one of the key services that we offer our customers is the prompt and timely production and delivery of replacement debit or credit cards. Orders for replacement debit or credit cards often are placed on short notice and may require personalization. If we are unable to offer these and our other products and services in a timely manner or due to software malfunction, logistical impediments at any of our facilities, or economic, social, political or other challenges impacting the industry as a whole, our relationships with our customers may be adversely affected and we may lose contracts, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We face competition that has resulted in and may continue to result in a loss of our market share and/or a decline in our profitability.. Our marketplace is highly competitive and relatively saturated, and we expect these market dynamics to continue as new product markets develop, companies develop lower-cost production processes and other competitors attempt to enter the markets in which we operate. In addition, we expect to encounter further consolidation in the markets in which we operate.. Some of our competitors have longer operating histories, and, when viewed globally, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other capabilities than we do. These competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technological requirements and changes in customer and/or regulatory requirements and to leverage their scale to develop techniques to lower production costs and, as a result, their prices. They may also be able to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products and services. We also face competition from newly established competitors, suppliers of products and customers who choose to develop their own products and services.. Existing or new competitors may develop products, technologies or services that more effectively address our markets with enhanced features and functionality, greater levels of integration and/or lower cost. As the technological sophistication of our competitors and the size of the market increases, competing low - cost producers could emerge and grow stronger. If our customers prefer low - cost alternatives to our products, our revenue and profitability could be materially adversely affected. Increased competition has historically resulted in, and is likely to continue to result in, declining average selling prices and reduced gross margins in certain of our businesses, and the loss of market share in certain markets.  If we cannot sufficiently reduce our production costs, we may not be able to continue to compete successfully against current or new competitors. If we fail to compete successfully, we may lose market share or continue to lose market share in our existing markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. New and developing technology solutions and products could make our existing technology solutions and products obsolete or irrelevant, and if we are unable to introduce new products and services in a timely manner, our business could be materially adversely affected.. The markets for our products and services are subject to technological changes, frequent introductions of new products and services and evolving industry standards. In particular, the rise in the adoption in wireless payment systems or mobile payments may make physical cards less attractive as a method of payment. Although to date we have not seen a meaningful reduction in card - based payments in the U.S. resulting from the emergence of mobile payment applications, mobile payments offer consumers an alternative method to make purchases without the need to carry a physical card and could, if widely adopted, reduce the number of Financial Payment Cards issued to consumers. In addition, other new and developing technology solutions and products could make our existing technology solutions and products obsolete or irrelevant.. Our ability to enhance our current products and services and to develop and introduce innovative products and services that address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers will significantly affect our future success. We may not be successful in developing, marketing or selling new products and services that meet these changing demands. In addition, we may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development,. 13. Table of Contents. introduction or marketing of these services, or our new services and enhancements may not adequately meet the demands of the marketplace or achieve market acceptance. We continually engage in efforts to innovate and upgrade our products and services. If we are unsuccessful in completing or gaining market acceptance of new products, services and technologies, it would likely have a material adverse effect on our ability to retain existing customers or attract new ones. For example, one of our growth opportunities is the potential adoption of dual-interface EMV cards by U.S. card issuing banks.  Banks may be delayed in transitioning to the issuance of dual - interface EMV cards due to increased costs and other factors. If these entities do not deploy dual - interface EMV technology or do so less quickly and/or completely than we expect, our ability to grow could be significantly impacted which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our ability to develop and deliver new products and services successfully will depend on various factors, including our ability to:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\teffectively identify and capitalize upon opportunities in new and emerging product markets;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinvest resources in innovation and research and development;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcomplete and introduce new products and integrated services solutions in a timely manner;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlicense any required third - party technology or intellectual property rights;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tqualify for and obtain required industry certification for our products;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcomply with applicable data protection regulations; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tretain and hire talent experienced in developing new products and services.. Additionally, opportunities to combine or package products and service offerings and the ability to cross - sell products and services are critical to remaining competitive in our industry. As a result, part of our business strategy is to develop new products and services that may be used in conjunction with or in addition to our existing offerings. If we are unable to identify adequate opportunities to cross - sell our products and services, this may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The process of developing and enhancing our strategies could be disruptive to our operations and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, and we may not realize some or all of the anticipated benefits of this plan in the time frame anticipated or at all.. During our quarterly earnings call on November 7, 2017, the Company announced the commencement of a comprehensive review of our business to assess our strategies. The objective of this review is to enhance our strategies by executing key initiatives, further capitalizing on our addressable market, better serving the needs of our customers and delivering shareholder value.  These strategic initiatives may result in actions affecting, among other things, leadership roles and responsibilities, our operational footprint, and the way our organization is structured to sell and market our products to our customers.  The execution of our strategic review and initiatives may cause disruptions to our operations, make it difficult to attract or retain employees, result in higher than anticipated charges and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our ability to implement our strategies and achieve the anticipated benefits therefrom within the expected time frame or at all is subject to estimates and assumptions and may vary materially from our expectations, including as a result of factors that are beyond our control. Furthermore, following implementation of our enhanced strategies, our business may not be more efficient or effective.. We may not be able to sell, exit or reconfigure businesses or facilities that we determine no longer meet with our strategy or that should be consolidated.. In executing our strategy, we will perform a comprehensive review of our business and operations and may, as a result, consider the consolidation of certain of our facilities and/or the divestiture of one or more of our businesses.. 14. Table of Contents. Any such consolidation or divestiture could adversely affect our continuing business and expenses, revenues, results of operations, cash flows and financial position.. We may not be able to realize efficiencies and cost savings from any consolidation activities, and there is no assurance that our efforts will be successful. If we are not able to successfully manage any consolidation activities that we may undertake, expected efficiencies and benefits might be delayed or not realized, and our operations and business could be disrupted.. Divestitures have inherent risks, including selling expenses, the possibility that any anticipated sale will not occur, delays in closing any sale, the risk of lower-than-expected proceeds from the sale of the divested business, unexpected costs associated with the separation of the business to be sold from historical information technology and other operating systems, and potential post-closing claims for indemnification. Our ability to dispose of, exit or reconfigure businesses that may no longer be aligned with our strategy will depend on many factors, including the terms and conditions of any purchase and sale agreement, as well as industry, business and economic conditions. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to sell non-strategic businesses on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. In addition, if the sale of any non-strategic business cannot be consummated or is not practical, alternative courses of action, including relocation of operations or closure, may not be available to us or may be more costly than anticipated.. Our future success depends upon our ability to develop, introduce and commercialize new products, which can be a lengthy and complex process. We may be unable to commercialize new or improved products we may develop on a timely basis, or at all.. The development of new or enhanced products is a complex and uncertain process requiring the accurate anticipation of technological, market and industry trends, as well as precise technical execution. The successful development of new products may require us to undertake time-consuming and costly development activities, and we may experience difficulties or challenging market conditions that could delay or prevent the successful development, commercialization and marketing of these new products, including, for example, limited market acceptance of dual-interface EMV technology in the United States. Before we can commercialize any new products, we may need to expend significant funds in order to conduct substantial research and development. For example, we have been experiencing customer interest in metal cards, however our ability to operationalize this business is progressing more slowly than expected. If we experience limited market opportunities for dual-interface EMV technology or continued difficulty with the production of metal cards, or if we have difficulty producing other innovative products, such as dual-interface EMV cards, there could be a material adverse effect on our revenue, results of operations, reputation and business.. As we develop products, we may need to make significant investments in product development, as well as sales and marketing resources. Furthermore, if we are unable to develop and introduce new and innovative products in a cost - effective and timely manner, our product and service offerings could be rendered obsolete. In addition, competitors may develop and commercialize competing products faster than we are able to do so.  Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our outstanding indebtedness may impact our business and our results of operations and may restrict our ability to grow, and future EBITDA declines, should they occur, could make it difficult or impossible to timely make our debt service payments or refinance our debt when it comes due.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $303.9 million of total indebtedness outstanding, net of unamortized discount and deferred financing costs of $8.6 million under our First Lien Term Loan Facility. See Part II, Item 7 \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources.\". We may incur additional indebtedness in the future to help fund our business, subject to market and other conditions. Our substantial indebtedness and interest expense could have important consequences to us, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimiting our ability to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations in other areas of our business, including for working capital, capital expenditures and other general business activities, because we must dedicate a substantial portion of these funds to pay interest and/or service our debt;. 15. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour First Lien Credit Facility is entirely floating rate debt, and rising interest rates could have a material adverse impact on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trequiring us to seek to incur further indebtedness in order to make the capital expenditures and other expenses or investments necessary to operate the business to the extent our future cash flows are insufficient;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions and the execution of our strategy, and other expenses or investments planned by us;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimiting our flexibility and our ability to capitalize on business opportunities and to react to competitive pressures and adverse changes in government regulation, our business and our industry;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimiting our ability to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness (which could result in an event of default and acceleration if we fail to comply with the requirements of our indebtedness);.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincreasing our vulnerability to a downturn in our business and to adverse economic and industry conditions generally;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tplacing us at a competitive disadvantage as compared to our competitors that are less leveraged;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimiting our ability to timely make our debt service payments;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimiting our ability, or increasing the costs, to refinance indebtedness, when our Revolving Credit Facility matures on August 17, 2020 and our First Lien Term Loan matures on August 17, 2022; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour inability to retain existing customers and/or attract new customers due to the significant amount of debt and the related implications of such debt.. The limitations described above could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.  Further, if we are unable to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness as they become due, or if we are unable to pay our interest obligations we would be rendered insolvent.. The terms of our First Lien Credit Facility restrict, and covenants contained in agreements governing indebtedness in the future may restrict, our ability to operate our business and to pursue our business strategies.. Our First Lien Credit Facility contains, and any future indebtedness of ours may contain, a number of restrictive covenants that impose customary operating and financial restrictions on us. Our First Lien Credit Facility places certain restrictions or limitations on our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries, among other things, to:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincur additional debt or contingent liabilities;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdeclare or pay dividends, redeem stock, or make other distributions to stockholders;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmake loans, advances, guarantees or other investments;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcreate liens or use assets as security in other transactions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmerge or consolidate, or sell, transfer, lease or dispose of substantially all of our assets;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tenter into transactions with affiliates; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tenter into certain asset sale transactions or other dispositions of assets.. 16. Table of Contents. In addition, as of the last day of any fiscal quarter, if the amount we have drawn under the First Lien Revolving Credit Facility is greater than 50% of the aggregate principal amount of all commitments of the lenders thereunder, we are required to maintain a first lien net leverage ratio not in excess of 7.0x Adjusted EBITDA, as defined in the agreement.  Accordingly, as of December 31, 2017, the availability of our undrawn $40.0 million Revolving Credit Facility was limited to $20.0 million as our first lien net leverage ratio was 11.4x Adjusted EBITDA.. Our failure to comply with any of these covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our indebtedness under the First Lien Credit Facility.. Our ability to raise capital in the future may be limited.. Our business and operations may consume resources faster than we anticipate. In the future, we may need to raise additional funds through the issuance of new equity securities, debt or a combination of both. As a result of our financial condition, additional financing may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to fund our capital requirements. Any failure to achieve adequate funding will delay our product and services innovation and development and could lead to abandonment of one or more of our strategic initiatives.  Any of these events could materially harm our business, financial condition and prospects.. We may be unable to adequately protect our trade secrets and intellectual property rights against misappropriation or infringement, which may have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our success and future revenue growth will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We depend on patents and other intellectual property rights to protect our products, proprietary designs and technological processes against misappropriation by others. We may in the future have difficulty obtaining patents and other intellectual property protection, and the patents and intellectual property rights that we receive may be insufficient to provide us with meaningful protection or commercial advantage. Effective patent, trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our services are made available. It is possible that competitors or other unauthorized third parties may obtain, copy, use or disclose our technologies and processes, or confidential employee, customer or supplier data. Any of our existing or future patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. We engage, and are currently engaged, in litigation to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets and determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, including our customers. We also enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and strategic partners and control access to and distribution of our technologies, documentation and other proprietary information; however, such agreements may not be enforceable or provide us with an adequate remedy. Despite these efforts, internal or external parties may attempt to copy, disclose, obtain or use our proprietary products, services or technology without our authorization and may use such information to interfere with our customers.  In addition, if we cannot adequately protect our technology, our competitors may be able to offer certain products and/or services similar to ours.. Our software may be derived from open source software, which is generally made available to the public by its authors and/or other third parties. Open source software is often made available under licenses, which impose certain obligations in the event we distribute derivative works of the open source software. These obligations may require us to make source code for the derivative works available to the public and/or license such derivative works on terms different from those customarily used to protect our intellectual property. With respect to our proprietary software, we generally license such software under terms that prohibit combining it with open source software. Despite these restrictions, parties may combine our proprietary software with open source software without our authorization, in which case we might nonetheless be required to release the source code of our proprietary software. In addition to risks related to license requirements, usage of open source software can lead to greater risks than the use of third - party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties, controls on the origin or development of the software, or remedies against the licensors. Many of the risks associated with usage of open source software cannot be eliminated and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our efforts to prevent the misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property or the intellectual property of our customers may not succeed. Although we actively seek to protect our proprietary rights, nevertheless, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or technologies or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Identifying unauthorized use of our products and technologies is difficult and time consuming. The initiation of litigation as a result of the misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property may adversely affect our relationships and agreements with certain customers that have a stake in the outcome of the litigation proceedings. Litigation is very expensive and may divert the attention of management and other key employees from the. 17. Table of Contents. operation of our business, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to litigation costs, infringement on our products by competitors has caused, and may in the future cause, customer loss to parties offering infringing products.. We rely on the timely supply of materials and products and our business could suffer if our suppliers fail to meet their delivery obligations or raise their prices.. Our production operations depend on deliveries of microchips and other materials in a timely manner and, in some cases, on a just - in - time basis. From time to time, suppliers may extend lead times, limit the amounts supplied to us or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. We may not be able to meet the demands of our customers in a timely manner, or at all, due to shortages in the supply of critical materials.  The supplies we purchase could also have latent quality issues, causing quality problems with the products we produce, increased costs due to scrap or rework, delays to our delivery timelines or loss of business. Additionally, certain product materials required in our production operations are only available from a limited number of suppliers, and we may not be able to find an adequate replacement for such materials if our suppliers are unable to meet their delivery obligations to us. For example, we rely on a small group of suppliers for the provision of EMV microchips that we use in our Financial Payment Cards. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we obtained approximately 90% of our total purchased EMV microchips from four main suppliers. If any one of these EMV microchip suppliers, or any supplier of our other raw materials, fails to deliver our requirements, or ceases supplying such raw materials to us for any reason, our production could be disrupted. In addition, as a result of a shortage, we may be compelled to delay shipments of our products, or devote additional resources to maintaining higher levels of inventory. Consequently, we may experience substantial period - to - period fluctuations in our cost of sales and in our future results of operations. If we are unable to obtain adequate supplies of quality materials in a timely manner or if there are significant increases in the cost of these materials, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The chip operating systems developed by our competitors may put us at a competitive disadvantage.. Certain of our competitors have internally developed their own chip operating systems, including for use in EMV cards. Ownership of these internal operating systems may give our competitors a cost advantage over us, as we utilize the chip operating systems designed by our chip suppliers for use on their respective chips. If our competitors are able to reduce the prices of their products and services as a result of the cost savings they might realize from using their own internally developed operating system, our profitability may be materially adversely affected. Additionally, customers may prefer the operating systems of our competitors over the operating systems that we utilize in our EMV cards. If customers are more attracted to our competitors' internally developed operating systems, demand for our products and services may be reduced, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business depends upon our ability to obtain specialized equipment from third - party suppliers, and we may be subject to delayed deliveries, future price increases, and specialized equipment that does not meet our standards or requirements.. Our production processes depend on specialized equipment that we purchase and/or lease from third party suppliers. At times during the business cycle, there may be high demand for such equipment, with extended lead times to obtain such equipment. Further, there are a limited number of suppliers that manufacture and service the equipment we use. Should our current suppliers be unable or unwilling to provide the necessary equipment, fail to meet quality standards of our customers or otherwise fail to deliver or service such equipment in a timely manner, any resulting delays in our production processes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the prices of the equipment we use may rise in the future, and any future price increases for this type of equipment could negatively impact our ability to purchase new equipment or to service existing equipment.. The financial payment card industry has been and may continue to be subject to price erosion, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Pricing pressure in the financial payment card industry can be intense, in particular for large credit and debit card issuers and large card processors. Our large credit and debit card issuer customers face continued competitive pressure and, in turn, continually seek to reduce their expenses, including the cost of cards.  We may experience a decline in the prices at which our products can be sold and at which such services can be offered. For example, our average selling price on U.S. Debit and Credit segment sales of EMV cards declined from $0.95 during the year ended. 18. Table of Contents. December 31, 2016 to $0.86 during the year ended December 31, 2017.  In such instances, in order to continue to supply these products and services at competitive prices, we must reduce our production costs. Typically, we are able to accomplish this through leveraging our scale and production efficiencies. However, if we cannot continue to improve our efficiencies to a degree sufficient for maintaining the required margins, we may no longer be able to generate a profit from the sale of these products and services. Moreover, we may not be able to cease production of such products, either due to our ongoing contractual obligations or the risk of losing our existing customer relationships, and as a result may be required to bear a loss on such products. Further competition in our product and service markets may lead to price erosion, lower revenue and margins in the future. Should reductions in our production costs fail to keep pace with reductions in market prices for the products we sell, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we fail to accurately project demand for our products and services, we may encounter problems of inadequate supply or oversupply, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as damage our reputation and brand.. Our customers typically order our products and services on a purchase-order basis. We project product demand based on, among other things, addressable market size, historical experience, customer feedback, pricing pressure and competition.  However, the emerging nature of our industry, our lack of significant order backlog and the varying sales and purchasing cycles of our customers make it difficult for us to accurately forecast demand.. If we overestimate demand, we may have higher raw material or product component inventory levels, or may have higher staffing levels than required. If we underestimate demand, our third-party suppliers may have inadequate raw material or product component inventories or we may not have required staffing levels,  which could interrupt our manufacturing and delay shipments, and could result in lost sales. In particular, we are seeking to manage our staffing,  procurement and inventory costs by matching them closely with our projected manufacturing needs and by, from time to time, deferring our purchase of raw materials and components in anticipation of supplier price reductions. As we seek to balance inventory costs and production flexibility, we may fail to accurately forecast demand to predict and maintain appropriate staffing levels and levels of inventory reserve, which could cause uneven and unpredictable flow or could affect our ability to coordinate our procurement and production to meet demand on a timely basis. Our inability to accurately predict or timely meet demand could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations as well as damage our reputation and brand.. Our operating results are unpredictable and may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and annually, and may differ significantly from our expectations.. Our operating results are affected by a wide variety of factors that could materially and adversely affect revenue and profitability or lead to significant variability in our operating results. These factors include, among others, the cyclicality of the financial card and electronic payment industries, capital requirements, inventory management, the availability of funding, competition, new product developments, technological changes, production problems and other factors. For example, with the adoption of Accounting Standards Update (\"ASU\") 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which became effective January 1, 2018, the timing of revenue recognition may change significantly from quarter to quarter, and the net sales and results of operations for a given quarter may be materially higher or lower than our net sales and results of operations under existing rules. In addition, the adoption of tax reform by the U.S. government will have a significant impact on our effective tax rate, and will result in limitations and eliminations of certain favorable tax incentives.. A number of other factors could lead to fluctuations in quarterly and annual operating results, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\torder cancellations or rescheduling by customers;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe failure to win new projects;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tunpredictable ordering patterns by customers;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe continued adoption of EMV and dual-interface technology by customers may be more uneven or unpredictable than we anticipate;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trestructuring and impairment charges;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlitigation;. 19. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tnew product capability development and/or slower than expected demand of new products by customers;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfluctuations in currency exchange rates, particularly between the U.S. dollar and the Canadian Dollar and British Pound Sterling;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tintellectual property developments;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in distribution and sales arrangements;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tproduction performance and yields;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tproduct liability or warranty claims;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ttaxation;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tacquisitions or divestitures;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tobtaining adequate raw materials or production equipment on a timely basis;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tproduction staffing levels;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanging raw material prices;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tproperty loss or damage or interruptions to our business, including as a result of fire, natural disasters or other disturbances at our facilities or those of our customers and suppliers that may exceed the amounts recoverable under our insurance policies; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in the market value or yield of the financial instruments in which we invest our liquidity.. Unfavorable changes related to certain of the above factors have in the past and any of the above factors may in the future have a material adverse effect on our operating results and on our reputation. Furthermore, in periods of industry overcapacity or when our customers encounter difficulties in their end - markets, orders are more exposed to cancellations, reductions, price renegotiations or postponements, which in turn reduce our management's ability to forecast the next quarter or full - year production levels, net sales, profits and cash flows. For these reasons, our net sales and operating results and cash flows may differ materially from our expectations as visibility is reduced and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business and financial results may be materially adversely affected by various legal and regulatory proceedings.. We are subject to legal proceedings, lawsuits and other claims in the normal course of business and could become subject to additional claims in the future, some of which could be material. The outcome of existing proceedings, lawsuits and claims may differ from our expectations because the outcomes of litigation are often difficult to reliably predict. Various factors or developments can lead us to change current estimates of liabilities and related insurance receivables where applicable, or permit us to make such estimates for matters previously not susceptible to reasonable estimates, such as a significant judicial ruling or judgment, a significant settlement, significant regulatory developments or changes in applicable law. A future adverse ruling, settlement or unfavorable development could result in charges that could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. In addition, litigation can be costly, and the expenses and damages arising from any liability could harm our business.  Furthermore, our insurance may not be adequate to cover claims against us or any liability that may be imposed on us.  The likelihood of legal claims may be heightened in times of financial hardship. See Part I, Item 3, \"Legal Proceedings\" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information on our currently pending legal proceedings.. We may be required to defend against alleged infringement of the intellectual property rights of others.. Companies in our industry aggressively protect and pursue their intellectual property rights. Our products may contain technology provided to us by other parties such as suppliers or customers. We may have little or no ability to determine in advance whether such technology infringes the intellectual property rights of a third party. From time to time, we receive notices or are named in litigation that claim we have infringed upon, misappropriated or misused other parties' proprietary rights. Additionally, we receive notices that challenge the validity of our patents. Intellectual property litigation can be expensive, time consuming and distracting to management. An adverse determination in any of. 20. Table of Contents. these types of disputes could prevent us from producing or offering some of our products and services or could prevent us from enforcing our intellectual property rights. Furthermore, settlements can involve royalty or other payments that could reduce our profit margins and may have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Our suppliers, customers and licensors may not be required to indemnify us in the event that a claim of infringement is asserted against us, or they may be required to indemnify us only up to a maximum amount, above which we would be responsible for any further costs or damages. Any of these claims or litigation may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may also be required to indemnify some customers and strategic partners under our agreements if a third party alleges or if a court finds that our products or activities have infringed upon, misappropriated or misused another party's proprietary rights. Indemnification provisions may, in some circumstances, extend our liability beyond the products we provide and may include consequential damages and/or lost profits. Even if claims or litigation against us are not valid or successfully asserted, these claims could, and often do, result in significant costs and the diversion of the attention of management and other key employees to defend.. Our long-lived assets represent a significant portion of our total assets, and we may never realize their full value.. Our long-lived assets recorded as of December 31, 2017 were $144.4 million, representing 61.7% of our total assets, of which we have recorded plant, equipment and leasehold improvements of $49.3 million, as our operations require significant investments in machinery and equipment.. We perform goodwill impairment testing on an annual basis as of October 1 of each year.  Other long-lived assets, such as identifiable intangible assets and plant, equipment and leasehold improvements are reviewed for impairment whenever events, changes or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or asset group may not be recoverable. If we were to conclude that an additional future write - down of our long-lived assets is necessary, we would have to record the appropriate charge, which could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations. A write - down of our long-lived assets may result from, among other things, deterioration in our performance and a decline in expected future cash flows and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. During the fourth quarter of 2017, based on the goodwill impairment test performed annually as of October 1, we recorded goodwill impairment charges of $19.1 million, of which $17.2 million related to the U.S. Debit and Credit segment resulting from continued market softness in demand for EMV cards, including price erosion and loss of market share in the United States.  The other impairment for $1.9 million related to Other which resulted from declines in net sales and operating losses incurred in our Canadian business.  See Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 6 \"Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,\" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information.. The adoption of the comprehensive tax reform by the U.S. government may materially adversely impact our financial results.. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax reform legislation that includes significant changes to taxation of business entities. These changes include, among others, (i) a permanent reduction to the corporate income tax rate, (ii) a partial limitation on the deductibility of business interest expense, (iii) elimination of deduction for income attributable to domestic production activities and (iv) a partial shift of the U.S. taxation of multinational corporations from a tax on worldwide income to a territorial system (along with a transitional rule that taxes certain historic foreign accumulated earnings and certain rules that aim to prevent erosion of U.S. income tax base). The Company is still evaluating the potential impact of the legislation on its financial results.  In particular, however, given our substantial indebtedness and related interest expense, our inability to fully deduct our interest expense from our taxable income may result in an increase in the Company's effective tax rate, thereby having a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our failure to operate our business in accordance with the standards of the PCI Security Standards Council or other industry standards applicable to our customers, such as Payment Card Brand certification standards, could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Many of our customers issue their cards on the networks of the Payment Card Brands that are subject to the standards of the PCI Security Standards Council or other standards and criteria relating to service providers' and manufacturers' facilities, products and physical and logical security which we must satisfy in order to be eligible to. 21. Table of Contents. supply products and services to such customers. Most of our contractual arrangements with our customers may be terminated if we fail to comply with these standards and criteria.. We make significant investments to our network of high - security facilities in the United States and Canada in order to meet these standards and criteria, including investments required to satisfy changes adopted from time to time in their respective standards and criteria. Further investments may be costly, and if we are unable to continue to meet these standards and criteria, we may become ineligible to provide products and services that have constituted in the past an important part of our revenue and profitability. For the year ended December 31, 2017, the vast majority of the products we produced and services we provided were subject to certification with one or more of the Payment Card Brands. If we were to lose our certification from one or more of the Payment Card Brands, Interac (in Canada) or PCI certification for one or more of our facilities, we may lose the ability to produce cards for or provide services to banks issuing credit or debit cards on the networks of the Payment Card Brands. If we are not able to produce cards for or provide services to any or all of the issuers issuing debit or credit cards on such networks, we could lose a substantial number of our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business may be materially adversely affected by costs relating to product defects, and we could be faced with product liability and warranty claims.. We offer highly complex services and products and, accordingly, from time to time defects have occurred. Such defects can give rise to significant costs, including expenses relating to recalling products, replacing defective items, writing down defective inventory, the loss of potential sales and claims by third parties. In addition, the occurrence of such defects may give rise to product liability and warranty claims, including liability for damages caused by such defects. If we sell defective products into the market, our reputation could suffer and we may lose sales opportunities and incur liability for damages, including damage claims from customers in excess of the amounts they pay us for our products, including consequential damages. In addition, our customers may recall their products if they prove to be defective or make compensatory payments in accordance with industry or business practice or in order to maintain good customer relationships. If such a recall or payment is caused by a defect in one of our products, our customers may seek to recover all or a portion of their losses from us. If any of these risks materialize, our reputation would be harmed and there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Demand for Financial Payment Cards may be materially adversely impacted by U.S. and global market and economic conditions.. For the foreseeable future, we expect to continue to derive most of our revenue from products and services we provide to the financial services industry. Given this concentration, we are exposed to the economic conditions affecting the financial services industry in the United States and Canada. For example, prolonged economic downturns typically have resulted in significant reductions in the demand for general purpose credit cards due to tightening credit conditions. A prolonged poor economic environment could result in significant decreases in demand by current and potential customers for our products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. If the U.S. government puts significant tariffs or other restrictions on goods imported into the United States, our revenue and results of operations may be materially harmed.. Most of our chips, as well as certain other raw materials, are imported from companies located outside of the United States. The U.S. government may restrict trade with certain countries and/or impose tariffs on imports from certain countries. The current U.S. administration has expressed antipathy towards certain existing international trade agreements, including NAFTA, and made comments suggesting that it supports significantly increasing tariffs on goods imported into the United States. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, it remains unclear what actions, if any, the United States government will take with respect to NAFTA, other international trade agreements and tariffs on goods imported into the United States. If the United States were to withdraw from or materially modify NAFTA or other international trade agreements to which it is a party, or if tariffs are imposed on products that we import from our overseas suppliers, we may be required to raise our prices or find alternative suppliers, which may not be possible at the same cost or quality, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Economic conditions and regulatory changes leading up to and following the United Kingdom's exit from the. European Union could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. 22. Table of Contents. On June 23, 2016, the United Kingdom (the \"U.K.\") held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the European Union (the \"E.U.\"), commonly referred to as \"Brexit.\" As a result of the referendum, the negotiation process to determine the future terms of the U.K.'s withdrawal from the E.U. is ongoing, including the terms of trade between the U.K. and E.U.  The results of these negotiations could adversely affect European or worldwide economic or market conditions and could contribute to instability in global financial markets. In addition, Brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the U.K. determines which E.U. laws to replace or replicate.  Furthermore, Brexit may result in additional tariffs both on raw materials imported into the U.K., as well as our products manufactured in the U.K. and sold elsewhere, resulting in competitive pricing pressures. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse impact our U.K. operations, which accounted for 12.2% and 9.6% of our net sales for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.. The terms under which the U.K. withdraws from the E.U., or the failure to reach terms that ensure a smooth exit, could cause significant volatility in global stock markets and currency exchange rate fluctuations, which could impact the strength of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies in which we conduct business, including the British Pound. If other members of the E.U. consider exit as well, we could face further disruptions and uncertainty with respect to our business operations. The strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies may materially adversely affect our operating results.. We rely on licensing arrangements in production and other fields, and actions taken by any of our licensing partners could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Many of our products integrate third - party technologies that we license or otherwise obtain the right to use, including software relating to smart card operating systems used in products such as EMV cards. As part of our strategy, we have entered into licensing agreements with other leading industry participants that provide us with, among other benefits, access to technology owned by third parties. For example, we license Java card technology from Oracle and Multos card technology from Multos International, a subsidiary of a competitor, for use in certain of our products, including in EMV cards. This Java and Multos card technology provides a secure environment for applications on smart cards and other devices with limited memory and processing capabilities, and we rely on our commercial arrangements with Oracle and Multos International for the continued use of these platforms. Oracle and Multos International may not continue to renew their licenses with us on similar terms or at all, which could negatively impact our net sales. We have also entered into cross - licensing agreements with certain of our competitors that provide for an exchange of intellectual property, including the sharing of certain patent rights in our respective portfolios. If we are unable to continue to successfully renew these agreements, we may lose our access to certain technologies that we rely upon to develop certain of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations.. Most of our facilities are leased, in whole or in part, and our inability to renew our leases on commercially acceptable terms or at all may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Most of our facilities are located, in whole or in part, on leased property. We may be unable to renew such leases on commercially acceptable terms or at all. Our inability to renew our leases, or a renewal of our leases with a rental rate higher than the prevailing rate under the applicable lease prior to expiration, may have a material adverse effect on our operations, including disrupting our operations or increasing our cost of operations. In the event of non - renewal of any of our leases, we may be unable to locate suitable replacement properties for our facilities or we may experience delays in relocation that could lead to a disruption in our operations. In addition, if we close a facility, we may not be able to sublease the facility for terms that would cover our existing lease costs, or we may not be able to sublease the facility at all which could have an adverse impact on our operating costs and cash flows. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are dependent on our senior leadership team.. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the efforts of our senior management. We believe there are only a limited number of available and qualified executives with substantial experience in our industry.  Furthermore, most members of our senior leadership team have a relatively short tenure in their respective positions with the Company, and additional turnover within the management team in the near term could delay or prevent us from fully implementing our business strategy and, consequently, having a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 23. Table of Contents. If any member of senior management dies or becomes incapacitated, or leaves the Company to pursue employment opportunities elsewhere, we may need to locate an adequate replacement. To the extent that we are unable to hire an adequate replacement, or are unable to do so within a reasonable period of time, there could be a material adverse effect on our business.. The ability to recruit, retain and develop qualified personnel is critical to our success and ability to grow.. Our business functions are complex and require wide - ranging expertise and intellectual capital. For us to successfully compete and grow, we must retain, recruit and develop personnel who can provide the needed expertise across the entire spectrum of our intellectual capital needs. In addition, we must develop our personnel to provide succession plans capable of maintaining continuity in the midst of the inevitable unpredictability of human capital. However, the market for qualified personnel is competitive and we may not succeed in recruiting additional personnel or may fail to effectively replace current personnel who depart with qualified or effective successors. Our efforts to retain and develop personnel may also result in significant additional expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Our key personnel may not continue to be employed or we may be unable to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. Such a failure to retain or attract key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business depends on the continued viability of the card networks of the Payment Card Brands.. The vast majority of cards we produce and the services we provide are associated with one of the Payment Card Brands. As a result, we depend on the continued viability of the card networks of the Payment Card Brands, including their authorization, clearing and settlement systems. If one or more of the Payment Card Brands were to discontinue their services or otherwise experience a decline in the volume of cards bearing their brands, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We are required to comply with laws and regulations in other countries and are exposed to business risks associated with our international operations.. For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, we derived 16.0%, 15.0%, and 15.5%, respectively, of our net sales from outside the United States, primarily in Canada and the United Kingdom. As a result, we are subject to numerous evolving and complex laws and regulations which apply, among other things, to financial reporting standards, corporate governance, data privacy, tax, trade regulations, export controls, competitive practices, and labor and health and safety laws and regulations in each jurisdiction in which we operate. For example, the European Union adopted the General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\"), which will go into effect in May 2018, and requires companies to satisfy new requirements regarding the handling of personal and sensitive data, including its use, protection and the ability of persons whose data is stored to correct or delete such data about themselves. Complying with the GDPR may cause us to incur substantial operational costs or require us to change our business practices. Despite our efforts to bring practices into compliance before the effective date of the GDPR, we may not be successful either due to internal or external factors such as resource allocation limitations or a lack of vendor cooperation. Non-compliance could result in proceedings against us by governmental entities or others and fines up to the greater of \20020 million or 4% of annual global revenues. We may also experience difficulty retaining or obtaining new European or multi-national customers due to the compliance cost, potential risk exposure, and uncertainty for these entities. We may find it necessary to establish systems to maintain personal data originating from the European Union in the European Economic Area, which may involve substantial expense and distraction from other aspects of our business. In the meantime, there could be uncertainty as to how to comply with European Union privacy law.. We are also required to obtain environmental permits and other authorizations or licenses from governmental authorities for certain of our operations and must protect our intellectual property worldwide. In the jurisdictions in which we operate, we need to comply with various standards and practices of different regulatory, tax, judicial and administrative bodies.. There are a number of risks associated with international business operations, including political instability (e.g., the threat of war, terrorist attacks or civil unrest), inconsistent regulations across jurisdictions, unanticipated changes in the regulatory environment, and import and export restrictions. Any of these events may affect our. 24. Table of Contents. employees, reputation, business or financial results as well as our ability to meet our objectives, including the following international business risks:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tnegative economic developments in economies around the world and the instability of governments, or the downgrades in the debt ratings of certain major economies;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsocial and political instability;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcomplex regulations governing certain of our products;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpotential terrorist attacks;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadverse changes in governmental policies, especially those affecting trade and investment;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tforeign currency exchange, particularly with respect to the Canadian Dollar and British Pound Sterling; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthreats that our operations or property could be subject to nationalization and expropriation.. We may not be in full compliance at all times with the laws and regulations to which we are subject. Likewise, we may not have obtained or may not be able to obtain the permits and other authorizations or licenses that we need. If we violate or fail to comply with laws, regulations, permits, health and safety regulations or other authorizations or licenses, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. In such a case, or if any of these international business risks were to materialize, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in laws, regulations and enforcement activities relating to the financial services industry and our industry may adversely affect the products, services and markets in which we operate.. We and our customers are subject to laws and regulations that affect the financial services industry in the many countries in which our products and services are used. In particular, our customers are subject to numerous laws and regulations applicable to banks, financial institutions and card issuers in the United States, Europe and other regions. The U.S. Government, for instance, has increased its scrutiny of a number of credit and debit card practices, from which some of our customers derive significant revenue. Regulation of the payments industry, including the Dodd - Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the \"Dodd - Frank Act\"), privacy and data security regulations such as the GLBA, and other regulations applicable to us and our customers, has increased significantly in recent years. Our failure to comply with the laws and regulations applicable to our business may result in the suspension or revocation of our licenses or registrations, the limitation, suspension or termination of our services, and/or the imposition of consent orders or civil and criminal penalties, including fines, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Environmental, health and safety laws and regulations expose us to liability and any such liability may have a material adverse effect on our business.. We are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in each jurisdiction in which we operate. Such regulations govern, among other things, emissions of pollutants into the air, wastewater discharges, waste disposal, the investigation and remediation of soil and groundwater contamination, and the health and safety of our employees. For example, our products and the raw materials we use in our production processes are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations. We are also required to obtain environmental permits from governmental authorities for certain of our operations. We may not be able to be at all times, in full compliance with such laws, regulations and permits. If we violate or fail to comply with these laws, regulations or permits, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators.. As with other companies engaged in similar activities or that own or operate real property, we face inherent risks of environmental liability at our current and historical production facilities. Certain environmental laws impose strict and, in certain circumstances, joint and several liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the cost of the investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous substances as well as liability for related damages. 25. Table of Contents. to natural resources. In addition, we may discover new facts or conditions that may change our expectations or be faced with changes in environmental laws or their enforcement that would increase our liabilities. Furthermore, our costs of complying with current and future environmental and health and safety laws, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, regulated materials, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The scientific examination of, political attention to, and rules and regulations on issues surrounding the existence and extent of climate change may result in an increase in our cost of production due to increases in the price of energy and/or the introduction of energy or carbon taxes. A variety of regulatory developments have been introduced that focus on restricting or managing the emission of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gasses. Companies such as ours may need to purchase at higher costs new equipment or raw materials with lower carbon footprints. These developments and further legislation that is likely to be enacted could negatively affect our operations. Changes in environmental regulations could increase our production costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Certain natural disasters, such as flooding, earthquakes, nuclear disasters, certain weather conditions and other catastrophic events, such as fire, may negatively impact our business.. The occurrence of severe weather events, such as rain, snow, wind, storms, hurricanes or other natural disasters, such as flooding, earthquakes, nuclear disasters, fire or a combination thereof, may negatively impact our business. If certain natural disasters, extreme weather conditions or other events such as fire were to directly damage, destroy or disrupt our production facilities, it could disrupt our operations, delay new production and shipments of existing inventory or result in costly repairs, replacements or other costs, all of which would negatively impact our business. Even if our production facilities are not directly damaged, a large natural disaster or fire may result in disruptions in distribution channels or supply chains and significantly increase the prices of the raw materials we use in our production processes. The impact of any such natural disasters, weather changes or other disasters such as fire depends on the specific geographic circumstances but could be significant, and we cannot predict the economic impact, if any, of natural disasters or climate change. Any such disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our insurance may be inadequate to cover future liabilities and our insurance premiums may increase substantially.. We may be subject to significant losses from claims, liabilities, hazards and disasters. While we currently maintain insurance which we believe is adequate and consistent with industry practice, we may experience losses in excess of our insurance coverage or claims not covered by our insurance. Furthermore, we may not be able to obtain insurance coverage in the future on acceptable terms, or at all. Any such losses not covered by insurance may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Consolidations in the banking, financial services and card processing industry could eliminate existing or potential clients.. Failures, mergers and consolidations of financial institutions and card processors may reduce the number of our clients and potential clients, which could have a material adverse effect on our net sales. Further, if our clients fail, merge with or are acquired by other entities that are not our clients, or that use fewer of our services, they may discontinue or reduce their use of our services. It is also possible that the larger financial institutions and card processors that result from mergers or consolidations would have greater leverage in negotiating terms with us or could decide to perform in - house some or all of the services which we currently provide or could provide. Any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We are subject to the credit risk that our customers may be unable to satisfy their obligations to us.. A significant portion of our net sales are on an open credit basis, with typical payment terms of 30 days, and up to 60 days in some cases, and we are subject to the credit risk of our customers being unable to make payments to us. If any of our customers experience a bankruptcy or are otherwise unable to satisfy their payment obligations to us, any related losses, if incurred, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 26. Table of Contents. If we are unable to implement and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and the market price of our common stock may be negatively affected.. As a public company, we are required to maintain internal controls over financial reporting and to report any material weaknesses in such internal controls. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of a company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Section 404 of the Sarbanes - Oxley Act of 2002 (the \"Sarbanes - Oxley Act\") requires that we evaluate and determine the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and provide a management report on the internal controls over financial reporting. As an \"emerging growth company\" (as defined by the JOBS Act) we are not currently required to obtain an attestation from our independent public accounting firm on our management report on internal controls over financial reporting. See \"We are an 'emerging growth company' and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure and other requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common stock less attractive to investors\" for a discussion of emerging growth company status.  However, we will be required to obtain such an attestation when we are no longer an emerging growth company.. We have in the past, and may in the future, discover areas of our internal controls that need improvement. If we or our independent registered public accounting firm discover a material weakness in the future, the disclosure of that fact, even if quickly remediated, could reduce the market's confidence in our financial statements and harm our stock price. We may not be able to effectively and timely implement necessary control changes and employee training to ensure continued compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other regulatory and reporting requirements. If we fail to maintain effective internal controls, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and sanctions and investors could lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports.. Changes in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial condition and results of operations.. From time to time, the FASB and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards or the interpretation of such standards that govern the preparation of our external financial statements. These changes are beyond our control, can be difficult to predict, may require extraordinary efforts or additional costs to implement and could materially impact how we report our financial condition and results of operations. It is possible that we may not be prepared to implement a new accounting standard when it is required to be implemented, which may lead to our financial statements being materially misstated, or to our identifying a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting.  Additionally, the adoption of new standards could require changes to our business and accounting processes, systems and controls to support recognition and disclosure under the new guidance. This could also lead to investors losing confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, and the market price of our common stock being negatively affected, and we could become the subject to investigations by the stock exchange on which our common stock is listed, the SEC, or other regulatory authorities, which could require additional financial and management resources.. The requirements of being a public company have increased certain of our costs and require significant management focus.. As a public company, our legal, accounting and other expenses associated with compliance related and other activities have increased significantly, and therefore, since our initial public offering, our management and other personnel have diverted attention from operational and other business matters to devote substantial time to implementing public company compliance requirements. In particular, we have incurred significant expenses and devoted substantial management effort toward ensuring compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which will increase when we are no longer an emerging growth company. We have hired additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge and we have established an internal audit function. Costs to obtain director and officer liability insurance also contribute to our increased costs.    As a result of the associated liability, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. Advocacy efforts by stockholders and third parties may also prompt even more changes in governance and reporting requirements, which could further increase our compliance costs.. 27. Table of Contents. We are an \"emerging growth company\" and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure and other requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common stock less attractive to investors.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the JOBS Act, and we intend to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not \"emerging growth companies\" including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes - Oxley Act with respect to our internal control over financial reporting, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a non - binding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We may take advantage of these provisions for up to five years or such earlier time that we are no longer an \"emerging growth company.\" We would cease to be an emerging growth company upon the earliest to occur of (i) the last day of the fiscal year (a) following the fifth anniversary of the completion of our initial public offering, (b) in which we have total annual gross revenue of at least $1.0 billion (adjusted for inflation) or (c) in which we become a large accelerated filer, which means that we have been public for at least 12 months, have filed at least one annual report and the market value of our common stock that is held by non - affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the last day of our then most recently completed second fiscal quarter and (ii) the date on which we have issued more than $1.0 billion in non - convertible debt during the prior three - year period. We may choose to take advantage of some but not all of these reduced reporting and other burdens. To the extent we take advantage of any of the reduced reporting burdens in our periodic filings, the information that we provide our security holders may be different than the information such holders might get from other public companies in which they hold equity interests. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile.. In addition, Section 107 of the JOBS Act provides that an \"emerging growth company\" can take advantage of the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act for complying with new or revised accounting standards. Stated another way, an \"emerging growth company\" can delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. We have chosen to \"opt out\" of such extended transition period, however, and, as a result, we will comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non - emerging growth companies. Section 107 of the JOBS Act provides that our decision to opt out of the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards is irrevocable.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment.. Volatility in the market price of our common stock may prevent you from being able to sell your shares at or above the price you paid for them. The market price for our common stock could fluctuate significantly for various reasons, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour operating and financial performance and prospects;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe public's reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in, or failure to meet, earnings estimates or recommendations by research analysts who track our common stock or the stock of other companies in our industry;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe failure of research analysts to cover our common stock;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe failure to maintain our listing on NASDAQ;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmaterial litigation or government investigations;. 28. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tgeneral economic, industry and market conditions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tstrategic actions by us, our customers or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tnew laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in general conditions in the U.S. and global economies or financial markets, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to such events;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in key personnel;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsales of common stock by our principal stockholders who currently own approximately 59% of our outstanding common stock;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsales of common stock by us or members of our management team;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe granting or exercise of employee stock options;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tvolume of trading in our common stock; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\timpact of the facts described elsewhere in \"Risk Factors.\". In addition, in recent years, the stock market has regularly experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant impact on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including companies in our industry. The changes frequently appear to occur without regard to the operating performance of the affected companies. Hence, the price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with us and these fluctuations could materially reduce our share price.. If we fail to meet the continued listing standards of NASDAQ, our common stock may be delisted, which may adversely affect the market price and liquidity of our common stock.. Our common stock is currently traded on the NASDAQ Capital Market (\"NASDAQ\"). NASDAQ requires us to meet certain financial, public float, bid price and liquidity standards on an ongoing basis in order to continue the listing of our common stock, including that we maintain a minimum closing bid price of $1.00 per share. On December 20, 2017, we effected a one-for-five reverse stock split with the intent of increasing the market price per share of our common stock in order to comply with NASDAQ's continued listing standards related to minimum bid price.  In addition, NASDAQ requires satisfaction of additional continued listing standards, including relating to market capitalization and/or profitability. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain compliance with the requirements for continued listing our common stock on NASDAQ. If our common stock is delisted and we are unable to list our common stock on another U.S. national securities exchange, we expect our securities would be quoted on an over-the-counter market.  If this were to occur, our stockholders could face significant material adverse consequences, including limited availability of market quotations for our common stock and reduced liquidity for the trading of our securities.  Furthermore, if our common stock were delisted it could adversely affect our ability to obtain financing for the continuation of our operations and/or result in the loss of confidence by investors, customers, suppliers and employees.. Our majority stockholders have the ability to control significant corporate activities. Tricor Pacific Capital Partners (Fund IV), Limited Partnership and Tricor Pacific Capital Partners (Fund IV) US, Limited Partnership (collectively, the \"Tricor Funds\"), affiliated with Parallel49 Equity (formerly known as Tricor Pacific Capital), own approximately 37% and 22% of our common stock, respectively, as of December 31, 2017. As a result of their ownership, the Tricor Funds, so long as they collectively hold a majority of our outstanding shares, will have the ability to control the outcome of matters submitted to a vote of stockholders and, through our board of directors, the ability to control decision - making with respect to our business direction and policies.. 29. Table of Contents. Matters over which the Tricor Funds, directly or indirectly, exercise control include:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\telection of directors;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmergers and other business combination transactions, including proposed transactions that would result in our stockholders receiving a premium price for their shares;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tother acquisitions or dispositions of businesses or assets;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincurrence of indebtedness and the issuance of equity securities;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trepurchases of stock and payment of dividends; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe issuance of shares to management under our incentive plans.. Conflicts of interest may arise because directors who are principals of our largest stockholder constitute a substantial portion of our board of directors.. Messrs. Bradley Seaman, Nicholas Peters and David Rowntree, who are officers or affiliates of Parallel49 Equity (and its predecessor), serve on our board of directors. The Tricor Funds, our majority stockholders, are funds controlled by Parallel49 Equity and its affiliates. Parallel49 Equity and entities controlled by it may in the future hold equity interests in entities that directly or indirectly compete with us, and companies in which it currently invests may begin directly or indirectly competing with us. As a result of these relationships, when conflicts between the interests of Parallel49 Equity, on the one hand, and of other stockholders, on the other hand, arise, these directors may not be disinterested. Although our directors and officers have a duty of loyalty to us under Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation, transactions that we enter into in which a director or officer has a conflict of interest are generally permissible so long as (1) the material facts relating to the director's or officer's relationship or interest as to the transaction are disclosed to our board of directors and a majority of our disinterested directors approves the transaction, (2) the material facts relating to the director's or officer's relationship or interest as to the transaction are disclosed to our stockholders and a majority of our disinterested stockholders approve the transaction or (3) the transaction is otherwise fair to us. Our certificate of incorporation also provides that any principal, officer, member, manager and/or employee of Parallel49 Equity or any entity that controls, is controlled by or under common control with Parallel49 Equity (other than any company that is controlled by us) or any investment funds managed by Parallel49 Equity will not be required to offer any transaction opportunity of which they become aware to us and could take any such opportunity for themselves or offer it to other companies in which they have an investment, unless such opportunity is offered to them solely in their capacities as our directors.. Our board of directors has elected to discontinue our quarterly dividend and we do not currently have a stock repurchase program in place. If the board of directors elects to reinstate the dividend or adopt a new stock repurchase program, there can be no assurances that we will pay regular dividends to our stockholders or effect stock repurchases under our stock repurchase program.. During August 2017, the Company discontinued its quarterly dividend. In addition, the Company's prior stock repurchase program expired in May 2017 and the board of directors has not approved a new stock repurchase plan. If, in the future, the board of directors reinstates the quarterly dividend or approves a new stock repurchase plan, our board may, in its sole discretion, change the amount or frequency of any dividends and stock repurchases, or discontinue the payment of dividends and stock repurchases entirely. In addition, because we are a holding company with no material direct operations, we are dependent on dividends and other payments from our operating subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to pay any future dividends on our common stock. We expect to cause our subsidiaries to make distributions to us in an amount sufficient for us to pay any future dividends and/or make stock repurchases. However, their ability to make such distributions will be subject to their operating results, cash requirements and financial condition, the applicable provisions of Delaware law that may limit the amount of funds available for distribution and our ability to pay cash dividends, and compliance with covenants and financial ratios related to existing or future indebtedness and other agreements with third parties. In addition, each of the companies in our corporate chain must manage its assets, liabilities and working capital in order to meet all of its cash obligations, including the payment of any future dividends or distributions. As a consequence of these various limitations and restrictions, we may not reinstate, or, if reinstated, we may have to reduce or eliminate the future payment of dividends on our common stock and/or stock. 30. Table of Contents. repurchases. Any change in the level of our dividends or the suspension of the payment thereof or change in the level of our stock repurchases or the suspension of the ability to make stock repurchases could have a material adverse effect the market price of our common stock.. Certain provisions of our organizational documents and other contractual provisions may make it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of our board of directors and may discourage hostile takeover attempts that some of our stockholders may consider to be beneficial.. Certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control if our board of directors determines that such changes in control are not in the best interests of us and our stockholders. The provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws include, among other things, the following:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe ability of our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms, including preferences and voting rights, of those shares without stockholder approval;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfollowing the time that the Tricor Funds and their affiliates cease to beneficially own a majority of our common stock, stockholder action may only be taken at a special or regular meeting and not by written consent, and special meetings may only be called by a majority of the total number of directors that we would have if there were no vacancies on our board of directors;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadvance notice procedures for nominating candidates to our board of directors or presenting matters at stockholder meetings;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfollowing the time that the Tricor Funds and their affiliates cease to beneficially own a majority of our common stock, removal of directors only for cause, and only upon the affirmative vote of 75% of our outstanding voting stock at a meeting of our stockholders called for that purpose;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tallowing only our board of directors to fill vacancies on our board of directors; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfollowing the time that the Tricor Funds and their affiliates cease to beneficially own a majority of our common stock, super - majority voting requirements to amend our bylaws and certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation.. We have entered into a director nomination agreement (the \"Director Nomination Agreement\") with the Tricor Funds that provides the Tricor Funds the right to designate nominees for election to our board of directors for so long as the Tricor Funds collectively beneficially own 5% or more of the total number of shares of our common stock then outstanding. The number of nominees that the Tricor Funds are entitled to designate under the Director Nomination Agreement bears the same proportion to the total number of members of our board of directors as the number of shares of common stock beneficially owned by the Tricor Funds bears to the total number of shares of common stock outstanding, rounded up to the nearest whole number. In addition, the Tricor Funds are entitled to designate the replacement for any of its board designees whose board service terminates prior to the end of such designee's term regardless of the Tricor Funds' beneficial ownership at such time. The Tricor Funds also have the right to have their designees participate on committees of our board of directors, subject to compliance with applicable law and stock exchange rules. The Director Nomination Agreement will terminate at such time as the Tricor Funds collectively own less than 5% of our outstanding common stock.. We have elected in our certificate of incorporation not to be subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the \"DGCL\"), an anti - takeover law. In general, Section 203 prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination, such as a merger, with a person or group owning 15% or more of the corporation's voting stock for a period of three years following the date the person became an interested stockholder, unless (with certain exceptions) the business combination or the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder is approved in a prescribed manner. Accordingly, we will not be subject to any anti - takeover effects of Section 203. However, our certificate of incorporation contains provisions that have the same effect as Section 203, except that they provide that the Tricor Funds, their affiliates (including any investment funds managed by Tricor) and any person that becomes an interested stockholder as a result of a transfer of 5% or more of our voting stock by the. 31. Table of Contents. forgoing persons to such person are excluded from the \"interested stockholder\" definition in our certificate of incorporation and are therefore not subject to the restrictions set forth therein that have the same effect as Section 203.. While these provisions have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of our company to negotiate with our board of directors, they could enable the board of directors to hinder or frustrate a transaction that some, or a majority, of our stockholders might believe to be in their best interests and, in that case, may prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors.. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management.. Any issuance of preferred stock could make it difficult for another company to acquire us or could otherwise adversely affect holders of our common stock, which could depress the price of our common stock.. Our board of directors has the authority to issue preferred stock and to determine the preferences, limitations and relative rights of shares of preferred stock and to fix the number of shares constituting any series and the designation of such series, without any further vote or action by our stockholders. Our preferred stock could be issued with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to the rights of our common stock. The potential issuance of preferred stock may delay or prevent a change in control of us, discouraging bids for our common stock at a premium over the market price, and adversely affect the market price and the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock will, to some extent, depend on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. We do not have any control over these analysts. If one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of us or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
