[1] "Item 1A Risk Factors. Investing in our ADSs involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risks and all other information contained in this Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto, before investing in our ADSs. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently believe are not material, also may become important factors that affect us. If any of the following risks materialize, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. In that case, the trading price of our ADSs could decline, and you may lose some or all of your investment.. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. The failure by the Criteo Engine to accurately predict engagement by a user could result in significant costs to us, lost revenue and diminished advertising inventory.. The effective delivery of our commerce marketing solution depends on the ability of the Criteo Engine to predict the likelihood that a consumer will engage with any given internet display advertisement with a sufficient degree of accuracy that our clients can achieve desirable returns on their marketing spend. We primarily charge our clients based on a CPC pricing model, and our clients only pay us when a user engages with the advertisement, usually by clicking on it. However, for Criteo Dynamic Retargeting, Criteo Customer Acquisition BETA and Criteo Audience  Match BETA, we purchase advertising inventory from publishers on a cost-per-thousand-impressions, or CPM, basis.. Our agreements with clients are open-ended and often do not include a spending minimum. Similarly, our contracts with publishers generally do not include long-term obligations requiring them to make their inventory available to us. Therefore, we need to continuously deliver satisfactory results for our clients and publishers in order to maintain and increase revenue, which in turn depends in part on the optimal functioning of the Criteo Engine.. In addition, as we have increased the number of clients and publishers that use our offering on a global basis, we have experienced significant growth in the amount of data processed by the Criteo Engine and the number of advertising impressions we deliver. As the amount of data and number of variables processed by the Criteo Engine increase, the risk of errors in the type of data collected, stored or accessed increases. In addition, the calculations that the algorithms must compute become increasingly complex and the likelihood of any defects or errors increases.. If we were to experience significant errors or defects in the Criteo Engine, our solution could be impaired or stop working altogether, which could prevent us from purchasing any advertising inventory and generating any revenue until the errors or defects were detected and corrected. Other negative consequences from significant errors or defects in the Criteo Engine could include:. • a loss of clients and publishers;. • lower click-through rates;. • lower conversion rates;. • lower profitability per impression, up to and including negative margins;. • faulty inventory purchase decisions for which we may need to bear the cost;. • lower return on marketing spend for our clients;. • lower price for the advertising inventory we are able to offer to publishers;. • delivery of advertisements that are less relevant or irrelevant to users;. 23. • liability for damages or regulatory inquiries or lawsuits; and. • harm to our reputation.. Furthermore, the ability of the Criteo Engine to accurately predict engagement by a user depends in part on our ability to continuously innovate and improve the algorithms underlying the Criteo Engine in order to deliver positive results for our clients and publishers that can be clearly attributed to the services we provide. The failure to do so could result in delivering poor performance for our clients and a reduced ability to secure advertising inventory from publishers.. If failures in the Criteo Engine or our inability to innovate and improve the algorithms underlying the Criteo Engine result in our clients and publishers ceasing to partner with us, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to replace, in a timely or effective manner, departing clients with new clients that generate comparable revenue or departing publishers with new publishers that offer similar internet advertising inventory. As a result, the failure by the Criteo Engine to accurately predict engagement of users and to continue to do so over time could result in significant costs to us, lost revenue and diminished advertising inventory.. The proper functioning of the Criteo Engine may be impaired by fraudulent or malicious activity, including non-human traffic.. It is possible that fraudulent or malicious activity, including non-human traffic, could impair the proper functioning of the Criteo Engine. For example, the use of bots or other automated or manual mechanisms to generate fraudulent clicks or misattribute clicks on advertisements we deliver could overstate the performance of our advertising. Preventing and combating fraud requires constant vigilance, and we may not always be successful in our efforts to do so. It may be difficult to detect fraudulent or malicious activity, particularly because the perpetrators of such activity, which may include foreign governments, may have significant resources at their disposal, may frequently change their tactics and may become more sophisticated, requiring us to improve our processes for detecting and controlling such activity. Such fraudulent or malicious activity could result in negative publicity and reputational harm and require significant additional management time and attention. Further, if we fail to detect or prevent fraudulent or malicious activity, our clients may experience or perceive a reduced return on their investment or heightened risk associated with the use of our products, resulting in refusals to pay, demands for refunds, loss of confidence, withdrawal of future business and potential legal claims.. Similarly, if we show advertising or inventory that is fraudulent, we may lose the trust of our clients, which would harm our brand and reputation. If potential clients perceive that the Criteo Engine is vulnerable to bots or similar non-human traffic, fraudulent clicks or other malicious activity, we may not be able to maintain our existing clients or attract new clients.  As a result, our business could suffer and our results of operations could be materially impacted.. Our business depends on our ability to maintain the quality of content for our clients and publishers.. Our client's satisfaction depends on our ability to place advertisements with publisher content that is well-suited to the client product or service. If we are unable to keep our clients' advertisements from being placed in unlawful or inappropriate content, our reputation and business may suffer. In particular, we could be treated as a spammer and blocked by internet service providers or regulators. In addition, if we place advertisements on websites containing content that is not permitted under the terms of the applicable agreements with a client, we may be unable to charge the client for clicks generated on those sites, the client may terminate their campaign, the client may require us to indemnify them for any resulting third party claims, or the client may allege breach of contract. Further, our publishers rely upon us not to place advertisements on their websites that are unlawful or inappropriate. If we are unable to maintain the quality of our client and publisher content as the number of clients and publishers we work with continues to grow, our reputation and business may suffer and we may not be able to retain or secure additional clients or publisher relationships.. 24. If we fail to innovate, adapt and respond effectively to rapidly changing technology, our solution may become less competitive or obsolete.. Our future success will depend on our ability to continuously enhance and improve our solution to meet client needs, add functionality to our client platform, and address technological and industry advancements. If we are unable to enhance our commerce marketing portfolio to meet market demand in a timely manner, we may not be able to maintain our existing clients or attract new clients.. For example, as ecommerce and consumption of content continues to migrate from the desktop web to mobile and tablet devices and advertisements more frequently include video or incorporate animation, sound and/or interactivity, which we refer to as rich media content, businesses are increasingly demanding that Display Advertising solutions extend to all three screens and support video and rich media content.. In addition, as consumers spend more time watching video and playing social network games online, including within mobile applications, as opposed to browsing static web pages, businesses may increasingly shift their advertising budgets to video and game publishers and to mobile applications or, if consumers fail to engage with advertisements displayed on smaller screens, reduce their Display Advertising budgets. Although online advertising has long facilitated the availability of free or low-cost online content for consumers, consumers have increasingly chosen to pay for advertising-free services such as Netflix, which similarly could lead businesses to reduce their advertising budgets. In order to maintain and continue to grow our revenue, we may need to continue to adapt and improve our offering to offer video and rich media content advertisements and to enhance user engagement with advertisements on mobile applications. In addition, there may be developments in the way we purchase inventory that require us to adapt our technology. For example, in early 2017, we launched Criteo Direct Bidder, our next generation header bidding technology, now directly connected with the ad servers of 1,500 large publishers. Although Criteo Direct Bidder has been positively received by publishers, there can be no assurance that we will continue to adequately address the increased use of header bidding in the publisher inventory sector of the industry.. Our complete solution for personalized mobile advertising involves delivery of Display Advertising to the web browsers of mobile devices, which we refer to as in-browser, as well as within mobile applications, which we refer to as in-app. To date, the majority of our revenue derived from the delivery of Display Advertising on mobile devices is still from in-browser advertisements. We may not be successful in generating comparable revenue from our mobile in-app solution or sustain revenue from our in-browser solution. We have developed a \"Universal Match\" cross-device matching solution that allows us to match users across devices based on our Identity Graph. However, as the number of sales involving multiple devices increases, there can be no assurance that our Identity Graph will be strong enough to track sales across devices, thereby impairing our ability to properly attribute sales of our clients' products being generated by our services.. Additionally, in the fourth quarter of 2017, we released two new products in beta version, Criteo Customer Acquisition and Criteo Audience Match. Criteo Customer Acquisition BETA helps retailers acquire new customers by using their intent information across a pool of retailers, and Criteo Audience Match BETA allows retailers to accurately target and re-engage customers that are already in their CRM system in order to drive sales. There can be no assurance that these products will be successful.. If we are unable to successfully develop, enhance or acquire new products to continuously meet clients' needs or are unable to adapt our organization to market these new products, our offering may become less competitive or obsolete.. 25. Our ability to generate revenue depends on our collection of significant amounts of data from various sources, which may be restricted by consumer choice, restrictions imposed by clients, publishers and browsers or other software developers, changes in technology, and new developments in laws, regulations and industry standards.. Our ability to optimize the delivery of internet advertisements for our clients depends on our ability to successfully leverage data, including data that we collect from our clients, data we receive from our publisher partners and third parties, and data from our own operating history. Using cookies, device identifiers, and similar tracking technologies, we collect information about the interactions of users with our clients' and publishers' digital properties (including, for example, information about the placement of advertisements and users' shopping or other interactions with our clients' websites or advertisements). Our ability to successfully leverage such data depends on our continued ability to access and use such data, which could be restricted by a number of factors, including consumer choice, restrictions imposed by clients, publishers and web browser developers or other software developers, changes in technology, including changes in web browser technology, and new developments in, or new interpretations of, laws, regulations and industry standards.. Consumer resistance to the collection and sharing of the data used to deliver targeted advertising, increased visibility of consent or \"do not track\" mechanisms as a result of industry regulatory and/or legal developments, the adoption by consumers of browsers settings or \"ad-blocking\" software and the development and deployment of new technologies could materially impact our ability to collect data or reduce our ability to deliver relevant advertisements, which could materially impair the results of our operations.. Further, there is a risk that web browser developers, such as Apple, Microsoft Corp. (\"Microsoft\") or Google, may implement changes in browser or device functionality that impair our ability to understand the preferences of consumers, including by limiting the use of third-party cookies or other tracking technology or data indicating or predicting consumer preferences. These web browser developers have significant resources at their disposal and command substantial market share, and any restrictions they impose could foreclose our ability to understand the preferences of a substantial number of consumers. For example, Apple launched its Intelligent Tracking Prevention (\"ITP\") feature in its Safari browser in September 2017, which blocks some or all third-party cookies by default on mobile and desktop and therefore makes it more difficult for third-party providers like Criteo to access data on Safari users. Similarly, search engines and other service providers that explicitly do not allow the tracking of data, such as DuckDuckGo, Inc., have been growing and may continue to grow in popularity. We have adapted our offering to enable us to continue to access data and deliver Display Advertising on such web browsers, but there can be no assurance that Apple or another developer will not release technology that further inhibits our ability to collect data or that regulators will not challenge the transparency of our offerings. In addition, the adaptations to our offering that we have implemented or may implement in response to browser changes like Safari's ITP feature may prove objectionable to regulators, clients, users or others, and changes in legal regulations or interpretations of legal regulations regarding data privacy could prevent or prohibit the implementation of such adaptations. If we are blocked from serving advertisements to a significant portion of internet users, our business could suffer and our results of operations could be harmed.. Furthermore, by restricting our access to data, browser features such as Safari's ITP feature could cause the overall quantity of the data we collect on consumers to be diminished. If we are unable to mitigate the impacts of any such browser features on our business for a substantial period of time, as a result of such diminution in collected data, the accuracy, effectiveness and value of our offering could be materially impacted.. Similarly, Internet users are increasingly able to download free or paid \"ad-blocking\" software, including on mobile devices, that prevents third-party cookies from being stored on a user's computer and blocks advertisements from being displayed to such user. Although online advertising has long facilitated the availability of free or low-cost online content for consumers, consumers have increasingly chosen to pay for advertising-free services such as Netflix or download free or paid \"ad-blocking\" software. If the availability of ad-blocking software or advertising-free services increases and their use becomes more prevalent on computers and mobile devices, fewer of our cookies or our clients' cookies may be set in browsers. As a result, the number of users to whom we could serve our clients' advertisements could be materially restricted, and the Criteo Engine would be denied the benefits of the data and impressions we could have otherwise collected from such users, which would adversely affect our business.. 26. If a significant number of web browser users download such \"ad-blocking\" software or switch to advertising-free services or platforms, our business could be materially impacted.. In addition, our ability to collect and use data may be restricted or prevented by a number of other factors, including:. • the failure of our network, hardware, or software systems, or the network, hardware, or software systems of our clients;. • variability in user traffic on clients' websites or mobile applications;. • decisions by some of our clients or publishers to restrict our ability to collect data from them, third parties and users or to refuse to implement mechanisms we request to ensure compliance with our legal obligations;. • changes in device functionality and settings, and other new technologies, which make it easier for users to prevent the placement of cookies or other tracking technology and impact our publishers' or our clients' ability to collect and use data;. • changes by large internet and technology companies to the nature of Display Advertising (for example, any changes in Apple's Identifier for Advertising, or IDFA, that could prevent us from identifying users and associating particular browsing behaviors to those users as they use mobile applications that run on Apple's operating system);. • changes in traffic filtering performed by various internet service providers, causing some of the information we use for tracking to be removed before requests are sent to our servers;. • our inability to develop an identity graph that is strong enough to properly match users and track sales across an increasing number of devices and environments;. • our inability to grow our client and publisher base in new industry verticals and geographic markets in order to obtain the critical mass of data necessary for the Criteo Engine to perform optimally in such new industry verticals or geographic markets;. • malicious traffic (such as non-human traffic) that introduces \"noise\" in the information that we collect from clients and publishers;. • interruptions, failures or defects in our data collection, mining, analysis and storage systems; and. • changes in laws, rules, regulations and industry standards or increased enforcement of laws, rules, regulations and industry standards in or across any of the geographies in which we operate or may want to operate in the future.. Any of the above described limitations on our ability to successfully collect, utilize and leverage data could also materially impair the optimal performance of the Criteo Engine and severely limit our ability to reach and engage users with our advertisements, which would harm our business and adversely impact our future results of operations.. 27. If we fail to access a consistent supply of advertising inventory and expand our access to such inventory, our business and results of operations could be harmed.. Essentially all of our revenue is derived from placing advertisements on publisher digital properties that we do not own. As a result, we do not own or control the advertising inventory upon which our business depends. We currently access advertising inventory through various channels, including through direct relationships with publishers, advertising exchange platforms (such as Google's DoubleClick Ad Exchange and Microsoft's Ad Exchange) and other platforms that aggregate the supply of advertising inventory, such as Appnexus Inc., The Rubicon Project, Inc., PubMatic, Inc., Taboola, Inc., Baidu, Inc. and Yandex N.V.. Since our contracts with publishers with whom we have direct relationships generally do not include long-term obligations requiring them to make their inventory available to us, our ability to continue to purchase inventory from these publishers depends in part on our ability to consistently pay sufficiently competitive CPMs for their advertising inventory, or in the case of Criteo Sponsored Products to generate sufficient revenue, as well as our ability to offer advertisements from high quality companies. Similarly, as more companies compete for advertising impressions on advertising exchange platforms and other platforms that aggregate supply of advertising inventory, advertising inventory may become more expensive, which may adversely affect our ability to acquire it and to deliver internet display advertisements on a profitable basis.. Our access to advertising inventory may also be affected by the increased use of header bidding, by which impressions that would traditionally have been exposed to different potential sources of demand in a sequence, of which we were a part, are instead made available simultaneously to competitive bidding by multiple demand sources that use header bidding tags. This may provide us with access to more advertising inventory, but there is no guarantee that selling publishers will allocate to us a header bidding slot or accept our header bidding tags or that advertising inventory will not be more expensive as a result of the increased competition in the process of header bidding. Also, as a result of header bidding, we may receive multiple bid requests for the same impression, which may result in us bidding against ourselves and create false liquidity in an auction, if we are not able to accurately determine the source of the inventory.. Many widely used aggregators of advertising inventory are owned by companies that may compete with us for clients. Competitive pressure may incentivize these companies to limit our access to advertising inventory available through their platforms. Any interference with our ability to access advertising inventory could materially impair our ability to deliver advertisements for our clients. In addition, since we rely on a limited number of companies for access to significant portions of available advertising inventory, the loss of access to advertising inventory from one of those companies could negatively impact our ability to deliver internet display advertisements for our clients. Any of these consequences could therefore adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. In order to grow our publisher base, we will need to expand the breadth and quality of businesses we work with. In addition, in order to grow our client base, we must expand our access to new sources of quality advertising inventory, and maintain a consistent supply of such quality inventory. While we have historically relied on direct relationships with publishers, as well as on advertising exchange platforms and other platforms that aggregate supply of advertising inventory, we may increasingly rely on direct relationships with strong publisher partners in order to maintain the necessary access to, and establish a greater amount of preferred access to, quality advertising inventory. In order to enter into or maintain such direct relationships, we may need to agree to terms that are unfavorable to us, including, for example, contractual minimums, bonuses and/or long-term commitments for advertising inventory. In addition, as we attempt to improve our offerings to enable businesses to place advertisements with publishers other than on the web, including mobile applications, video and social games, we will need to develop and improve our access to publishers in those environments. Our ability to attract new publishers on the web, mobile applications, video and social games will depend on various factors, some of which are beyond our control.. 28. Therefore, we cannot guarantee that we will successfully grow our direct relationships with new publishers or maintain or expand our access to quality advertising inventory through other channels and, if we are not successful, our business and results of operations could be harmed. In addition, even if we do grow our direct relationships, we cannot assure you that those direct relationships with publishers will be on terms favorable to us.. The Criteo Shopper Graph, which is a key element of the Criteo Commerce Marketing Ecosystem, is still new and may not be successful.. With the Criteo Shopper Graph, we are building one the world's largest data sets focused on shoppers. We will continue to develop the Criteo Shopper Graph, as it supports our current products and we expect it to be key to the development and launch of new products. Although we have been building elements of the data collectives that comprise the Criteo Shopper Graph since 2015, the Criteo Shopper Graph as a whole is still new and may not be successful. If too few of our clients provide us with the permission to share their data or if our clients choose to stop sharing their data, or if regulatory or other factors inhibit or restrict us from maintaining the data collectives underlying the Criteo Shopper Graph, the value of the Criteo Shopper Graph could be materially diminished and our business could be materially impacted.. We may not be able to effectively integrate the businesses we acquire, which may adversely affect our ability to achieve our growth and business objectives.. Over the past four years, we have acquired HookLogic, DataPop, Inc., Monsieur Drive SAS and various other businesses. We may seek to acquire additional businesses, products, technologies or teams in the future. If we identify an appropriate acquisition candidate, we may not be successful in negotiating the terms and/or financing of the acquisition, and our due diligence may fail to identify all of the problems, liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges of an acquired business, product or technology, including issues related to intellectual property, product quality or architecture, employees or clients, regulatory compliance practices or revenue recognition or other accounting practices.. Any acquisition or investment may require us to use significant amounts of cash, issue potentially dilutive equity securities or incur debt. In addition, acquisitions, including our recent acquisitions, involve numerous risks, any of which could harm our business, including:. • difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, services and personnel of acquired businesses, especially if those businesses operate outside of our core competency;. • the need to integrate operations across different geographies, cultures and languages and to address the particular economic, currency, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries;. • cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired company into our organization;. • ineffectiveness or incompatibility of acquired technologies or services;. • potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses;. • inability to maintain the key business relationships and the reputation of acquired businesses;. • failure to successfully further develop the acquired technology in order to recoup our investment;. • unfavorable reputation and perception of the acquired product or technology by the general public;. • diversion of management's attention from other business concerns;. • liability or litigation for activities of the acquired business, including claims from terminated employees, clients, former shareholders or other third parties;. 29. • implementation or remediation of controls, practices, procedures and policies at acquired businesses, including the costs necessary to establish and maintain effective internal controls; and. • increased fixed costs.. In November 2016, we acquired HookLogic, a New York-based company that has developed a performance marketing exchange connecting consumer brand manufacturers with retail ecommerce sites via sponsored product ads sold by ecommerce retailers. We began integrating the HookLogic acquisition during the fourth quarter of 2016; however, there can be no assurance that the integration will be successful or that we will be able to leverage the acquired commercial relationships or technologies in the manner we anticipate.. In February 2015, we acquired DataPop, a Los Angeles-based company specializing in the optimization of shopping campaigns on large search engines. In 2015, we began integrating DataPop's technology into our core platform, and in October 2016 we launched Criteo Predictive Search in the United States. In the third quarter of 2017, we decided to discontinue our Criteo Predictive Search offering, based on client and country-specific circumstances.. If we are unable to successfully integrate the businesses we have acquired or any business, product or technology we acquire in the future, our business and results of operations could suffer, and we may not be able to achieve our business and growth objectives.. The market in which we participate is intensely competitive, and we may not be able to compete successfully with our current or future competitors.. The market for internet advertising solutions is highly competitive and rapidly changing. New technologies and methods of buying advertising present a dynamic competitive challenge as market participants offer multiple new products and services, such as analytics, programmatic buying exchanges and header bidding technology, aimed at facilitating and/or capturing advertising spend. With the introduction of new technologies and the influx of new entrants to the market, we expect competition to persist and intensify in the future, which could harm our ability to increase sales and maintain our profitability.. We compete in the market for commerce marketing, primarily through Display Advertising. This market is rapidly evolving, highly competitive, complex and still fragmented, although rapidly consolidating. We face significant competition in this market, and we expect that competition will intensify in the future.. In addition to competing for marketing spend, we compete with many companies for advertising inventory, some of whom also operate their own advertising networks or exchanges from which we buy advertising inventory. Some of these companies that we compete with, either for marketing spend or for advertising inventory, may also be our clients or affiliated with our clients. Competitive pressure may incentivize such companies to cease to be our clients or cease to provide us with access to their advertising inventory. If this were to occur, our ability to place advertisements would be significantly impaired and our results of operations would be adversely affected.. In addition to existing competitors and intermediaries, we may also face competition from companies newly entering the market, which may include large established companies, such as Adobe (which acquired Omniture, Inc., Efficient Frontier, Inc. and TubeMogul, Inc.), Google (which operates Google Remarketing), Verizon, Inc. (which acquired AOL, Inc., which in turn had previously acquired Platform-A, Inc. (advertising.com), Millennial Media, and Yahoo!), Alliance Data (which acquired Conversant, Inc., which in turn had previously acquired Dotomi), Ve Interactive (which acquired eBay's display retargeting business, which in turn had previously acquired both Fetchback, Inc. and GSI Commerce Inc.), Tesco plc (which acquired Sociomantic) and AdRoll, all of which currently offer, or may in the future offer, solutions that result in additional competition for marketing spend or advertising inventory. Large and established internet and technology companies, such as those mentioned above and Amazon, Apple, Facebook, Google and Microsoft, may have the power to significantly change the very nature of the Display Advertising marketplaces in ways that could materially disadvantage us. For example, Amazon, Apple, Facebook, Google and Microsoft have a significant share of widely adopted industry platforms such as web browsers, mobile operating systems and advertising exchanges and networks.. 30. These companies could leverage their positions to make changes to their web browsers, mobile operating systems, platforms, exchanges, networks or other products or services that could be significantly harmful to our business and results of operations. These companies also have access to a significantly larger pool of data than we do and this larger pool of data may allow them to foreclose opportunities that might otherwise be available to us. In addition, changes to the method of serving advertisements with publishers, such as header bidding, present challenges to our business that could result in increased competition for advertising inventory.. Our current and potential competitors may have significantly more financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we have, be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and support of their products and services, have more extensive client bases and broader publisher relationships than we have, and have longer operating histories and greater name recognition than we have. As a result, these competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new technologies, develop deeper client relationships or offer services at lower prices. We may also face competition from companies we do not yet know about. If existing or new companies develop, market or resell competitive high-value marketing products or services, acquire one of our existing competitors or form a strategic alliance with one of our competitors, our ability to compete effectively could be significantly compromised and our results of operations could be harmed.. Any of these developments would make it more difficult for us to sell our offering and could result in increased pricing pressure, reduced gross margins, increased sales and marketing expense and/or the loss of market share.. Our international operations and expansion expose us to several risks.. As of December 31, 2017, we had a direct operating presence through 31 offices located in 19 countries and did business in 98 countries. Our primary research and development operations are located in France and the United States. In addition, we currently have international offices outside of France and the United States, which focus primarily on selling and implementing our offering in those regions. In the future, we may expand to other international locations. Our current global operations and future initiatives involve a variety of risks, including:. • localization of the product interface and systems, including translation into foreign languages and adaptation for local practices;. • compliance with (and liability for failure to comply with) applicable local laws and regulations, including, among other things, laws and regulations with respect to data protection and user privacy, consumer protection, spam and content, which laws and regulations may be inconsistent across jurisdictions;. • more stringent regulations relating to data security and the unauthorized use of, or access to, commercial and personal information, particularly in the European Union;. • taxation in a variety of jurisdictions with increasingly complex tax laws, the application of which can be uncertain;. • intensity of local competition for digital advertising budgets and internet display inventory;. • unexpected changes in laws and regulatory requirements, trade laws, tariffs, export quotas, customs duties or other trade restrictions;. • labor regulations and labor laws that can be interpreted as more advantageous to employees than those in the United States, including with respect to deemed hourly wage and overtime regulations;. • changes in a specific country's or region's political or economic conditions;. • challenges inherent to hiring and efficiently managing an increased number of employees over large geographic distances, including the need to implement appropriate systems, policies, benefits and compliance programs;. 31. • risks resulting from changes in currency exchange rates and the implementation of exchange controls, including restrictions promulgated by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Department of the Treasury, and other similar trade protection regulations and measures in the United States or in other jurisdictions;. • reduced ability to timely collect amounts owed to us by our clients in countries where our recourse may be more limited;. • limitations on our ability to reinvest earnings from operations derived from one country to fund the capital needs of our operations in other countries. • restrictions on foreign ownership and investments;. • limited or unfavorable intellectual property protection;. • exposure to liabilities under anti-money laundering laws, international and international sanction requirements and anti-corruption laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar laws and regulations in other jurisdictions; and. • restrictions on repatriation of earnings.. We have established operations in geographies such as China, India and Russia, and may establish operations in additional geographies in the near future, where we may face more complex regulatory environments and market conditions than those we have experienced in markets where we currently operate. If we invest substantial time and resources to expand our international operations and are unable to execute successfully or in a timely manner, our business and results of operations could suffer, and we may not be able to achieve our business and growth objectives.. Additionally, operating in international markets also requires significant management attention and financial resources. We cannot be certain that the investment and additional resources required in establishing operations in other countries will produce desired levels of revenue or profitability.. Regulatory, legislative or self-regulatory developments regarding internet privacy matters could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business.. The United States and foreign governments have enacted, considered or are considering legislation or regulations that could significantly restrict our ability to collect, process, use, transfer and pool data collected from and about consumers and devices. Trade associations and industry self-regulatory groups have also promulgated best practices and other industry standards relating to targeted advertising. Various U.S. and foreign governments, self-regulatory bodies and public advocacy groups have called for new regulations specifically directed at the digital advertising industry, and we expect to see an increase in legislation, regulation and self-regulation in this area.. In particular, legislative, judicial and regulatory developments in Europe, including the General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR, the review of the E-Privacy Directive Amendment and country-specific laws pursuant thereto (see the section entitled \"Business  -  Privacy, Data Protection and Content Control  -  Legal and Regulatory\" in Item 1 of Part I in this Form 10-K), may reduce the amount of data we can collect or process, which in turn could materially impact the accuracy, effectiveness and value of the Criteo Commerce Marketing Ecosystem.. The legal, regulatory and judicial environment we face around privacy and other matters is constantly evolving and can be subject to significant change. For example, the GDPR, which was agreed by E.U. institutions in 2016 and comes into effect after a two year transition period on May 25, 2018, updates and modernizes the principles of the 1995 Data Protection Directive and significantly increases the level of sanctions for non-compliance. Data Protection Authorities will have the power to impose administrative fines of up to a maximum of \20020 million or 4% of the data controller's or data processor's total worldwide global turnover of the preceding financial year.. 32. In addition to the GDPR, other proposed or new legislation or regulations could significantly affect our business. For example, in October 2016, the European Parliament plenary voted to confirm its mandate to launch negotiations on the E-Privacy Regulation proposal with the Council of the European Union. This proposal for a regulation aims to strengthen users' right to privacy and confidentiality of electronic communications and to align E-Privacy legislation with the new rules established by the GDPR. The E-Privacy Regulation would replace the E-Privacy Directive Amendment and would prevail over the GDPR in case of discrepancy. The E-Privacy Regulation could also result in new rules and mechanisms for \"cookie\" consent. The legislative process is not over yet and further amendments and adaptations are likely to be adopted during the negotiations phase. Therefore, it is not possible to know the final output of the text and assess its impact on our services yet.. Similarly, the legal and regulatory environment we face is uncertain. For example, because the E-Privacy Directive Amendment has been interpreted differently by various member states of the European Union, it is unclear whether a user's consent must be obtained prior to the placement of cookies for targeted advertising purposes. The type and form of user consent required by GDPR could also be subject to interpretation. If the GDPR or E-Privacy Directive Amendment is amended or interpreted to require explicit or unambiguous consent to the use of cookies, our clients may have to implement technical solutions that could result in a significant reduction of Criteo-placed advertising and first impressions on publisher websites. Moreover, many of our competitors are able to obtain explicit user consent as a condition to letting users access valuable services such as email, social media services or other services, which Criteo does not provide.. In addition to the uncertain interpretation of consent under the new European legal framework, there is an ongoing debate about whether the current guidance and approaches promulgated by industry groups in which we participate comply with E.U. law. In the past, government and other working groups have published opinions that such guidance is not sufficient to comply with applicable E.U. law. We could be adversely affected by changes to these guidelines and codes in ways that are inconsistent with our practices, or the practices of our publishers and clients, or conflict with the laws and regulations of the European Union or other international regulatory authorities.. In addition to restricting our collection of data, governments may also restrict the storage of information about their own citizens beyond their national borders. For example, on October 6, 2015, the European Court of Justice invalidated the E.U.-U.S. Safe Harbor framework, which we relied on to operate our data transfers both internally (for HR, CRM and other back-office data processing) and with several U.S. based partners (notably RTB platforms). Following the Safe Harbor invalidation, in July 2016, the European Commission announced the formal adoption of the \"EU-US Privacy Shield.\" We elected to rely on the Standard Contractual Clauses of the European Commission to secure our data transfers, but we cannot anticipate whether this legal scheme will be compromised in the future.. Restrictions on our ability to export data across borders could limit our ability to utilize technology infrastructure consolidation, redundancy and load-balancing techniques, resulting in increased infrastructure costs, decreased operational efficiencies and performance, and a greater risk of failure.. In addition, although the user information we retain relates primarily to purchase intent and does not permit us to personally identify individual users, we currently do business in over 90 countries and the interpretation of \"personally identifiable information\" (\"PII\"), personal data (both directly and indirectly identifying information) and sensitive data, and our obligations relating thereto, may vary from one country to the other. In some countries, operating a local data center is compulsory for the processing of PII. Moreover, in certain countries, the legal requirements surrounding PII are so new that their impact on doing business is not yet clear. For example, the FTC staff recently appeared to expand its definition of PII to include data that can be reasonably linked to a particular person, computer, or device, although the FTC staff has not yet clarified how newly included categories of PII, if any, will be treated.. If all types of PII (whether they allow direct identification of a person or whether they only permit the singling out of a person without identifying them) are treated the same way, thus requiring an opt-in for the processing of browsing data, Criteo's business could be materially impacted. Evolving definitions of PII may cause us to change our business practices, diminish the quality of our data and the value of our offerings, or hamper our ability to expand our offerings to new geographic markets.. 33. Clarifications of and changes to these existing and proposed laws, regulations, judicial interpretations and industry standards can be costly to comply with, and we may be unable to pass along those costs to our clients in the form of increased fees, which may negatively affect our operating results. Such changes can also delay or impede the development of new products, result in negative publicity and reputational harm, require significant incremental management time and attention, increase our risk of non-compliance and subject us to claims or other remedies, including fines or demands that we modify or cease existing business practices, including our ability to charge per click or the scope of clicks for which we charge. Additionally, any perception of our practices or products as an invasion of privacy, whether or not such practices or products are consistent with current or future regulations and industry practices, may subject us to public criticism, private class actions, reputational harm or claims by regulators, which could disrupt our business and expose us to increased liability.. We strive to comply with all applicable laws and regulations relating to privacy and data collection, processing, use and disclosure. However, these laws and regulations are continually evolving and often unclear and inconsistent across the jurisdictions in which we do business, and the measures we take to ensure our compliance with applicable privacy laws, regulations and industry standards may not be successful. For example, our compliance depends in part on our clients' adherence to privacy laws and regulations and their use of our services in ways consistent with visitors' expectations. We contractually require our clients to notify visitors to their websites or mobile applications about our services (i.e., that we place cookies and other tracking technologies and collect and share certain non-identifying data for purposes of targeting advertisements), and, when legally required, to obtain user consent to cookie or other tracking technology dropping, and further require that they link to pages where visitors can opt out of the collection or targeting. We rely on representations made to us by clients that they will comply with all applicable laws, including all relevant privacy and data protection regulations. We make reasonable efforts to enforce such representations and contractual requirements, but we do not fully audit our clients' compliance with our recommended disclosures or their adherence to privacy laws and regulations.. If our clients fail to adhere to our contracts in this regard, or a court or governmental agency determines that we have not adequately, accurately or completely described our own products, services and data collection, use and sharing practices in our own disclosures to consumers, then we and our clients may be subject to potentially adverse publicity, damages and related possible investigation or other regulatory activity in connection with our privacy practices or those of our clients. For example, liability for non-compliance with the guidelines issued in April 2012 by the Commission Nationale de l'Informatique et des Libertés (\"CNIL\") is shared between clients, publishers and networks, including us. If clients, publishers or networks on whom we rely fail to obtain the legally required consent, we could potentially be liable under these guidelines and could suffer damages, fines, penalties and reputational harm. In 2012, CNIL commenced an inquiry into our compliance with such guidelines, which was closed in July 2014 with no compliance actions for us to take.. In 2016, CNIL commenced a new inquiry into our compliance with French data privacy laws. The inquiry is still pending and focusing on the new features or products that we have deployed since the last investigation. At this stage, there can be no assurance that action will not be required by CNIL as a result of its open investigation or that there will not be further inquiries with respect to our compliance with privacy laws from CNIL or regulatory bodies in other jurisdictions.. 34. If we fail to successfully enhance our brand, our ability to protect and expand our client base will be impaired and our financial condition may suffer.. We believe that developing and maintaining awareness of the Criteo brand is critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our existing solution and any future products, such as products directed toward capturing broader advertising budgets, and is an important element in attracting new clients and publishers. Furthermore, we believe that the importance of brand recognition will increase as competition in our market increases. Successful promotion of our brand will depend largely on the effectiveness of our marketing efforts and on our ability to deliver valuable solutions for our clients and publishers. In the past, our efforts to build our brand have involved significant expenses and they may continue to do so in the future. As a result, we may not be able to develop our brand in a cost-effective manner. Furthermore, brand promotion activities may not yield any increased revenue, and even if they do, any increased revenue may not offset the expenses we incurred in building our brand.. If we fail to successfully promote and maintain our brand we may fail to attract enough new clients or publishers or retain enough of our existing clients or publishers, and our business could suffer.. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to expand into new marketing channels.. We define a marketing channel as a specific advertisement medium to engage with a user or a consumer for which we currently purchase inventory through a specific source. We started delivering elements of our offering through internet display advertisements in desktop browsers. Since then, we have expanded into mobile in-browser and in-app, native display, including on social media platforms, search engine marketing and video inventory.. In the future, we may decide to broaden the spectrum of our marketing channels further if we believe that doing so would significantly increase the value we can offer to clients. We believe a broader platform delivering our commerce marketing solution through complementary marketing channels can enhance our value proposition for existing and prospective clients.. However, any future attempts to enter new marketing channels may not be successful. We launched our Criteo Email Retargeting offering in 2014 further to the acquisition of Tedemis SA in February 2014. In the fourth quarter of 2016, we decided to discontinue our Criteo Email Retargeting offering based on country-specific circumstances. In addition, we launched our Criteo Predictive Search offering in the fourth quarter of 2016. In the third quarter of 2017, we decided to discontinue our Criteo Predictive Search offering based on client and country-specific circumstances.. Our success in expanding into any additional marketing channels will depend on various factors, including our ability to:. • identify additional marketing channels where the Criteo Commerce Marketing Ecosystem could perform;. • adapt the Criteo Commerce Marketing Ecosystem to additional marketing channels and effectively market it for such additional marketing channels to our existing and prospective clients;. • integrate newly developed or acquired marketing channels into our pay-for-performance model, with a clear and measurable performance attribution mechanism that works across all channels, and in a manner that is consistent with our privacy standards;. • accumulate sufficient data sets relevant for those marketing channels to ensure that the Criteo Engine has a sufficient quantity and quality of information to deliver relevant personalized advertisements through those additional marketing channels;. • achieve client performance levels through the new marketing channels that are similar to those delivered through existing marketing channels, and in any case that are not dilutive to the overall client performance;. 35. • identify and establish acceptable business arrangements with publishers to access inventories in sufficient quality and quantity for these new marketing channels;. • maintain our gross margin at a consistent level upon entering one or more additional marketing channels;. • compete with new market participants active in these additional marketing channels; and. • hire and retain key personnel with relevant technology and product expertise to lead the integration of additional marketing channels onto our platform, and sales and operations teams to sell and integrate additional marketing channels.. If we are unable to successfully adapt the Criteo Commerce Marketing Ecosystem to additional marketing channels and effectively market such offerings to our existing and prospective clients, or if we are unable to maintain our pay-for-performance model in these additional marketing channels, we may not be able to achieve our growth or business objectives.. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to expand into new industry verticals.. As we market our offering to a wider group of potential clients outside of our three key industry verticals of retail, travel and classifieds, which we define as commerce clients, including businesses in the automotive, telecommunications, consumer goods and finance industries, we will need to adapt our products and effectively market our value to businesses in these new industry verticals. Our success into new industry verticals will depend on various factors, including our ability to:. • design products and solutions that are attractive to businesses in such industries;. • provide high returns on marketing spend in such industries and maintain such high returns on marketing spend at scale;. • transparently measure the performance of such marketing spend based on accountable metrics;. • hire personnel with relevant industry vertical experience to lead sales and product teams;. • work with clients in new industry verticals through the advertising agencies that manage their advertising budgets; and. • accumulate sufficient data sets relevant for those industry verticals to ensure that the Criteo Engine has sufficient quantity and quality of information to deliver efficient and effective internet display advertisements within the relevant industry.. For example, with the acquisition of HookLogic in November 2016 and the introduction of Criteo Sponsored Products, we expanded our offering to benefit consumer brand manufacturers. However, historically, we have had very limited experience working with consumer brand manufacturers and there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain the client base built by HookLogic or that we will be able to expand the Criteo Sponsored Products business successfully.. If we are unable to successfully adapt our offering to appeal to businesses in industries other than our core verticals, or are unable to effectively market such solutions to businesses in such industries, we may not be able to achieve our growth or business objectives. Further, as we expand our client base and solution into new industry verticals, we may be unable to maintain our current client retention rates.. 36. Our revenue would decline if we fail to effectively coordinate the demand for and supply of advertising inventory in a specific geographic market.. The performance of the Criteo Engine in a specific geographic market depends on having sufficient clients implemented and utilizing our offering, and our ability to coordinate the demand for and supply of advertising inventory with the publishers in that market. Since we cannot consistently predict the demand for advertising inventory by our clients or the advertising inventory available to us, including on a priority basis, the demand for and supply of advertising inventory in that market may not be sufficient or sufficiently coordinated for the Criteo Engine to function optimally. As such, as we target new geographic markets, we will need to adequately coordinate the timing to onboard local clients and publishers. A failure to effectively manage demand for, and the supply of, advertising inventory processed through the Criteo Engine could impair its ability to accurately predict user engagement in that market, which could result in:. • a reduction in the amount of inventory our publishers make available to us in the future;. • a loss of existing clients or publishers;. • changes in the priority given to our advertisements by publishers;. • an adverse effect on our ability to attract new publishers willing to give us preferred access;. • harm to our reputation;. • increased cost; and. • lost revenue.. Our sales efforts with both potential clients and publishers require significant time and expense, and our success will depend on effectively expanding and integrating our sales and marketing operations and activities to grow our base of clients and publishers.. Attempting to increase our base of clients and publishers is a key component of our growth strategy. However, attracting clients and publishers requires substantial time and expense, and it may be difficult to identify, engage and market to potential clients that are unfamiliar with Criteo and our offering, particularly as we seek to address new marketing objectives for clients, or enter new marketing channels or new industry verticals. Furthermore, many potential clients require input from multiple internal constituencies to make advertising decisions, or delegate advertising decisions to advertising agencies. As a result, we must identify those involved in the purchasing decision and devote a sufficient amount of time to presenting our offering to those individuals (including providing demonstrations and comparisons of our value to other available solutions), which can be a costly and time-consuming process.. Our ability to grow our client and publisher base will depend to a significant extent on our ability to effectively expand our sales, marketing and publisher support operations. In particular, as we target new industry verticals, we will need to attract sales and publisher support personnel that are familiar with the relevant industries and geographic markets. We believe that there is significant competition for direct sales and support personnel with the sales skills and technical knowledge that we require.. Therefore, our ability to grow our client and publisher base will depend, in large part, on our success in recruiting, training and retaining the sales and publisher support personnel we require. We have recently hired a number of new sales personnel and expanded our marketing department. However, we cannot be sure that newly hired personnel will be integrated effectively, and such personnel may require significant training and may not become productive as quickly as we would like, or at all. If we are not successful in recruiting and training our client sales and publisher support personnel and streamlining our sales and business development processes to cost-effectively grow our client and publisher base, our ability to grow our business and our results of operations could be adversely affected.. 37. If we do not retain our senior management team and key employees, or attract additional highly skilled talent, we may not be able to sustain our growth or achieve our business objectives.. Our future success is substantially dependent on the continued service of our senior management team. Our management team is currently spread across multiple physical locations and geographies, which can strain the organization and make coordinated management more challenging. Our future success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees, particularly employees with the technical skills that enable us to deliver effective marketing solutions, client sales and publisher support representatives with experience in commerce marketing, in particular in Display Advertising, and more broadly employees that are highly qualified in their areas of expertise to support and grow our operations. Competition for highly skilled employees in our industry is intense. As a result, we may be unable to attract or retain the management and highly skilled personnel who are critical to our success, which could result in harm to our key client and publisher relationships, loss of key information, expertise or proprietary knowledge and unanticipated recruitment and training costs. The loss of the services of our senior management or other key employees could make it more difficult to successfully operate our business and pursue our business goals.. If we are unable to protect our proprietary information or other intellectual property, our business could be adversely affected.. We rely largely on trade secret law to protect our proprietary information and technology. We generally seek to protect our proprietary information through confidentiality, non-disclosure and assignment of invention agreements with our employees, contractors and parties with which we do business. However, we may not execute these agreements with every party who has access to our confidential information or contributes to the development of our intellectual property. In addition, those agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach.. Breaches of the security of our data center systems and infrastructure or other IT resources could expose us to a risk of loss of proprietary information. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use or reverse engineering of our technology or information. Moreover, our trade secrets may be disclosed to or otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors, and in these situations, we may have no or limited rights to stop their use of our information. To the extent that our employees, contractors or other third parties with whom we do business use intellectual property owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights to such intellectual property. If, for any of the above reasons, our intellectual property is disclosed or misappropriated, it would harm our ability to protect our rights and may have an adverse effect on our business.. Although we also rely on copyright laws to protect works of authorship created by us, including software, we do not register the copyrights in any of our copyrightable works. U.S. copyrights must be registered before the copyright owner may bring an infringement suit in the United States, and must be registered within three months of the publication of the underlying work if the copyright owner wants to seek statutory damages or attorney's fees in any U.S. enforcement action. Accordingly, if one of our unregistered U.S. copyrights is infringed by a third party, we will need to register the copyright before we can file an infringement suit in the United States, and our remedies in any such infringement suit may be limited.. As of December 31, 2017, we held five patents issued by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, one patent issued by the French Patent Office, one patent issued by the Japan Patent Office and one patent issued by the Korean Intellectual Property Office, and had filed 29 non-provisional U.S. patent applications, five European patent applications and one international patent application under the Patent Cooperation Treaty. We also own and use registered and unregistered trademarks on or in connection with our products and services in numerous jurisdictions.  In addition, we have also registered numerous domain names and are also pursuing the registration of trademarks and service marks in the United States and in certain locations outside the United States. Effective trademark, domain name and patent protection are expensive to develop and maintain, both in terms of initial and ongoing registration requirements and the costs of defending our rights, and there may be certain areas of our business that we cannot protect through the use of trademarks, domain names or patents.. 38. Any of our existing or future patents, trademarks or other intellectual property rights may not provide sufficient protection for our business as currently conducted or may be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative process or litigation. In addition, in the event that our trademarks are successfully challenged, we could be forced to rebrand our offering, which could result in loss of brand recognition and could require us to devote resources to advertising and marketing our new brand. Further, we cannot assure you that competitors will not infringe our trademarks, or that we will have adequate resources to enforce our trademarks.. Our existing patents and any patents issued in the future may be successfully challenged, invalidated or circumvented by third parties, may give rise to ownership claims or to claims for the payment of additional remuneration of fair price by the persons having participated in the creation of the inventions and may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide us with any meaningful protection or competitive advantage. Further, as we continue to expand our business geographically, it may become desirable for us to protect our intellectual property in an increasing number of jurisdictions, which is expensive and may not be successful, and which we may not pursue.. Once we file a patent application in one country, we have a limited period of time to file it in all other countries in which we want to have patent protection over a certain invention. If we fail to file in those other countries, we will be precluded from having patent protection for that invention in those countries. Without patent protection, others will be free to utilize that invention in those countries. Even if we obtain patent protection, we cannot assure you that competitors will not infringe our patents, or that we will have adequate resources to enforce our patents.. Additionally, in the United States, the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, or AIA, switched U.S. patent rights from the former \"first-to-invent\" system to a \"first inventor-to-file\" system. This may result in inventors and companies having to file patent applications more frequently to preserve rights in their inventions, which may favor larger competitors that have the resources to file more patent applications.. Further, the laws of certain countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States and, therefore, in certain jurisdictions, we may be unable to protect our proprietary technology adequately against unauthorized third-party copying, infringement or use, which could adversely affect our competitive position.. To protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, we may initiate litigation against third parties. Any lawsuits that we initiate could be expensive, take significant time and divert management's attention from other business concerns. Additionally, we may unintentionally provoke third parties to assert claims against us. These claims could invalidate or narrow the scope of our own intellectual property. We may not prevail in any lawsuits that we initiate and the damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may not be commercially valuable. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may be unable to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property. The occurrence of any of these events may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business may suffer if it is alleged or determined that our technology or another aspect of our business infringes the intellectual property rights of others.. The online and mobile advertising industries are characterized by the existence of large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property and proprietary rights. Companies in these industries are often required to defend against litigation claims that are based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. Our technologies may not be able to withstand any third-party claims or rights against their use.. Our success depends, in part, upon non-infringement of intellectual property rights owned by others and being able to resolve claims of intellectual property infringement or misappropriation without major financial expenditures or adverse consequences. From time to time, we may be the subject of claims that our products and underlying technology infringe or violate the intellectual property rights of others, particularly as we expand the scope and complexity of our business.. 39. Regardless of whether claims that we are infringing patents or other intellectual property rights have any merit, these claims are time-consuming and costly to evaluate and defend, and the outcome of any litigation is inherently uncertain. Some of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we do and are able to sustain the costs of complex intellectual property litigation to a greater degree and for longer periods of time than we could. Claims that we are infringing patents or other intellectual property rights could:. • subject us to significant liabilities for monetary damages, which may be tripled in certain instances;. • prohibit us from developing, commercializing or continuing to provide some or all of our offering unless we obtain licenses from, and pay royalties to, the holders of the patents or other intellectual property rights, who may not be willing to offer them on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all;. • subject us to indemnification obligations or obligations to refund fees to, and adversely affect our relationships with, our current or future clients, advertising agencies, media networks and exchanges or publishers;. • cause delays or stoppages in providing our offering;. • cause clients, potential clients, advertising agencies, media networks and exchanges or publishers to avoid working with us;. • divert the attention and resources of management and technical personnel;. • harm our reputation; and. • require technology or branding changes to our offering that would cause us to incur substantial cost and that we may be unable to execute effectively or at all.. In addition, we may be exposed to claims that the content contained in advertising campaigns violates the intellectual property or other rights of third parties. Such claims could be made directly against us or against the advertising agencies we work with, and media networks and exchanges and publishers from whom we purchase advertising inventory. Generally, under our agreements with advertising agencies, media networks and exchanges and publishers, we are required to indemnify the advertising agencies, media networks and exchanges and publishers against any such claim with respect to an advertisement we served. We generally require our clients to indemnify us for any damages from any such claims. There can be no assurance, however, that our clients will have the ability to satisfy their indemnification obligations to us, and pursuing any claims for indemnification may be costly or unsuccessful.. As a result, we may be required to satisfy our indemnification obligations to advertising agencies, media networks and exchanges and publishers or claims against us with our assets. This result could harm our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business involves the use, transmission and storage of confidential information, and the failure to properly safeguard such information could result in significant reputational harm and monetary damages.. Our business involves the storage and transmission of confidential consumer, client and publisher information, including certain purchaser data, as well as financial, employee and operational information. Security breaches could expose us to unauthorized disclosure of this information, litigation and possible liability, as well as damage to our relationships with our clients and publishers. If our security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee or contractor error, malfeasance or otherwise and, as a result, someone obtains unauthorized access to our data or the data of consumers, our clients, publishers, employees or other third parties, our reputation could be damaged, our business may suffer and we could incur significant liability.. 40. Techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target. As a result, we may be unable to anticipate some of these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. In addition, the perpetrators of such activity often are very sophisticated, and can include foreign governments and other parties with significant resources at their disposal. If an actual or perceived security breach occurs, the market perception of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose both clients and revenue. Any significant violations of data privacy or other security breaches could result in the loss of business, litigation and regulatory investigations and penalties that could damage our reputation and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, if a high profile security breach occurs with respect to another provider of commerce marketing solutions, our clients and potential clients may lose trust in the security of providers of commerce marketing in general, and Display Advertising solutions in particular, which could adversely impact our ability to retain existing clients or attract new ones.. Additionally, third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees, consumers, our clients, our publishers or third-party providers into disclosing sensitive information such as user names, passwords or other information in order to gain access to our data, our clients' data or our publishers' data, which could result in significant legal and financial exposure and a loss of confidence in the security of our offering and, ultimately, harm to our future business prospects. A party who is able to compromise the security of our facilities, including our data centers or office facilities, or any device, such as a smartphone or laptop, connected to our systems could misappropriate our proprietary information or the proprietary information of consumers, our clients and/or our publishers, or cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations or those of our clients and/or publishers. We may be required to expend significant resources to protect against such threats or to alleviate problems caused by breaches in security. Finally, computer viruses or malware may harm our systems or cause the loss or alteration of data, and the transmission of computer viruses or malware via the Criteo technology could expose us to litigation and a loss of confidence in the security of our technology. Our errors and omissions insurance may be inadequate or may not be available in the future on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, our policy may not cover any claim against us for loss of data or other indirect or consequential damages and defending a suit, regardless of its merit, could be costly and divert management's attention.. Failures in our systems and infrastructure supporting the Criteo Commerce Marketing Ecosystem and operations could significantly disrupt our operations and cause us to lose clients.. In addition to the optimal performance of the Criteo Engine, our business relies on the continued and uninterrupted performance of our software and hardware infrastructures. We currently place close to four billion advertisements per day and each of those advertisements can be placed in under 100 milliseconds. Sustained or repeated system failures of our software or hardware infrastructures (such as massive and sustained data center outages) or of the software or hardware infrastructures of our third-party providers, which interrupt our ability to deliver advertisements quickly and accurately, our ability to serve and track advertisements, our ability to process consumers' responses to those advertisements or otherwise disrupt our internal operations, could significantly reduce the attractiveness of our offering to clients and publishers, reduce our revenue or otherwise negatively impact our financial situation, impair our reputation and subject us to significant liability.. In addition, while we seek to maintain excess capacity to facilitate the rapid provision of new client deployments and the expansion of existing client deployments, we may need to increase data center hosting capacity, bandwidth, storage, power or other elements of our system architecture and our infrastructure as our client base and/or our traffic continues to grow. Our existing systems may not be able to scale up in a manner satisfactory to our existing or prospective clients, and may not be adequately designed with the necessary reliability and redundancy of certain critical portions of our infrastructure to avoid performance delays or outages that could be harmful to our business.. Our failure to continuously upgrade or increase the reliability and redundancy of our infrastructure to meet the demands of a growing base of global clients and publishers could adversely affect the functioning and performance of our technology and could in turn affect our results of operations.. 41. Finally, our systems are vulnerable to damage from a variety of sources, some of which are outside of our control, including telecommunications failures, natural disasters, terrorism, power outages, a variety of other possible outages affecting data centers, and malicious human acts, including hacking, computer viruses, malware and other security breaches. Techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target. As a result, we may be unable to anticipate some of these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures.. Any steps we take to increase the security, reliability and redundancy of our systems supporting the Criteo technology or operations may be expensive and may not be successful in preventing system failures. If we are unable to prevent system failures, the functioning and performance of the Criteo Solution could suffer, which in turn could interrupt our business and harm our results of operations.. As we expand the market for the Criteo Commerce Marketing Ecosystem, we may become more dependent on advertising agencies as intermediaries, which may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain business.. As we market the Criteo Commerce Marketing Ecosystem, we may increasingly need advertising agencies to work with us in assisting businesses in planning and purchasing for broader advertising objectives. In particular, many of our Criteo Sponsored Products clients, whom we have started working with since our acquisition of HookLogic, work with us through advertising agencies. Historically, however, direct relationships with our clients accounted for 71%, 76% and 84% of our revenue for 2015, 2016 and 2017, respectively, for Criteo Dynamic Retargeting, Criteo Customer Acquisition BETA and Criteo Audience Match BETA. In contrast, 72% of our revenue for Criteo Sponsored Products in 2017 relied on advertising agencies.. If we have an unsuccessful engagement with an advertising agency on a particular advertising campaign, we risk losing the ability to work not only for the client for whom the campaign was run, but also for other clients represented by that agency. Further, if our business evolves such that we are increasingly working through advertising agency intermediaries, we would have less of a direct relationship with our clients. This may drive our clients to attribute the value we provide to the advertising agency rather than to us, further limiting our ability to develop long-term relationships directly with our clients. Additionally, our clients may move from one advertising agency to another, and, accordingly, even if we have a positive relationship with an advertising agency, we may lose the underlying client's business when the client switches to a new agency. The presence of advertising agencies as intermediaries between us and our clients thus creates a challenge to building our own brand awareness and maintaining an affinity with our clients, who are the ultimate sources of our revenue. In the event we were to become more dependent on advertising agencies as intermediaries, this may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain business. In addition, an increased dependency on advertising agencies may harm our results of operations, as a result of the increased agency fees we may be required to pay and/or as a result of longer payment terms from agencies.. We are a growing company in a rapidly evolving industry, which makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and may increase the risk that we will not be successful. Our recent growth rates may not be indicative of our future growth, and we expect our operating expenses to continue to increase in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, we may have difficulty sustaining profitability.. We are a growing company in a rapidly evolving industry. Our ability to forecast our future operating results is subject to a number of uncertainties, including our ability to plan for and model future growth in both our business and the commerce marketing market generally, and the Display Advertising market in particular. We have encountered and will continue to encounter risks and uncertainties frequently experienced by growing companies in rapidly evolving industries, including challenges in forecasting accuracy, determining appropriate investments, achieving market acceptance of our existing and future offerings, managing client implementations and developing new products. If our assumptions regarding these uncertainties, which we use to plan our business, are incorrect or change in reaction to changes in our markets, or if we do not address these risks successfully, our operating and financial results could differ materially from our expectations and our business could suffer.. 42. While our revenue has increased substantially since our inception, we may not be able to sustain revenue growth consistent with our recent history, or at all. You should not consider our revenue growth in recent periods to be indicative of our future performance. In future periods, our revenue could decline or grow more slowly than we expect. We believe the growth of our revenue depends on a number of factors, including our ability to:. • attract new clients, and retain and expand our relationships with existing clients;. • maintain the breadth of our publisher network and attract new publishers, including publishers of web content, mobile applications and video and social games, in order to grow the volume and breadth of advertising inventory available to us;. • adapt our offering to meet evolving needs of businesses, including to address market trends such as (i) the migration of consumers from desktop to mobile and from websites to mobile applications, (ii) the increasing percentage of sales that involve multiple digital devices, (iii) the growing adoption by consumers of \"ad-blocking\" software on web browsers on desktop and/or on mobile devices and use or consumption by consumers of advertising-free services such as Netflix, (iv) changes in the marketplace for and supply of advertising inventory, including the shift toward header bidding; and (v) changes in consumer acceptance of tracking technologies for targeted or behavioral advertising purposes;. • maintain and increase our access to data necessary for the performance of the Criteo Engine;. • continuously improve the algorithms underlying the Criteo Engine; and. • continue to adapt to a changing regulatory landscape governing data protection and privacy matters.. We also anticipate that our operating expenses will continue to increase as we scale our business, grow our headcount and expand our operations. In particular, we plan to continue to focus on maximizing our revenue after traffic acquisition costs on an absolute basis, or the revenue we derive after deducting the costs we incur to purchase advertising inventory, which we call Revenue ex-TAC, as we believe this focus fortifies a number of our competitive strengths, including access to advertising inventory, breadth and depth of data and continuous improvement of the Criteo Engine's performance. As part of this focus, we are continuing to invest in (i) building relationships with direct publishers on both web and mobile application properties, (ii) increasing access to leading advertising exchanges on both web and mobile application properties, and (iii) enhancing the liquidity of our advertising inventory supply, which may include purchasing advertising inventory that may result in lower margin on an individual impression basis and may be less effective in generating clicks and driving sales for our clients. In addition, we are experiencing, and expect to continue to experience, increased competition for advertising inventory purchased on a programmatic basis. Our focus on maximizing the growth of Revenue ex-TAC on an absolute basis may have an adverse impact on our gross margin and we cannot be certain that this strategy will be successful or result in increased liquidity or long-term value for our shareholders.. In addition, as our business expands, we may not be able to maintain our current profitability margin or to achieve our long-term profitability margin target. For example, our midmarket business is currently less profitable than our large client business, and, as a result, if the size of our midmarket business continues to grow as a proportion of our overall business, our profitability may be negatively affected. Similarly, as we transition to a multi-product company, with products available to clients across several marketing channels, such new products may require additional investments in sales, business development and marketing, for example in product sales specialist resources or similar resources to enable sales. As a result of such additional investments, our new products may be less profitable than our existing business and therefore drive down our overall profitability.. 43. Our future success depends on our ability to scale our solution as our business grows.. As our business grows, it may become increasingly difficult to maintain the proper functioning of the Criteo Engine as we continue to collect increasing amounts of data from new geographic markets, new marketing channels, new industry verticals and a growing base of clients.  We currently process 250 terabytes of additional compressed data every day, with total storage capacity of 240,000 terabytes and 530 terabytes of random-access memory. However, future growth could exceed these rates, and there is the risk that our ability to scale our solution to keep pace with the amount of data we process may be impaired by failure of software, hardware (including storage, processing, support and security infrastructure). As a result, our operations might suffer from unanticipated system disruptions or slow processing or reporting which could negatively affect our reputation and ability to attract and retain clients. In addition, the expansion and improvement of our systems and infrastructure may require us to commit substantial financial, operational and technical resources, with no assurance our business will increase. If we fail to respond to technological change or to adequately maintain, expand, upgrade and develop our systems and infrastructure in a timely fashion, our growth prospects and results of operations could be adversely affected. Moreover, even if we are able to expand our computing and other infrastructure to keep pace with our growth, it may be too costly for us to continue to provide services under our current business model and capital expense assumptions and our profitability and results of operations may suffer.. In periods of economic uncertainty, businesses may delay or reduce their spending on marketing, which could materially harm our business.. General worldwide economic conditions have been significantly unstable in recent years, especially in the European Union where we generated 35% of our revenue for 2017. Unstable conditions make it difficult for our clients and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and could cause our clients to reduce or delay their marketing spending with us. Historically, economic downturns have resulted in overall reductions in advertising spending, and businesses may curtail spending both on advertising in general and on a solution such as ours. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown or recovery. Any macroeconomic deterioration in the future, especially further deterioration in the European Union and some emerging markets, such as Brazil and Russia, could impair our revenue and results of operations.. In addition, even if the overall economy improves, we cannot assure you that the market for commerce marketing and Display Advertising will experience growth or that we will experience growth. Furthermore, we generally sell through insertion orders with our clients. These insertion orders generally do not include long-term obligations and are cancellable upon short notice and without penalty. Any reduction in advertising spending could limit our ability to grow our business and negatively affect our results of operations.. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from commerce businesses, especially in the retail, travel and classified industries, and downturn in these industries or any changes in regulations affecting these industries could harm our business.. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from commerce businesses in the retail, travel and classifieds industries. For example, in 2015, 2016 and 2017, 67.0%, 66.8% and 67.8%, respectively, of our combined revenue for Criteo Dynamic Retargeting, Criteo Customer Acquisition BETA and Criteo Audience Match BETA was derived from advertisements placed for retail commerce businesses. While we expect to grow our client base in additional industries, any downturn or increased competitive pressure in any of our core industries, or other industries we may target in the future, may cause our clients to reduce their spending with us, or delay or cancel their marketing campaigns with us.. Furthermore, our business could be negatively impacted by the application of existing laws and regulations or the enactment of new laws by federal, state and foreign governmental or regulatory agencies which would impose taxes on goods and services provided over the internet. To the extent such taxes discourage the use of the internet as a means of commercial marketing or reduce the amount of products and services offered through ecommerce websites, online advertising spending may decline and the use or attractiveness of our offering by our clients or potential clients may be adversely affected.. 44. Our inability to use software licensed from third parties, or our use of open source software under license terms that interfere with our proprietary rights, could disrupt our business.. Our technology platform and internal systems incorporate software licensed from third parties, including some software, known as open source software, which we use without charge. Although we monitor our use of open source software, the terms of many open source licenses to which we are subject have not been interpreted by U.S. or foreign courts, and there is a risk that such licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to provide our technology offering to our clients. In the future, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our solution, which licenses may not be available on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. Alternatively, we may need to re-engineer our offering or discontinue using portions of the functionality provided by our technology. In addition, the terms of open source software licenses may require us to provide software that we develop using such software to others on unfavorable terms, such as by precluding us from charging license fees or by requiring us to disclose our source code. Any such restriction on the use of our own software, or our inability to use open source or third-party software, could result in disruptions to our business or operations, or delays in our development of future offerings or enhancements of our existing platform, which could impair our business.. If we fail to manage our growth and the shift in our client profile effectively, we may be unable to execute our business plan or maintain high levels of client and publisher satisfaction.. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, rapid growth and organizational change, which have created, and may continue to create, challenges to the quality of our service to our clients and publishers, and which have placed, and may continue to place, significant demands on our management and our operational and financial resources.. For example, the number of clients from which we collect revenue has increased from under 350 located in eight countries as of January 1, 2010 to over 18,000 located in 98 countries as of December 31, 2017. While our client count has increased over time, this metric can also fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to the seasonal trends in advertising spending by our clients and the timing and amounts of revenue contributions from new clients.. Therefore, there is not necessarily a direct correlation between a change in the number of clients in a particular period and an increase or decrease in our revenue.. For example, the size of our midmarket business has grown significantly as a proportion of our overall business, and we expect it to continue to do so in the future. As our business shifts toward the midmarket category, there are several additional risks to our business, including risks relating to the financial stability of our clients in the midmarket category and our ability to collect from such clients. In addition, since our midmarket business is comprised of thousands of smaller clients which require significant resources to support, it is currently less profitable than our large client business. We will need to continue automating certain of our processes to service the midmarket category as it continues to grow globally. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully adjust to these shifting dynamics and remain profitable.. Another part of the challenge that we expect to face in the course of our continued expansion is maintaining a high level of service to ensure client and publisher satisfaction. To the extent our client and publisher base grows, we will need to expand our account management, publisher support and other personnel in order to continue to provide personalized account management and services. We will therefore require significant expenses and capital expenditures and will need to allocate valuable management resources to maintain the quality of our client service that has been central to our growth to date, especially as we continue to seek to attract larger clients and publishers. If we fail to manage our anticipated growth in a manner that preserves our attention to our clients, our brand and reputation may suffer, which would in turn impair our ability to attract and retain clients and publishers.. 45. Over the past few years, we have significantly expanded and we expect to continue to expand our international operations in the future. As such, our organizational structure is becoming more complex as we grow our managerial, research and development, marketing and sales, operational and administrative, legal, financial and other functions in order to support our expanding business. Furthermore, our rapid international expansion and the increasing geographic diversity of our workforce has placed, and is expected to continue to place, a significant strain on the corporate culture of rapid innovation and teamwork that has been central to our growth.. If we are unable to successfully manage our geographic expansion, and the associated growth in employee headcount and changes to our organizational structure, our results of operations could suffer.. We experience quarterly fluctuations in our results of operations due to a number of factors which make our future results difficult to predict and could cause our operating results to fall below expectations or our guidance.. Our quarterly results of operations fluctuate due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. As a result, comparing our results of operations on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. You should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. If our revenue or results of operations fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, or below any guidance we may provide to the market, the price of our ADSs could decline substantially.. Our operating results and cash flows from operations may vary from quarter to quarter due to the seasonal nature of our clients' spending. For example, many businesses in the online retail industry devote the largest portion of their marketing spend to the fourth quarter of the calendar year, and many of our commerce retail and travel clients typically conduct fewer marketing campaigns in the second quarter than they do in other quarters. With respect to Criteo Sponsored Products, the concentration of marketing spend in the fourth quarter of the year is particularly pronounced. If, and to the extent that, seasonal fluctuations are significant, our operating cash flows could fluctuate materially from period to period as a result.. Additionally, implementing the Criteo Commerce Marketing Ecosystem for a client can be a long process, which generally requires clients to integrate software code on their digital property. This process can be complex and time-consuming, and can delay the deployment and use of our offering by a client even after the client has signed up to utilize it.. Depending upon the time and resources that a client is willing to devote to the integration of our technology with their digital property and the nature and complexity of a client's network and systems, the actual implementation of our solution may occur long after a client has signed up to use our solution.. As a result, we may incur substantial expenses in one period without any guarantee of revenue generation in the near term, or at all. This possibly lengthy implementation cycle may result in difficulty in predicting our future results of operations.. We also plan to continue to substantially increase our investment in research and development, product development and sales and marketing, as we seek to continue to expand geographically, into new marketing objectives, into new products, into new marketing channels and into new industry verticals to capitalize on what we see as a growing global opportunity for us. Our general and administrative expenses may also increase to support our growing operations and due to the increased costs of operating as a public company. For the foregoing reasons or other reasons we may not anticipate, historical patterns should not be considered as indicative of our future quarterly results of operations.. Other factors that may affect our quarterly results of operations include:. • the nature of our clients' products or services;. • demand for our offering and the size, scope and timing of commerce marketing campaigns;. 46. • the lack of long-term agreements with our clients and publishers;. • client and publisher retention rates;. • market acceptance of our offering and future products and services (i) in current industry verticals and new industry verticals, (ii) in new geographic markets, (iii) in new marketing channels, or (iv) for broader marketing objectives;. • the timing of large expenditures related to expansion into new products, new geographic markets, new industry verticals, acquisitions and/or capital projects;. • the timing of adding support for new digital devices, platforms and operating systems;. • the amount of inventory purchased through direct relationships with publishers versus internet advertising exchanges or networks;. • our clients' budgeting cycles;. • changes in the competitive dynamics of our industry, including consolidation among competitors;. • consumers' response to our clients' advertisements, to online marketing in general and to tracking technologies for targeted or behavioral advertising purposes;. • our ability to control costs, including our operating expenses;. • network outages, errors in our technology or security breaches and any associated expense and collateral effects;. • foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, as some of our foreign sales and costs are denominated in their local currencies;. • failure to successfully manage any acquisitions; and. • general economic and political conditions in our domestic and international markets.. As a result, we may have a limited ability to forecast the amount of future revenue and expense, and our results of operations may from time to time fall below our estimates or the expectations of public market analysts and investors.. Interruptions or delays in services provided by third-party providers that we rely upon could impair the performance of the Criteo technology or operations and harm our business.. We currently lease space from third-party data center hosting facilities for our servers and/or networking equipment located in the United States (California, New York, Virginia), France, The Netherlands, Hong Kong and Japan. All of our data gathering and analytics are conducted on, and the advertisements we deliver are processed through, our servers and network equipment located in these facilities.. We also rely on bandwidth providers and internet service providers to deliver advertisements. Any damage to, or failure of, the systems or facilities of our third-party providers could adversely impact our ability to deliver technology offering to our clients. If, for any reason, our arrangement with one or more data centers is terminated, we could experience additional expense in arranging for new facilities and support.. 47. The occurrence of a natural disaster, an act of terrorism, vandalism or sabotage, a decision to close any data center or the facilities of any other third-party provider without adequate notice, or other unanticipated problems at these facilities could result in lengthy interruptions in the availability of our technology or operations. Our testing of our services in actual disasters or similar events has been limited. If any such event were to occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.. The functional currency of the Company is the euro, while our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar. Since we incur large portions of our expenses and derive significant revenues in currencies other than the euro, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange risk to the extent that our results of operations and cash flows are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Foreign currency exchange risk exposure also arises from intra-company transactions and financing with subsidiaries that have a functional currency different than the euro.. The statements of financial position of consolidated entities having a functional currency different from the U.S. dollar are translated into U.S. dollars at the closing exchange rate (spot exchange rate at the statement of financial position date) and the statement of income, statement of comprehensive income and statement of cash flow of such consolidated entities are translated at the average period to date exchange rate. The resulting translation adjustments are included in equity under the caption \"Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income\" in the consolidated statement of changes in equity.. While we are engaging in hedging transactions to minimize the impact of uncertainty in future exchange rates on intra-company transactions and financing, we may not hedge all of our foreign currency exchange rate risk. In addition, hedging transactions carry their own risks and costs, including the possibility of a default by the counterparty to the hedge transaction. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in managing our foreign currency exchange rate risk. We cannot predict the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, and foreign currency fluctuations in the future may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our failure to maintain certain tax benefits applicable to French technology companies may adversely affect our results of operations.. As a French technology company, we have benefited from certain tax advantages, including, for example, a reduced tax rate in France on technology royalty income received from subsidiaries and the French research tax credit (crédit d'impôt recherche), or CIR. The CIR is a French tax credit aimed at stimulating research and development. The CIR can be offset against French corporate income tax due and the portion in excess (if any) may be refunded at the end of a three fiscal-year period.. The CIR is calculated based on our claimed amount of eligible research and development expenditures in France and represented $3.4 million, $4.9 million and $6.3 million for 2015, 2016 and 2017, respectively and is classified as a reduction of our research and development expenses.. The French tax authority, with the assistance of the Research and Technology Ministry, may audit each research and development program in respect of which a CIR benefit has been claimed and assess whether such program qualifies, in their view, for the CIR benefit. If the French tax authority determines that our research and development programs do not meet the requirements for the CIR benefit, or challenges our calculations with respect to the CIR benefit, we could be liable for additional corporate tax, and penalties and interest related thereto, which could have a significant impact on our results of operations and future cash flows.. Furthermore, if the French Parliament decides to modify the regime of the reduced tax rate on technology royalty income or to reduce the scope or the rate of the CIR benefit, which it could decide to do at any time, our results of operations could be adversely affected.. 48. We are a multinational organization faced with increasingly complex tax issues in many jurisdictions, and we could be obligated to pay additional taxes in various jurisdictions as a result of new taxes or laws, or revised interpretations thereof, which may negatively affect our business.. As a multinational organization operating in multiple jurisdictions we are subject to taxation in several jurisdictions around the world with increasingly complex tax laws, the application of which can be uncertain. The amount of taxes we pay in these jurisdictions could increase substantially as a result of changes in the applicable tax principles, including increased tax rates, new tax laws or revised interpretations of existing tax laws and precedents, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and results of operations.. For example, many of the jurisdictions in which we conduct business have detailed transfer pricing rules which require that all transactions with non-resident related parties be priced using arm's length pricing principles. Contemporaneous documentation must exist to support this pricing. The tax authorities in these jurisdictions could challenge whether our related party transfer pricing policies are at arm's length and, as a consequence, challenge our tax treatment of corresponding expenses and income. International transfer pricing is an area of taxation that depends heavily on the underlying facts and circumstances and generally involves a significant degree of judgment. If any of these tax authorities were successful in challenging our transfer pricing policies, we may be liable for additional corporate income tax, and penalties, fines and interest related thereto, which may have a significant impact on our effective tax rate, results of operations and future cash flows.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Shares and the ADSs and the Trading of the ADSs. The market price for the ADSs may be volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance.. The trading price of the ADSs has fluctuated, and is likely to continue to fluctuate, substantially. The trading price of the ADSs depends on a number of factors, including those described in this \"Risk Factors\" section, many of which are beyond our control and may not be related to our operating performance. Since the ADSs were sold at our initial public offering in October 2013 at a price of $31.00 per share, the price per ADS has ranged as low as $22.00 and as high as $60.95 through December 31, 2017. The market price of the ADSs may fluctuate significantly in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including:. • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our revenue and other results of operations;. • the guidance we may provide to the public, any changes in this guidance or our failure to meet this guidance;. • failure of securities analysts to initiate or maintain coverage of us and our securities, changes in financial estimates by any securities analysts who follow our company, or our failure to meet these estimates or the expectations of investors;. • announcements by us, our competitors or large influential technology companies of significant technical innovations or changes, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments;. • changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of advertising technology or other technology companies, or those in our industry in particular;. • investor sentiment with respect to our competitors, our business partners or our industry in general;. • investor perception of risks in our industry, including but not limited to the competitive concentration of supply inventory or risks of fraudulent or malicious activity;. • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market, including as a result of trends in the economy as a whole;. 49. • additional ADSs being sold into the market by us or the Company's insiders;. • media coverage of our business and financial performance;. • developments in anticipated or new legislation or new or pending lawsuits or regulatory actions;. • other events or factors, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to these events; and. • any other risks identified in this Form 10-K.. In addition, the stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many technology companies. Stock prices of many technology companies have fluctuated in a manner unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. In the past, shareholders have instituted securities class action litigation following periods of market volatility. If we were to become involved in securities litigation, it could subject us to substantial costs, divert resources and the attention of management from our business and adversely affect our business.. If securities or industry analysts cease publishing research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business or our industry, the price and trading volume of the ADSs could decline.. The trading market for the ADSs depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades the ADSs or publishes incorrect or unfavorable research about our business, the price of the ADSs would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for the ADSs could decrease, which could cause the price of the ADSs or trading volume to decline.. Our business could be negatively impacted by the activities of predatory hedge funds or short sellers.. There is the risk that we may be subject, from time to time, to challenges arising from the activities of predatory hedge funds, short sellers or similar individuals who do not have the best interests of shareholders or the Company in mind. Reports or other publications prepared and disseminated by such hedge funds or short sellers may cause significant fluctuations in our stock price based on temporary or speculative market perceptions or other factors that do not necessarily reflect the underlying fundamentals and prospects of our business, and could cause the price of our ADSs or trading volume to decline. Furthermore, responding to such activities could be costly and time-consuming and may be intended to, and may in fact, divert the attention of our board of directors and senior management from the pursuit of our business strategies and adversely affect our business.. We may need additional capital in the future to meet our financial obligations and to pursue our business objectives. Additional capital may not be available on favorable terms, or at all, which could compromise our ability to meet our financial obligations and grow our business.. While we anticipate that our existing cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments will be sufficient to fund our operations for at least the next 12 months, we may need to raise additional capital to fund operations in the future or to finance acquisitions. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to fund the expansion of our research and development and sales and marketing efforts, increase working capital, take advantage of acquisition or other opportunities, or adequately respond to competitive pressures which could seriously harm our business and results of operations.. We currently have a senior unsecured revolving credit facility under which we may borrow up to \200350 million (or its equivalent in U.S. dollars or, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, other optional currencies) for general corporate purposes, including the funding of business combinations (the \"General RCF\").  As of December 31, 2017, nothing had been drawn on this facility.. 50. However, to the extent we draw on the General RCF or incur new debt, the debt holders have rights senior to shareholders to make claims on our assets, and the terms of such debt could restrict our operations, including our ability to pay dividends on our ordinary shares. In addition, pursuant to the terms of our credit facilities, we may be restricted in the use of such facilities to fund capital expenditures and information technology-related expenses may be restricted. If adequate additional funds are not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate material parts of our business strategy, including potential additional acquisitions or development of new technologies.. Furthermore, if we issue additional equity securities, shareholders will experience dilution, and the new equity securities could have rights senior to those of our ordinary shares.. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. As a result, our shareholders bear the risk of our future securities offerings reducing the market price of the ADSs and diluting their interest.. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our securities and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of the ADSs. In addition, French law may limit the amount of dividends we are able to distribute.. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our ordinary shares and do not currently intend to do so for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth, both organic and inorganic. In addition, we could , from time to time, decide to use a portion of our available liquidity to repurchase our Company's shares.. Further, the credit agreement for the General RCF (as defined herein) contains restrictions on our ability to pay dividends.. In addition, under French law, payment of dividends may subject us to additional taxes, and the determination of whether we have been sufficiently profitable to pay dividends is made on the basis of our statutory financial statements prepared and presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in France. Therefore, we may be more restricted in our ability to declare dividends than companies not based in France.. Please see the section entitled \"Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities-Taxation-French Tax Consequences\" in Item 5 of Part II in this Form 10-K for further details on the limitations on our ability to declare and pay dividends and the taxes that may become payable by us if we elect to pay a dividend.. Finally, exchange rate fluctuations may affect the amount of euros that we are able to distribute, and the amount in U.S. dollars that our shareholders receive upon the payment of cash dividends or other distributions we declare and pay in euros, if any. These factors could harm the value of the ADSs, and, in turn, the U.S. dollar proceeds that holders receive from the sale of the ADSs.. Because you are not likely to receive any dividends on your ADSs for the foreseeable future, the success of an investment in ADSs will depend upon any future appreciation in their value. Consequently, investors may need to sell all or part of their holdings of ADSs after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment.. We currently have not publicly announced or adopted a share buyback plan or program. If we adopt such a program in the future, the actual amount and timing of future share repurchases, if any, will depend on market and economic conditions, applicable SEC rules, federal and state regulatory restrictions, cash availability and various other factors. If we were to adopt a share buyback program, there would be no guarantee that it would enhance shareholder value. Any share repurchases could increase volatility in the trading price of our ADSs and could diminish our available cash. Any share buyback program we adopt may also be suspended or terminated at any time, which may result in a decrease in the trading price of our ADSs.. 51. Our credit agreement contains, and future debt agreements may contain, restrictions that may limit our flexibility in operating our business.. The credit agreement for the General RCF contains, and documents governing our future indebtedness may contain, numerous covenants that limit the discretion of management with respect to certain business matters. These covenants place restrictions on, among other things, our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to incur or guarantee additional indebtedness, pay dividends and make other distributions and restricted payments, make certain acquisitions and other investments, sell certain assets or engage in mergers, acquisitions and other business combinations, and create liens. Our credit agreement also requires, and documents governing our future indebtedness may require, us or our subsidiaries to meet certain financial ratios and tests in order to incur certain additional debt, make certain loans, acquisitions or other investments, or pay dividends or make other distributions or restricted payments. Our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to comply with these and other provisions of our debt agreements are dependent on our future performance, which will be subject to many factors, some of which are beyond our control. The breach of any of these covenants or noncompliance with any of these financial ratios and tests could result in an event of default under the applicable debt agreement, which, if not cured or waived, could result in acceleration of the related debt and the acceleration of debt under other instruments evidencing indebtedness that may contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions.. Our by-laws and French corporate law contain provisions that may delay or discourage a sale of the Company.. Provisions contained in our by-laws and the corporate laws of France, the country in which we are incorporated, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our shareholders. In addition, provisions of our by-laws impose various procedural and other requirements, which could make it more difficult for shareholders to effect certain corporate actions. These provisions include the following:. • our ordinary shares are in registered form only and we must be notified of any transfer of our shares in order for such transfer to be validly registered;. • under French law, a non-resident of France as well as any French entity controlled by non-French residents may have to file a declaration for statistical purposes with the Bank of France (Banque de France) following the date of certain direct or indirect investments in us (see the section entitled \"Exchange Controls & Ownership by Non-French Residents\" in Item 5 to Part II in this Form 10-K);. • provisions of French law allowing the owner of 95% of the share capital or voting rights of a public company to force out the minority shareholders following a tender offer made to all shareholders are only applicable to companies listed on a stock exchange of the European Union and will therefore not be applicable to us;. • a merger of our company into a company incorporated outside of the European Union would require the unanimous approval of our shareholders;. • a merger (i.e., in a French law context, a stock-for-stock exchange following which our company would be dissolved into the acquiring entity and our shareholders would become shareholders of the acquiring entity) of our company into a company incorporated in the European Union would require the approval of our board of directors as well as a two-thirds majority of the votes held by the shareholders present, represented by proxy or voting by mail at the relevant shareholders' meeting;. • under French law, a cash merger is treated as a share purchase and would require the consent of each participating shareholder;. • our shareholders have granted and may grant in the future our board of directors broad authorizations to increase our share capital or to issue additional ordinary shares or other securities (for example, warrants) to our shareholders, the public or qualified investors, including as a possible defense following the launching of a tender offer for our shares;. 52. • our shareholders have preferential subscription rights proportionally to their shareholding in our company on the issuance by us of any additional securities for cash or a set-off of cash debts, which rights may only be waived by the extraordinary general meeting (by a two-thirds majority vote) of our shareholders or on an individual basis by each shareholder;. • our board of directors has the right to appoint directors to fill a vacancy created by the resignation or death of a director, subject to the approval by the shareholders of such appointment at the next shareholders' meeting, which prevents shareholders from having the sole right to fill vacancies on our board of directors;. • our board of directors can only be convened by its chairman or, when no board meeting has been held for more than two consecutive months, by directors representing at least one third of the total number of directors;. • our board of directors meetings can only be regularly held if at least half of the directors attend either physically or by way of videoconference or teleconference enabling the directors' identification and ensuring their effective participation in the board's decisions;. • approval of at least a majority of the votes held by shareholders present, represented by a proxy, or voting by mail at the relevant ordinary shareholders' general meeting, is required to remove directors with or without cause;. • advance notice is required for nominations to the board of directors or for proposing matters to be acted upon at a shareholders' meeting, except that a vote to remove and replace a director can be proposed at any shareholders' meeting without notice; and. • pursuant to French law, the sections of the by-laws relating to the number of directors and election and removal of a director from office may only be modified by a resolution adopted by a two-thirds majority of the votes of our shareholders present, represented by a proxy or voting by mail at the shareholders' meeting.. You may not be able to exercise your right to vote the ordinary shares underlying your ADSs.. Holders of ADSs may exercise voting rights with respect to the ordinary shares represented by the ADSs only in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. The deposit agreement provides that, upon receipt of notice of any meeting of holders of our ordinary shares, the depositary will fix a record date for the determination of ADS holders who shall be entitled to give instructions for the exercise of voting rights. Upon timely receipt of notice from us, if we so request, the depositary shall distribute to the holders as of the record date (1) the notice of the meeting or solicitation of consent or proxy sent by us and (2) a statement as to the manner in which instructions may be given by the holders.. You may instruct the depositary of your ADSs to vote the ordinary shares underlying your ADSs. Otherwise, you will not be able to exercise your right to vote, unless you withdraw the ordinary shares underlying the ADSs you hold. However, you may not know about the meeting far enough in advance to withdraw those ordinary shares. If we ask for your instructions, the depositary, upon timely notice from us, will notify you of the upcoming vote and arrange to deliver our voting materials to you. We cannot guarantee you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your ordinary shares or to withdraw your ordinary shares so that you can vote them yourself.. If the depositary does not receive timely voting instructions from you, it may give a proxy to a person designated by us to vote the ordinary shares underlying your ADSs. In addition, the depositary and its agents are not responsible for failing to carry out voting instructions or for the manner of carrying out voting instructions. This means that you may not be able to exercise your right to vote, and there may be nothing you can do if the ordinary shares underlying your ADSs are not voted as you requested.. 53. Your right as a holder of ADSs to participate in any future preferential subscription rights or to elect to receive dividends in shares may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings.. According to French law, if we issue additional securities for cash, current shareholders will have preferential subscription rights for these securities proportionally to their shareholding in our company unless they waive those rights at an extraordinary meeting of our shareholders (by a two-thirds majority vote) or individually by each shareholder.. However, our ADS holders in the United States will not be entitled to exercise or sell such rights unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available.. In addition, the deposit agreement provides that the depositary will not make rights available to you unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities are either registered under the Securities Act or exempted from registration under the Securities Act.. Further, if we offer holders of our ordinary shares the option to receive dividends in either cash or shares, under the deposit agreement the depositary may require satisfactory assurances from us that extending the offer to holders of ADSs does not require registration of any securities under the Securities Act before making the option available to holders of ADSs. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, ADS holders may be unable to participate in our rights offerings or to elect to receive dividends in shares and may experience dilution in their holdings. In addition, if the depositary is unable to sell rights that are not exercised or not distributed or if the sale is not lawful or reasonably practicable, it will allow the rights to lapse, in which case you will receive no value for these rights.. You may be subject to limitations on the transfer of your ADSs and the withdrawal of the underlying ordinary shares.. Your ADSs, which may be evidenced by ADRs, are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. The depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of your ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary think it is advisable to do so because of any requirement of law, government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason subject to your right to cancel your ADSs and withdraw the underlying ordinary shares.. Temporary delays in the cancellation of your ADSs and your withdrawal of the underlying ordinary shares may arise because the depositary has closed its transfer books or we have closed our transfer books, the transfer of ordinary shares is blocked to permit voting at a shareholders' meeting or we are paying a dividend on our ordinary shares.. In addition, you may not be able to cancel your ADSs and withdraw the underlying ordinary shares when you owe money for fees, taxes and similar charges and when it is necessary to prohibit withdrawals in order to comply with any laws or governmental regulations that apply to ADSs or to the withdrawal of ordinary shares or other deposited securities.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and investor confidence and the market price of the ADSs may, therefore, be adversely impacted.. As a public company, we are required to maintain internal control over financial reporting and to report any material weaknesses in such internal control.. 54. In addition, we are required to submit a report by management to the Audit Committee and external auditors on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and our independent registered public accounting firm is required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. If we identify material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, if we are unable to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in a timely manner or assert that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion as to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting when required, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and the market price of the ADSs may be adversely impacted, and we could become subject to investigations by the stock exchange on which our securities are listed, the SEC, or other regulatory authorities, which could require additional financial and management resources.. U.S. investors may have difficulty enforcing civil liabilities against our company and directors and senior management.. Certain of our directors and members of senior management, and those of certain of our subsidiaries, are non-residents of the United States, and all or a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of such persons are located outside the United States.. As a result, it may not be possible to serve process on such persons or us in the United States or to enforce judgments obtained in U.S. courts against them or us based on civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States. Additionally, it may be difficult to assert U.S. securities law claims in actions originally instituted outside of the United States.. Foreign courts may refuse to hear a U.S. securities law claim because foreign courts may not be the most appropriate forums in which to bring such a claim. Even if a foreign court agrees to hear a U.S. securities law claim, it may determine that the law of the jurisdiction in which the foreign court resides, and not U.S. law, is applicable to the claim. Further, if U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proved as a fact, which can be a time-consuming and costly process, and certain matters of procedure would still be governed by the law of the jurisdiction in which the foreign court resides. In particular, there is some doubt as to whether French courts would recognize and enforce certain civil liabilities under U.S. securities laws in original actions or judgments of U.S. courts based upon these civil liability provisions. In addition, awards of punitive damages in actions brought in the United States or elsewhere may be unenforceable in France.. An award for monetary damages under the U.S. securities laws would be considered punitive if it does not seek to compensate the claimant for loss or damage suffered but is intended to punish the defendant. The enforceability of any judgment in France will depend on the particular facts of the case as well as the laws and treaties in effect at the time. The United States and France do not currently have a treaty providing for recognition and enforcement of judgments (other than arbitration awards) in civil and commercial matters.. The rights of shareholders in companies subject to French corporate law differ in material respects from the rights of shareholders of corporations incorporated in the United States.. We are a French company with limited liability. Our corporate affairs are governed by our by-laws and by the laws governing companies incorporated in France. The rights of shareholders and the responsibilities of members of our board of directors are in many ways different from the rights and obligations of shareholders in companies governed by the laws of U.S. jurisdictions.. For example, in the performance of its duties, our board of directors is required by French law to consider the interests of our company, its shareholders, its employees and other stakeholders, rather than solely our shareholders and/or creditors. It is possible that some of these parties will have interests that are different from, or in addition to, your interests as a shareholder."
