[1] "Item 1A.     Risk Factors. You should carefully consider all of the risks described below, as well as the other information contained in this document, when evaluating your investment in our securities.. Risks Relating to Our Business. Our business depends on the demand for our communications infrastructure, driven primarily by demand for data, and we may be adversely affected by any slowdown in such demand.  Additionally, a reduction in the amount or change in the mix of network investment by our customers may materially and adversely affect our business (including reducing demand for tenant additions or network services).. Customer demand for our communications infrastructure depends on the demand for data.  The willingness of our customers to utilize our communications infrastructure, or renew or extend existing contracts on our communications infrastructure, is affected by numerous factors, including:. • consumers' and organizations' demand for data;. • availability or capacity of our communications infrastructure or associated land interests;. • location of our communications infrastructure;. • financial condition of our customers, including their profitability and availability or cost of capital;. • willingness of our customers to maintain or increase their network investment or changes in their capital allocation strategy;. • need for integrated networks and organizations;. • availability and cost of spectrum for commercial use;. • increased use of network sharing, roaming, joint development, or resale agreements by our customers;. • mergers or consolidations by and among our customers;. • changes in, or success of, our customers' business models;. • governmental regulations and initiatives, including local or state restrictions on the proliferation of communications infrastructure;. • cost of constructing communications infrastructure;. • our market competition;. • technological changes, including those (1) affecting the number or type of communications infrastructure needed to provide data to a given geographic area or which may otherwise serve as substitute or alternative to our communications infrastructure or (2) resulting in the obsolescence or decommissioning of certain existing wireless networks; and. • our ability to efficiently satisfy our customers' service requirements.. A slowdown in demand for data or our communications infrastructure may negatively impact our growth or otherwise have a material adverse effect on us.  If our customers or potential customers are unable to raise adequate capital to fund their business plans, as a result of disruptions in the financial and credit markets or otherwise, they may reduce their spending, which could adversely affect our anticipated growth or the demand for our communications infrastructure or network services.. The amount, timing, and mix of our customers' network investment is variable and can be significantly impacted by the various matters described in these risk factors.  Changes in customer network investment typically impact the demand for our communications infrastructure.  As a result, changes in customer plans such as delays in the implementation of new systems, new and emerging technologies (including small cells and fiber solutions), or plans to expand coverage or capacity may reduce demand for our communications infrastructure.  Furthermore, the industries in which our customers operate (particularly those in the wireless industry) could experience a slowdown or slowing growth rates as a result of numerous factors, including a reduction in consumer demand (including demand for wireless connectivity) or general economic conditions.  There can be no assurances that weakness or uncertainty in the economic environment will not adversely impact our customers or their industries, which may materially and adversely affect our business, including by reducing demand for our communications infrastructure or network services.  In addition, a slowdown may increase competition for site rental customers or network services.  Such an industry slowdown or a reduction in customer network investment may materially and adversely affect our business.. 9. A substantial portion of our revenues is derived from a small number of customers, and the loss, consolidation or financial instability of any of such customers may materially decrease revenues or reduce demand for our communications infrastructure and network services.. Our four largest customers are AT&T, T-Mobile, Verizon Wireless and Sprint.  Collectively, these four customers accounted for 83% of our 2017 site rental revenues.  The loss of any one of our large customers as a result of consolidation, merger, bankruptcy, insolvency, network sharing, roaming, joint development, resale agreements by our customers or otherwise may result in (1) a material decrease in our revenues, (2) uncollectible account receivables, (3) an impairment of our deferred site rental receivables, communications infrastructure assets, intangible assets, or (4) other adverse effects to our business.  We cannot guarantee that contracts with our major customers will not be terminated or that these customers will renew their contracts with us.  In addition to our four largest customers, we also derive a portion of our revenues and anticipated future growth from (1) fiber solutions customers and (2) new entrants offering or contemplating offering wireless services.  Such customers (including those dependent on government funding) may be smaller or have less financial resources than our four largest customers, may have business models which may not be successful, or may require additional capital. See also \"Item 1. Business - The Company\" and note 16 to our consolidated financial statements.. Consolidation among our customers will likely result in duplicate or overlapping parts of networks, for example, where they are co-residents on a tower, which may result in the termination or non-renewal of tenant contracts and negatively impact revenues from our communications infrastructure.   Due to the long-term nature of tenant contracts, we expect that any termination of tenant contracts as a result of this potential consolidation would be spread over multiple years.  Such consolidation may result in a reduction in such customers' future network investment in the aggregate because their expansion plans may be similar.  Customer consolidation could decrease the demand for our communications infrastructure, which in turn may result in a reduction in our revenues or cash flows.. See note 15 to our consolidated financial statements.. The expansion or development of our business, including through acquisitions, increased product offerings or other strategic growth opportunities, may cause disruptions in our business, which may have an adverse effect on our business, operations or financial results.  Additionally, we may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the Lightower Acquisition, or those benefits may take longer to realize than expected.. We seek to expand and develop our business, including through acquisitions, increased product offerings (such as small cells and fiber solutions), or other strategic growth opportunities.  In the ordinary course of our business, we review, analyze and evaluate various potential transactions or other activities in which we may engage.  Such transactions or activities could cause disruptions in, increase risk or otherwise negatively impact our business.  Among other things, such transactions and activities may:. • disrupt our business relationships with our customers, depending on the nature of or counterparty to such transactions and activities;. • divert the time or attention of management away from other business operations, including as a result of post-transaction  integration activities;. • fail to achieve revenue or margin targets, operational synergies or other benefits contemplated;. • increase operational risk or volatility in our business;. • not result in the benefits management had expected to realize from such expansion and development activities, or those benefits may take longer to realize than expected;. • impact our cost structure and result in the need to hire additional employees;. • increase demands on current employees or result in current or prospective employees experiencing uncertainty about their future roles with us, which might adversely affect our ability to retain or attract key employees; or. • result in the need for additional TRSs or contributions of certain assets to TRSs, which are subject to federal and state corporate income taxes.. With respect to our recent Lightower Acquisition (see note 4 to our consolidated financial statements), we may encounter significant difficulties in integrating Lightower's business.  Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the Lightower Acquisition will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to integrate the Lightower business into ours. The integration of an independent business into our business is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. As a result, we will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrate Lightower's business practices and operations with ours, including a larger fiber solutions business than we currently manage. The integration process may disrupt the businesses and, if implemented ineffectively, would reduce the realization of the full expected benefits. The failure to meet the challenges involved in integrating Lightower's business and to realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction could cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, the activities of our Company and could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, we could encounter additional. 10. transaction-related costs or other factors, which could delay our realization of the expected benefits of the Lightower Acquisition and negatively impact our business.. Our Fiber segment has expanded rapidly, and the Fiber business model contains certain differences from our Towers business model, resulting in different operational risks.  If we do not successfully operate our Fiber business model or identify or manage the related operational risks, such operations may produce results that are less than anticipated.. In recent years, we have allocated a significant amount of capital to our Fiber business, which is a much less mature business for us than our Towers business (which we have operated since 1994).  Our Fiber segment represented 21% and 12% of our site rental revenues for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.  The business model for our Fiber operations contains certain differences from our business model for our Towers operations, including certain differences relating to customer base, competition, contract terms (including requirements for service level agreements regarding network performance and maintenance), upfront capital requirements, landlord demographics, ownership of certain network assets, operational oversight requirements, government regulations, growth rates and applicable laws.. While our Fiber operations have certain risks that are similar to our Towers operations, they also have certain operational risks that are different from our Towers business, including:. • the use of public rights-of-way and franchise agreements;. • use of poles and conduits owned solely by, or jointly with, third parties;. • risks relating to overbuilding;. • risks relating to the specific markets that we choose to operate in or plan to operate in;. • construction management risks;. • risks relating to wireless carriers building their own small cell networks, or customers utilizing their own or alternative fiber assets;. • risk of failing to optimize the use of our finite supply of fiber strands;. • damage to our assets and the need to maintain, repair, upgrade and periodically replace our assets;. • the risk of failing to properly maintain or operate highly specialized hardware and software;. • network data security risks;. • the risk of new technologies that could enable customers to realize the same benefits with less utilization of our fiber;. • potential damage to our overall reputation as a communications infrastructure provider; and. • the use of competitive local exchange carrier status, which we refer to as \"CLEC\" status.. In addition, the rate at which customers adopt or prioritize small cells and fiber solutions may be lower or slower than we anticipate or may cease to exist altogether.  Our Fiber operations will also expose us to different safety or liability risks or hazards than our Towers business as a result of numerous factors, including the location or nature of the assets involved.  There may be risks and challenges associated with small cells and fiber solutions being comparatively new and emerging technologies and continuing to evolve, and there may be other risks related to small cells and fiber solutions of which we are not yet aware.. Failure to timely and efficiently execute on our construction projects could adversely affect our business.. Our construction projects, some of which are long-term and complex in nature, can be challenging to execute.  The quality of our performance on such construction projects depends in large part upon our ability to manage (1) the associated customer relationship and (2) the project itself by timely deploying and properly managing appropriate internal and external project resources.  In connection with our construction projects, we generally bear the risk of cost over-runs, labor availability and productivity, and contractor pricing and performance.  Additionally, contracts with our customers for these projects typically specify delivery dates, performance criteria and penalties for our failure to perform.  Our failure to manage such customer relationships, project resources, and project milestones in a timely and efficient manner could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our substantial level of indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to react to changes in our business, and the terms of our debt instruments and our 6.875% Convertible Preferred Stock limit our ability to take a number of actions that our management might otherwise believe to be in our best interests. In addition, if we fail to comply with our covenants, our debt could be accelerated.. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness (approximately $16.2 billion as of February 21, 2018).  See \"Item 7. MD&A - Liquidity and Capital Resources\" for a tabular presentation of our contractual debt maturities.  As a result of our substantial indebtedness:. • we may be more vulnerable to general adverse economic or industry conditions;. • we may find it more difficult to obtain additional financing to fund discretionary investments or other general corporate requirements or to refinance our existing indebtedness;. 11. • we are or will be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to the payment of principal or interest on our debt, thereby reducing the available cash flows to fund other projects, including the discretionary investments discussed in \"Item 1. Business\" and \"Item 7. MD&A - Liquidity and Capital Resources\";. • we may have limited flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or in the industry;. • we may have a competitive disadvantage relative to other companies in our industry with less debt;. • we may be adversely impacted by changes in interest rates;. • we may be adversely impacted by changes to credit ratings related to our debt instruments;. • we may be required to issue equity securities or securities convertible into equity or sell some of our assets, possibly on unfavorable terms, in order to meet payment obligations;. • we may be limited in our ability to take advantage of strategic business opportunities, including communications infrastructure development or mergers and acquisitions; and. • we could fail to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT as a result of limitations on our ability to declare and pay dividends to stockholders as a result of restrictive covenants in our debt instruments or the terms of our 6.875% Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock, Series A, par value $0.01 per share (\"6.875% Convertible Preferred Stock\").. Currently we have debt instruments in place that limit in certain circumstances our ability to incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends, create liens, sell assets, or engage in certain mergers and acquisitions, among other things.  In addition, the credit agreement governing our senior unsecured credit facility (\"2016 Credit Facility\") contains financial maintenance covenants.  Our ability to comply with these covenants or to satisfy our debt obligations will depend on our future operating performance.  If we violate the restrictions in our debt instruments or fail to comply with our financial maintenance covenants, we will be in default under those instruments, which in some cases would cause the maturity of a substantial portion of our long-term indebtedness to be accelerated.  Furthermore, if the limits on our ability to pay dividends prevent us from satisfying our REIT distribution requirements, we could fail to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT.  If these limits do not jeopardize our qualification for taxation as a REIT but nevertheless prevent us from distributing 100% of our REIT taxable income, we will be subject to federal and state corporate income taxes, and potentially a nondeductible excise tax, on our undistributed taxable income.  If our operating subsidiaries were to default on their debt, the trustee could seek to foreclose the collateral securing such debt, in which case we could lose the communications infrastructure and the revenues associated with such communications infrastructure.  See \"Item 7. MD&A - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Debt Covenants\" for a further discussion of our debt covenants.. CCIC is a holding company that conducts all of its operations through its subsidiaries.  Accordingly, CCIC's sources of cash to pay interest or principal on its outstanding indebtedness are distributions relating to its respective ownership interests in its subsidiaries from the net earnings and cash flows generated by such subsidiaries or from proceeds of debt or equity offerings.  Earnings and cash flows generated by CCIC's subsidiaries are first applied by such subsidiaries to conduct their operations, including servicing their respective debt obligations, after which any excess cash flows generally may be paid to such holding company, in the absence of any special conditions such as a continuing event of default.  However, CCIC's subsidiaries are legally distinct from the holding company and, unless they guarantee such debt, have no obligation to pay amounts due on their debt or to make funds available to us for such payment.. If we fail to pay scheduled dividends on our 6.875% Convertible Preferred Stock, in cash, common stock, or any combination of cash and common stock, we will be prohibited from paying dividends on our common stock, which may jeopardize our status as a REIT.. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness.  In the event we do not repay or refinance such indebtedness, we could face substantial liquidity issues and might be required to issue equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities, or sell some of our assets to meet our debt payment obligations.. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which, upon final maturity, we will need to refinance or repay.  See \"Item 7. MD&A - Liquidity and Capital Resources\" for a tabular presentation of our contractual debt maturities.  There can be no assurances we will be able to refinance our indebtedness (1) on commercially reasonable terms, (2) on terms, including with respect to interest rates, as favorable as our current debt, or (3) at all.. Economic conditions and the credit markets have historically experienced, and may continue to experience, periods of volatility, uncertainty, or weakness that could impact the availability or cost of debt financing, including any refinancing of the obligations described above or on our ability to draw the full amount of our $3.5 billion senior unsecured revolving credit facility under our 2016 Credit Facility (\"2016 Revolver\"), that, as of February 21, 2018, has $3.0 billion of undrawn availability.. If we are unable to repay or refinance our debt, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to generate enough cash flows from operations or that we will be able to obtain enough capital to service our debt, fund our planned capital expenditures or pay future dividends.  In such an event, we could face substantial liquidity issues and might be required to issue equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities, or sell some of our assets to meet our debt payment obligations.  Failure to repay or refinance. 12. indebtedness when required could result in a default under such indebtedness.  If we incur additional indebtedness, any such indebtedness could exacerbate the risks described above.. Sales or issuances of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or securities convertible into shares of our common stock may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. Future sales or issuances of common stock or other equity related securities may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, including any shares of our common stock issued to finance capital expenditures, finance acquisitions or repay debt.  Our business strategy contemplates access to external financing to fund certain discretionary investments, which may include issuances of common stock or other equity related securities.  We maintain an \"at-the-market\" stock offering program (\"ATM Program\") through which we may, from time to time, issue and sell shares of our common stock having an aggregate gross sales price of up to $500.0 million to or through sales agents.  As of February 21, 2018, we had approximately $150 million of gross sales of common stock remaining under our ATM Program.  From time to time, we may refresh or implement a new \"at-the-market\" stock offering program.  See note 12 to our consolidated financial statements.  As of February 21, 2018, we had approximately 407 million shares of common stock outstanding.. We have reserved 11.2 million and 17.2 million shares of common stock, respectively, for issuance in connection with awards granted under our various stock compensation plans and our 6.875% Convertible Preferred Stock, which will automatically convert into common stock on August 1, 2020.  See \"Item 7. MD&A - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock.\"  The dividends on our 6.875% Convertible Preferred Stock may also be paid in cash or, subject to certain limitations, shares of common stock or any combination of cash and shares of common stock.. Further, a small number of common stockholders own a significant percentage of our outstanding common stock.  If any one of these common stockholders, or any group of our common stockholders, sells a large quantity of shares of our common stock, or the public market perceives that existing common stockholders might sell a large quantity of shares of our common stock, the market price of our common stock may significantly decline.. As a result of competition in our industry, we may find it more difficult to negotiate favorable rates on our new or renewing tenant contracts.. Our growth is dependent on our entering into new tenant contracts (including amendments to contracts upon modification of an existing tower, fiber, or small cell installation), as well as renewing or renegotiating tenant contracts when existing tenant contracts terminate.  Competition in our industry may make it more difficult for us to attract new customers, maintain or increase our gross margins, or maintain or increase our market share.  We face competition for site rental tenants and associated contractual rates from various sources, including (1) other independent communications infrastructure owners or operators, including those that own, operate, or manage towers, rooftops, broadcast towers, utility poles, fiber (including non-traditional competitors such as cable providers) or small cells, or (2) new alternative deployment methods for communications infrastructure.. Our Fiber operations may have different competitors than our Towers business, including other owners of fiber, as well as new entrants into small cells and fiber solutions, some of which may have larger networks or greater financial resources than we have.. New technologies may reduce demand for our communications infrastructure or negatively impact our revenues.. Improvements in the efficiency, architecture, and design of wireless networks may reduce the demand for our communications infrastructure.  For example, new technologies that may promote network sharing, joint development, wireless backhaul, or resale agreements by our customers, such as signal combining technologies or network functions virtualization, may reduce the need for our communications infrastructure. In addition, other technologies, such as WiFi, Distributed Antenna Systems (\"DAS\"), femtocells, other small cells, or satellite (such as low earth orbiting) and mesh transmission systems may, in the future, serve as substitutes for, or alternatives to, leasing on communications infrastructure that might otherwise be anticipated or expected had such technologies not existed.  In addition, new technologies that enhance the range, efficiency, and capacity of wireless equipment could reduce demand for our communications infrastructure.  Any significant reduction in demand for our communications infrastructure resulting from the new technologies may negatively impact our revenues or otherwise have a material adverse effect on us.. If we fail to retain rights to our communications infrastructure, including the land interests under our towers and the right-of-way and other agreements related to our small cells and fiber solutions, our business may be adversely affected.. The property interests, on which our communications infrastructure resides, including the land interests under our towers, consist of leasehold and sub-leasehold interests, fee interests, easements, licenses, and rights-of-way.  A loss of these interests may interfere with our ability to conduct our business or generate revenues.  For various reasons, we may not always have the ability. 13. to access, analyze, or verify all information regarding titles or other issues prior to acquiring communications infrastructure.  Further, we may not be able to renew ground leases on commercially viable terms.  Our ability to retain rights to the land interests on which our towers reside depends on our ability to purchase such land, including fee interests and perpetual easements, or renegotiate or extend the terms of the leases relating to such land.  Approximately 10% of our Towers site rental gross margin for the year ended December 31, 2017 was derived from towers where the leases for the interests under such towers had final expiration dates of less than ten years.  If we are unable to retain rights to the property interests on which our communications infrastructure resides, our business may be adversely affected.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 53% of our towers were leased or subleased or operated and managed under master leases, subleases, or other agreements with AT&T, Sprint, and T-Mobile.  We have the option to purchase these towers at the end of their respective lease terms.  We have no obligation to exercise such purchase options.  We may not have the required available capital to exercise our right to purchase some or all of these towers at the time these options are exercisable.  Even if we do have available capital, we may choose not to exercise our right to purchase these towers or some or all of the T-Mobile or AT&T towers for business or other reasons.  In the event that we do not exercise these purchase rights, or are otherwise unable to acquire an interest that would allow us to continue to operate these towers after the applicable period, we will lose the cash flows derived from such towers, which may have a material adverse effect on our business.  In the event that we decide to exercise these purchase rights, the benefits of the acquisition of these towers may not exceed the costs, which could adversely affect our business.  Additional information concerning these towers and the applicable purchase options as of December 31, 2017 is as follows:. • Approximately 22% of our towers are leased or subleased or operated and managed under a master prepaid lease or other related agreements with AT&T for a weighted-average initial term of approximately 28 years, weighted on site rental gross margin.  We have the option to purchase the leased and subleased towers from AT&T at the end of the respective lease or sublease terms for aggregate option payments of approximately $4.2 billion, which payments, if exercised, would be due between 2032 and 2048.. • Approximately 16% of our towers are leased or subleased or operated and managed for an initial period of 32 years (through May 2037) under master leases, subleases or other agreements with Sprint.  We have the option to purchase in 2037 all (but not less than all) of the leased and subleased Sprint towers from Sprint for approximately $2.3 billion.. • Approximately 15% of our towers are leased or subleased or operated and managed under a master prepaid lease or other related agreements with T-Mobile for a weighted-average initial term of approximately 28 years, weighted on site rental gross margin.  We have the option to purchase the leased and subleased towers from T-Mobile at the end of the respective lease or sublease terms for aggregate option payments of approximately $2.0 billion, which payments, if exercised, would be due between 2035 and 2049.  In addition, through the T-Mobile Acquisition, there are another approximately 1% of our towers subject to a lease and sublease or other related arrangements with AT&T.  We have the option to purchase these towers that we do not otherwise already own at the end of their respective lease terms for aggregate option payments of up to approximately $405 million, which payments, if exercised, would be due between 2018 and 2032 (less than $10 million would be due before 2025).. Under master lease or master prepaid lease arrangements we have with AT&T, Sprint and T-Mobile, certain of our subsidiaries lease or sublease, or are otherwise granted the right to manage and operate, towers from bankruptcy remote subsidiaries of such carriers.  If one of these bankruptcy remote subsidiaries should become a debtor in a bankruptcy proceeding and is permitted to reject the underlying ground lease, our subsidiaries could lose their interest in the applicable sites.  If our subsidiaries were to lose their interest in the applicable sites or if the applicable ground leases were to be terminated, we would lose the cash flow derived from the towers on those sites, which may have a material adverse effect on our business.  We have similar bankruptcy risks with respect to sites that we operate under management agreements.. For our small cells and fiber solutions, we must maintain rights-of-way, franchise, pole attachment, conduit use and other agreements to operate our assets. For various reasons, we may not always have the ability to maintain these agreements or obtain future agreements to construct, maintain and operate our fiber assets.  Access to rights-of-way depends in large part on our CLEC status, and we cannot be certain that jurisdictions will (1) recognize such CLEC status or (2) not change their laws concerning CLEC access to rights-of-way.  If a material portion of these agreements are terminated or are not renewed, we might be forced to abandon our assets, which may adversely impact our business. In order to operate our assets, we must also maintain fiber agreements that we have with public and private entities. There is no assurance that we will be able to renew those agreements on favorable terms, or at all. If we are unable to renew those agreements on favorable terms, we may face increased costs or reduced revenues.. 14. Additionally, in order to expand our communications infrastructure footprint to new locations, we often need to obtain new or additional rights-of-way and other agreements.  Our failure to obtain these agreements in a prompt and cost-effective manner may prevent us from expanding our footprint, which may be necessary to meet our contractual obligations to our customers and could adversely impact our business.. Our network services business has historically experienced significant volatility in demand, which reduces the predictability of our results.. The operating results of our network services business for any particular period may vary significantly and should not necessarily be considered indicative of longer-term results for this activity.  Our network services business is generally driven by demand for our communications infrastructure and may be adversely impacted by various factors, including:. • competition;. • the timing, mix and amount of customer network investments;. • the rate and volume of customer deployment plans;. • unforeseen delays or challenges relating to work performed;. • economic weakness or uncertainty;. • our market share; or. • changes in the size, scope, or volume of work performed.. New wireless technologies may not deploy or be adopted by customers as rapidly or in the manner projected.. There can be no assurances that new wireless services or technologies will be introduced or deployed as rapidly or in the manner projected by the wireless carriers.  In addition, demand or customer adoption rates for such new technologies may be lower or slower than anticipated for numerous reasons.  As a result, growth opportunities or demand for our communications infrastructure arising from such technologies may not be realized at the times or to the extent anticipated.. If we fail to comply with laws or regulations which regulate our business and which may change at any time, we may be fined or even lose our right to conduct some of our business.. A variety of federal, state, local, and foreign laws and regulations apply to our business, including those discussed in \"Item 1. Business.\"  Failure to comply with applicable requirements may lead to civil or criminal penalties, require us to assume indemnification obligations or breach contractual provisions.  We cannot guarantee that existing or future laws or regulations, including federal, state, or local tax laws, will not adversely affect our business (including our REIT status), increase delays or result in additional costs.  We also may incur additional costs as a result of liabilities under applicable laws and regulations, such as those governing environmental and safety matters.  These factors may have a material adverse effect on us.. If radio frequency emissions from wireless handsets or equipment on our communications infrastructure are demonstrated to cause negative health effects, potential future claims could adversely affect our operations, costs or revenues.. The potential connection between radio frequency emissions and certain negative health effects, including some forms of cancer, has been the subject of substantial study by the scientific community in recent years.  We cannot guarantee that claims relating to radio frequency emissions will not arise in the future or that the results of such studies will not be adverse to us.. Public perception of possible health risks associated with cellular or other wireless connectivity services may slow or diminish the growth of wireless companies, which may in turn slow or diminish our growth. In particular, negative public perception of, and regulations regarding, these perceived health risks may slow or diminish the market acceptance of wireless services.  If a connection between radio frequency emissions and possible negative health effects were established, our operations, costs, or revenues may be materially and adversely affected.  We currently do not maintain any significant insurance with respect to these matters.. Certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation (\"Charter\"), amended and restated by-laws (\"by-laws\") and operative agreements, and domestic and international competition laws may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us or for us to acquire control of a third party, even if such a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders.. We have a number of anti-takeover devices in place that will hinder takeover attempts or may reduce the market value of our common stock.  Our anti-takeover provisions include:. • the authority of the board of directors to issue preferred stock without approval of the holders of our common stock;. • advance notice requirements for director nominations or actions to be taken at annual meetings; and. • a provision that the state courts or, in certain circumstances, the federal courts, in Delaware shall be the sole and exclusive forum for certain actions involving us, our directors, officers, employees and stockholders.. 15. Our by-laws permit special meetings of the stockholders to be called only upon the request of our Chief Executive Officer or a majority of the board of directors, and deny stockholders the ability to call such meetings.  Such provisions, as well as the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, may impede a merger, consolidation, takeover, or other business combination or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us.. In addition, domestic or international competition laws may prevent or discourage us from acquiring communications infrastructure in certain geographical areas or impede a merger, consolidation, takeover, or other business combination or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us.. We may be vulnerable to security breaches that could adversely affect our operations, business, and reputation.. Despite existing security measures, certain of our communications infrastructure may be vulnerable to damage, disruptions, or shutdowns due to unauthorized access, computer viruses, cyber-attacks, and other security breaches.  An attack attempt or security breach, such as a distributed denial of service attack, could potentially result in (1) interruption or cessation of certain of our services to our customers, (2) our inability to meet expected levels of service to our customers, or (3) data transmitted over our customers' networks being compromised.  We cannot guarantee that our security measures will not be circumvented, resulting in customer network failures or interruptions that could impact our customers' network availability and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or operational results. We may be required to expend significant resources to protect against or recover from such threats. We maintain an insurance policy that includes coverage over cyber-attacks and other security breaches; however, there can be no assurances that such coverage will be adequate to cover exposure for such incidents.  If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed, and we could lose customers.  Further, the perpetrators of cyber-attacks are not restricted to particular groups or persons. These attacks may be committed by our employees or external actors operating in any geography.  In addition, our recent acquisitions, including the 2017 Acquisitions, may alter our potential exposure to the risks described above.  We are currently evaluating such risks with respect to these acquisitions.  Any such events could result in legal claims or penalties, disruption in operations, misappropriation of sensitive data, damage to our reputation, negative market perception, or costly response measures, which could adversely affect our business.. Risks Relating to Our REIT Status. Future dividend payments to our stockholders will reduce the availability of our cash on hand available to fund future discretionary investments, and may result in a need to incur indebtedness or issue equity securities to fund growth opportunities.  In such event, the then current economic, credit market or equity market conditions will impact the availability or cost of such financing, which may hinder our ability to grow our per share results of operations.. During each of the first three quarters of 2017, we paid a quarterly common stock dividend of $0.95 per share, totaling approximately $1.1 billion.  In October 2017, we increased our quarterly dividend, beginning in the fourth quarter of 2017, from an annual amount of $3.80 per share to an annual amount of $4.20 per share.  As such, we declared a quarterly dividend of $1.05 per share in October 2017, which represented an increase of 11% from the quarterly dividend declared during each of the first three quarters of 2017.  We currently expect such dividends to result in aggregate annual cash payments of at least $1.7 billion during the next 12 months.  Over time, we expect to increase our dividend per share generally commensurate with our realized growth in cash flows.  Any future dividends are subject to the approval of our board of directors.  See notes 12 and 19 to our consolidated financial statements.. We operate as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes.  To remain qualified and be taxed as a REIT, we will generally be required to annually distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction, excluding net capital gain and after the utilization of any available NOLs), to our stockholders.  Our quarterly cash common stock dividend will delay the utilization of our NOLs and may cause certain of the NOLs to expire without utilization. See also \"Item 7. MD&A - General Overview - Common Stock Dividend\" and \"Item 1. Business - Company Developments, REIT Status and Industry Update - REIT Status.\". As discussed in \"Item 1. MD&A - Business - Strategy,\" we seek to invest our capital, including the net cash provided by our operating activities as well as external financing sources, in a manner that we believe will increase long-term stockholder value on a risk-adjusted basis.  Our historical discretionary investments have included the following (in no particular order): acquiring or constructing communications infrastructure; acquiring land interests under towers; improving or structurally enhancing our existing communications infrastructure; purchasing our common stock; or purchasing, repaying or redeeming our debt.  External financing, including debt, equity, and equity-related issuances to fund future discretionary investments either (1) may not be available to us or (2) may not be accessible by us at terms that would result in the investment of the net proceeds raised yielding incremental growth in our per share operating results.  As a result, future dividend payments may hinder our ability to grow our per share results of operations or otherwise adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan.. 16. Remaining qualified to be taxed as a REIT involves highly technical and complex provisions of the Code.  Failure to remain qualified as a REIT would result in our inability to deduct dividends to stockholders when computing our taxable income, which would reduce our available cash.. We operate as a REIT for U.S. federal tax purposes.  As a REIT, we are generally entitled to a deduction for dividends that we pay and therefore are not subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax on our net taxable income that is currently distributed to our common stockholders.. While we intend to operate so that we remain qualified as a REIT, given the highly complex nature of the rules governing REITs, the importance of ongoing factual determinations, the possibility of future changes in our circumstances, and the potential impact of future changes to laws and regulations impacting REITs, no assurance can be given that we will qualify as a REIT for any particular year.. We do not expect the recently-enacted legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Reform Act to significantly affect us, although we cannot predict with certainty how such legislation will affect us in the future.  In addition, the present U.S. federal tax treatment of REITs is subject to change, possibly with retroactive effect, by legislative, judicial or administrative action at any time, and any such change might adversely affect our REIT status or benefits.  We cannot predict the impact, if any, that such changes, if enacted, might have on our business. However, it is possible that such changes could adversely affect our business, including our REIT status.. If, in any taxable year, we fail to qualify for taxation as a REIT and are not entitled to relief under certain provisions of the the Code, then:. • we will not be allowed a deduction for dividends paid to stockholders in computing our taxable income;. • we will be subject to federal and state income tax, including, for applicable years beginning before January 1, 2018, any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate rates; and. • we would be disqualified from re-electing REIT status for the four taxable years following the year during which we were so disqualified.. Although we may have federal NOLs available to reduce any taxable income, to the extent our federal NOLs have been utilized or are otherwise unavailable, any such corporate tax liability could be substantial, would reduce the amount of cash available for other purposes and might necessitate the borrowing of additional funds or the liquidation of some investments to pay any additional tax liability.  Accordingly, funds available for investment would be reduced.. Under the Code, for taxable years beginning before 2018, no more than 25% of the value of the assets of a REIT may be represented by securities of one or more TRSs.  For taxable years beginning in or after 2018, no more than 20% of the value of the assets of a REIT may be represented by securities of one or more TRSs.  These current or future limitations may affect our ability to make additional investments in non-REIT qualifying operations or assets, or in any operations held through TRSs.  The net income of our TRSs is not required to be distributed to us, and income that is not distributed to us generally will not be subject to the REIT income distribution requirement.  However, there may be limitations on our ability to accumulate earnings in our TRSs and the accumulation or reinvestment of significant earnings in our TRSs could result in adverse tax treatment.  In particular, if the accumulation of cash in our TRSs causes the fair market value of our securities in our TRSs to exceed current or future limitations of the fair market value of our assets at the end of any quarter, then we may fail to remain qualified as a REIT.. If we fail to pay scheduled dividends on our 6.875% Convertible Preferred Stock, in cash, common stock, or any combination of cash and common stock, we will be prohibited from paying dividends on our common stock, which may jeopardize our status as a REIT.. The terms of the 6.875% Convertible Preferred Stock provide that, unless accumulated dividends have been paid or set aside for payment on all outstanding 6.875% Convertible Preferred Stock for all past dividend periods, no dividends may be declared or paid on our common stock. If that were to occur, the inability to pay dividends on our common stock might jeopardize our status as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. See note 12 to our consolidated financial statements.. 17. Complying with REIT requirements, including the 90% distribution requirement, may limit our flexibility or cause us to forgo otherwise attractive opportunities, including certain discretionary investments and potential financing alternatives.. To remain qualified and be taxed as a REIT, we are required to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement as described above.  We commenced declaring regular quarterly dividends to our common stockholders beginning with the first quarter of 2014.  See notes 12 and 19 to our consolidated financial statements.  Any such dividends, however, are subject to the determination and approval of our board of directors based on then-current and anticipated future conditions, including our earnings, net cash provided by operating activities, capital requirements, financial condition, our relative market capitalization, our existing federal NOLs of approximately $1.5 billion or other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors.. To the extent that we satisfy the 90% distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our REIT taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction, excluding net capital gain and after the utilization of any available NOLs), we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income.  In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we pay out to our stockholders for a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under the Code.. From time to time, we may generate REIT taxable income greater than our cash flow as a result of differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash or the effect of nondeductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves or required debt or amortization payments.  If we do not have other funds available in these situations, we could be required to borrow funds on unfavorable terms, sell assets at disadvantageous prices, or distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions to make distributions sufficient to enable us to pay out enough of our taxable income to satisfy the REIT dividend requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax in a particular year.  These alternatives could increase our costs or reduce our equity.  Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to grow, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock.  Furthermore, the REIT dividend requirements may increase the financing we need to fund capital expenditures, future growth, or expansion initiatives, which would increase our total leverage.. In addition to satisfying the 90% distribution requirement, to remain qualified as a REIT for tax purposes, we will need to continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets and the ownership of our capital stock.  Compliance with these tests will require us to refrain from certain activities and may hinder our ability to make certain attractive investments, including the purchase of non-qualifying assets, the expansion of non-real estate activities, or investments in the businesses to be conducted by our TRSs, and to that extent, limit our opportunities and our flexibility to change our business strategy.  Furthermore, acquisition opportunities in domestic or international markets may be adversely affected if we need or require the target company to comply with some REIT requirements prior to completing any such acquisition.  In addition, our conversion to a REIT may result in investor pressures not to pursue growth opportunities that are not immediately accretive.. Moreover, if we fail to comply with certain asset ownership tests, at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct the failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter or qualify for certain statutory relief provisions to avoid losing our REIT qualification.  As a result, we may be required to liquidate assets in adverse market conditions or forgo otherwise attractive investments.  These actions may reduce our income and amounts available for distribution to our stockholders.. REIT related ownership limitations and transfer restrictions may prevent or restrict certain transfers of our capital stock.. In order for us to continue to satisfy the requirements for REIT qualification, our capital stock must be beneficially owned by 100 or more persons during at least 335 days of a taxable year of 12 months or during a proportionate part of a shorter taxable year. Also, not more than 50% of the value of the outstanding shares of our capital stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer \"individuals\" (as defined in the Code to include certain entities such as private foundations) during the last half of a taxable year.  In order to facilitate compliance with the REIT rules, our Charter includes provisions that implement REIT-related ownership limitations and transfer restrictions that generally prohibit any \"person\" (as defined in our Charter) from beneficially or constructively owning, or being deemed to beneficially or constructively own by virtue of the attribution provisions of the Code, more than 9.8%, by value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of the outstanding shares of our common stock, or 9.8% in aggregate value of the outstanding shares of all classes and series of our capital stock, including our common stock and any shares of our 6.875% Convertible Preferred Stock.  In addition, our Charter provides for certain other ownership limitations and transfer restrictions. Under applicable constructive ownership rules, any shares of capital stock owned by certain affiliated owners generally would be added together for purposes of the ownership limitations. These ownership limitations and transfer restrictions could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control of our company that might involve a premium price for our capital stock or otherwise might be in the best interest of our stockholders.. 18. Available Information and Certifications. We maintain a website at www.crowncastle.com.  Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K (and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (\"Exchange Act\")) are made available, free of charge, through the investor relations section of our website at http://investor.crowncastle.com and at the SEC's website at http://sec.gov as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC.  You may also read or copy any document we file with the SEC at the SEC's public reference room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549.  Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference room.. In addition, our corporate governance guidelines, business practices, ethics policy and financial code of ethics and the charters of our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating & Corporate Governance Committee are available through the investor relations section of our website at http://www.crowncastle.com/investor/corporateGovernance.aspx, and such information is also available in print to any stockholder who requests it.. We submitted the Chief Executive Officer certification required by Section 303A.12(a) of the New York Stock Exchange (\"NYSE\") Listed Company Manual, relating to compliance with the NYSE's corporate governance listing standards, to the NYSE on May 24, 2017 with no qualifications.  We have included the certifications of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer required by Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related rules as Exhibits 31.1 and 31.2 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. 19"
