[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. Certain Business Risks. Although it is not possible to identify all of the risks we encounter, we have identified the following significant risk factors that could affect our actual results and cause actual results to differ materially from any such results that might be projected, forecasted, or estimated by us in this Annual Report.. We depend on domestic and international demand for and production of natural gas and oil, and a reduction in this demand or production could adversely affect the demand or the prices we charge for our services, which could cause our revenue and cash available for distribution to our unitholders to decrease.. Our operations are significantly dependent upon the demand for, and production of, natural gas and oil in the various domestic and international markets in which we operate. Natural gas and oil production may be affected by, among other factors, prices for such commodities, weather, and availability of alternative energy sources.. The reduction in natural gas and oil prices that began in 2014 and continued through 2015 and 2016 resulted in declining demand for certain of our products and services compared to 2014 levels, which reduced our cash available for distribution. In April 2017, our general partner announced a reduction of approximately 50% in the level of cash distributions on our common units beginning with the quarter ended March 31, 2017. U.S. natural gas prices during 2017 have been fairly consistent, as Henry Hub prices hovered close to $3.00 per million British thermal units (\"MMBtu\") during most of the year. However, during 2017 prices were much more volatile, including the lowest in nearly 20 years, with Henry Hub prices ranging from a low of $1.49 per million British thermal units (\"MMBtu\") in March 2016 to a high of $3.80 per MMBtu in December 2016. The Henry Hub price for natural gas as of February 26, 2018 was $2.44 per MMBtu. Although crude oil prices were also volatile early in 2016, with West Texas Intermediate oil prices ranging from a nearly 13-year low of $26.19 per barrel in February 2016 to a high of $54.01 per barrel in December 2016, prices steadily increased to their strongest level in over two years during 2017 and early 2018. As a result, the sector is regaining a sense of optimism, however if oil and natural gas prices in 2018 decline, this may further negatively affect the operating cash flows and exploration and development activities and plans of many of our customers and continue to have a negative impact on the demand for our compression products and services.. We may not have sufficient cash from operations following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of debt service and other contractual obligations, fees and expenses, including cost reimbursements to our general partner, to enable us to make cash distributions to our common unitholders at the current quarterly distribution rate.. Under the terms of our partnership agreement, the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution is reduced by our operating expenses and the amount of cash reserves that our general partner establishes to provide for future operations, future capital expenditures, future debt service requirements, and future cash distributions to our common unitholders. Demand for our products and services by our customers increased during 2017, and certain wage reductions and workweek reductions implemented during 2016 were reinstated during 2017. However, we continue to review operating and capital expenditure cost levels in order to optimize our levels of cash available for distributions. On January 22, 2018, our general partner declared a cash distribution attributable to the quarter ended December 31, 2017, of $0.1875 per outstanding common unit, consistent with the prior quarter. In order to make cash distributions at this current distribution rate of $0.1875 per common unit per quarter, or $0.75 per. 9. common unit per year, we will require available cash of approximately $7.3 million per quarter, or $29.2 million per year, based on the number of common units outstanding as of March 1, 2018. As a result of the issuance of the Preferred Units during 2016, and as Preferred Units continue to convert into common units, more distributable cash will be required to maintain the current distribution rate per common unit. We may not have sufficient available cash each quarter to enable us to make cash distributions at the current quarterly distribution rate under our cash distribution policy, or any distribution at all. The amount of cash we can distribute to our common unitholders principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which fluctuates from quarter-to-quarter based on, among other things, the risks described in this section.. Many of our operating expenses have been volatile and may continue to be volatile or increase in the future. To the extent our efforts to contain these costs are not successful, our generation of operating cash flows to fund our quarterly distributions will be negatively affected.. Failure to comply with the financial ratios in our Credit Agreement could result in defaults under our Credit Agreement and result in decreased credit availability and reduced distributions.. Our Credit Agreement provides us with an asset-based revolving credit facility with a borrowing capacity of up to $315 million, subject to borrowing base requirements (as amended, the \"Credit Agreement\"). As of December 31, 2017, our consolidated balance sheet includes $512.2 million carrying value of long-term debt consisting of (i) $224.0 million carrying value under the Credit Agreement and (ii) $288.2 million carrying value of 7.25% Senior Notes issued pursuant to an Indenture dated as of August 4, 2014 with U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (the \"Indenture\"). Debt service costs related to our outstanding long-term debt represents a significant use of our operating cash flow and could increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions. Payment of our debt service obligations reduces cash available for distribution to our common unitholders. Any breach of, or our inability to borrow under, our Credit Agreement, could impact our ability to fund distributions (if we elected to do so), among other adverse impacts.. On May 5, 2017, we entered into an amendment (the \"Fifth Amendment\") to our Credit Agreement that modified certain financial covenants in the Credit Agreement, providing that (i) the consolidated total leverage ratio may not exceed (a) 5.95 to 1 as of March 31, 2017; (b) 6.75 to 1 as of June 30, 2017 and September 30, 2017; (c) 6.50 to 1 as of December 31, 2017 and March 31, 2018; (d) 6.25 to 1 as of June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2018; (e) 6.00 to 1 as of December 31, 2018; and (e) 5.75 to 1 as of March 31, 2019 and thereafter; and (ii) the consolidated secured leverage ratio may not exceed 3.25 to 1 as of the end of any fiscal quarter. The consolidated interest coverage ratio was not amended by the Fifth Amendment. In addition, the Fifth Amendment (i) increased the applicable margin by 0.25% in the event the consolidated total leverage ratio exceeds 6.00 to 1, resulting in a range for the applicable margin between 2.00% and 3.50% per annum for LIBOR-based loans and 1.00 to 2.50% per annum for base-rate loans, according to the consolidated total leverage ratio, and (ii) modified the appraisal delivery requirement from an annual requirement to a semi-annual requirement. The Fifth Amendment also included additional revisions that provide flexibility for the issuance of preferred securities.. Continued access to our Credit Agreement is dependent upon our compliance with financial ratio covenants as well as the borrowing base and other provisions set forth in the Credit Agreement. Our Credit Agreement contains additional restrictive provisions (\"cash dominion provisions\") that are imposed if an event of default has occurred and is continuing or \"excess availability\" falls below $30.0 million. Our Credit Agreement and the 7.25% Senior Notes also include covenants that restrict our ability to take certain actions or engage in certain transactions.. Our Credit Agreement provides that we may make distributions to holders of our common units, but only if there is no default under the Credit Agreement and we maintain excess availability of $30.0 million. Our ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in our Credit Agreement may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial, and industry conditions. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate, our ability to comply with these covenants may be impaired. A failure to comply with the provisions of our Credit Agreement could result in an event of default. Upon an event of default, unless waived, the lenders under our Credit Agreement would have all remedies available to secured lenders and could elect to terminate their commitments, cease making further loans, require cash collateralization of letters of credit, cause their loans to become due and payable in full, institute foreclosure proceedings against us or our subsidiaries' assets, and force us and our subsidiaries into bankruptcy or liquidation. If the payment of our debt is accelerated, our assets may be insufficient to repay such debt in full, and the holders of our common units could experience a partial or total loss of their investment. An event of default under our Credit Agreement could also constitute an event of default under our 7.25% Senior Notes.. 10. We are in compliance with all covenants of our Credit Agreement as of December 31, 2017. Our continuing ability to comply with covenants depends largely upon our ability to generate adequate cash flow. We have reviewed our financial forecasts as of March 1, 2018 which considers the recent amendments to our Credit Agreement. Based on this review and the current market conditions as of March 1, 2018, we believe that we will have adequate liquidity, earnings, and operating cash flows to fund our operations and debt obligations and maintain compliance with our Credit Agreement debt covenants through March 1, 2019. However, there can be no assurance that we will remain in compliance with one or more of our covenants of our Credit Agreement in the future.. Our debt levels may limit our flexibility in obtaining additional financing and in pursuing other business opportunities.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $224.0 million outstanding under our Credit Agreement and $295.9 million aggregate principal amount outstanding under our 7.25% Senior Notes. As of February 28, 2018, the amount outstanding under our Credit Agreement had increased to approximately $245.0 million out of a maximum borrowing capacity of $315.0 million under our Credit Agreement.. Increases in our indebtedness increase our total interest expense, which in turn reduces our cash available for distribution. Our ability to service our indebtedness will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, we may be forced to consider taking actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments and/or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness, or seeking additional equity capital or bankruptcy protection. We may not be able to take any of these courses of action.. The loss of any of our most significant customers would result in a decline in our revenue and cash available to pay distributions to our common unitholders.. Our five most significant customers collectively accounted for approximately 28.9% of our 2017 revenues. Our services and products are provided to these customers pursuant to equipment sales or short-term contract compression services agreements, many of which are cancellable with 30-days' notice. The loss of all or even a portion of the services we provide to these customers, as a result of competition or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. The credit and risk profile of TETRA could adversely affect our business and our ability to make distributions to our common unitholders.. The credit and business risk profile of TETRA could adversely affect our ability to incur indebtedness in the future or obtain a credit rating, as credit rating agencies may consider the leverage and credit profile of TETRA and its affiliates in assigning a rating because of their control of us, their performance of administrative functions for us, our close operational links, and our contractual relationships. Furthermore, the trading price of our common units may be adversely affected by financial or operational difficulties or excessive debt levels at TETRA. In addition, if TETRA's ownership of our general partner is pledged to TETRA's lenders, control over our general partner could be transferred to TETRA's lenders in the event of a default by TETRA.. We may be unable to negotiate extensions or replacements of our contracts with our customers, which are generally cancellable on 30-days' notice, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our common unitholders.. We generally provide compression services to our customers under \"evergreen\" contracts that are cancellable on thirty days' notice. We may be unable to negotiate extensions or replacements of these contracts on favorable terms, if at all, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our common unitholders.. 11. We are exposed to interest rate risk with regard to our indebtedness.. Our Credit Agreement provides for floating rate borrowings that bear interest at an agreed upon percentage rate spread above LIBOR or a base rate. As of February 28, 2018, we had approximately $245.0 million of borrowings outstanding, including $8.5 million of letters of credit and performance bonds. Accordingly, our cash flows and results of operations are subject to interest rate risk exposure associated with the level of variable rate borrowings outstanding. We currently are not a party to an interest rate swap contract or other derivative instrument designed to hedge our exposure to interest rate fluctuation risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on variable rate indebtedness would increase (even if the amount borrowed remained the same). A 1.0% increase in interest rates on the borrowings outstanding under our Credit Agreement would cost us approximately $2.3 million in additional annual interest expense.. We face competition that may cause us to lose market share and harm our financial performance.. Our business is highly competitive. We face competition from a variety of large and small companies, including national and multinational companies with greater financial resources than we have. Our ability to renew or replace existing contracts with our customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows could be adversely affected by the activities of our competitors. Our competitors could substantially increase the resources they devote to the development and marketing of competitive equipment or services, develop more efficient equipment, or decrease the price at which they offer their equipment services or sell their equipment. Any of these competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and ability to make cash distributions to our common unitholders.. We depend on particular suppliers and are vulnerable to engine and compressor component shortages and. price increases, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash available for. distribution to our common unitholders.. We fabricate most of our compressor packages and pump systems. We obtain some of the components used in our compressor packages and pump systems from a single source or a limited group of suppliers. Significant suppliers of material components include Caterpillar, Inc. and Ariel Corporation for engines and compressor components, respectively. Our reliance on these and other suppliers involves several risks, including our potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components in a timely manner. We do not have long-term contracts with these sources and the partial or complete loss of certain of these sources could have a negative impact on our results of operations and could damage our customer relationships. Further, since any increase in component prices for compressor packages and pump systems fabricated by us could decrease our margins, a significant increase in the price of one or more of these components could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our common unitholders.. Operating cash flow levels from the sale of compressor packages and pump systems are inconsistent.. A significant portion of our revenues is derived from the sales of compressor packages and pump systems. During 2017, we reported revenues of $49.5 million from the sale of compressor packages. As of December 31, 2017, we had a compressor package and pump system sales order backlog of $47.5 million, which compared to $21.6 million as of December 31, 2016. Demand to purchase our compressor packages and pump systems is also affected by numerous factors, including the prices of natural gas and oil and the level of capital spending by our customers. A change in our business strategy or any of these factors could cause cash flows from the sale of compressor packages and pump systems to decrease.. Our future growth and success will depend upon a number of factors, some of which we cannot control.. Our long-term growth strategy includes both internal growth and growth through acquisitions. Our future internal growth and success will depend upon a number of factors that are outside of our control. These factors include our ability to:. • attract new customers;. • maintain our existing customers and maintain or expand the level of services we provide to them; and. • recruit, train, and retain qualified field services and other personnel.. Failure in any of these areas could adversely affect our ability to execute our internal growth strategy.. 12. Our ability to grow in the future may be dependent on our ability to access external expansion capital.. We distribute to our common unitholders all of our available cash after paying expenses and establishing desired reserves. As of December 31, 2017, our total cash balance was $7.6 million. If our cash balances are insufficient to fund future growth opportunities, we plan to rely primarily upon external financing sources, including borrowings under our revolving credit facility and the issuance of debt and equity securities, to fund such growth. To the extent we are unable to efficiently finance growth externally, our cash distribution policy will significantly impair our ability to grow. To the extent we issue additional partnership units in connection with our growth, the payment of distributions on those additional partnership units may increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain or increase our per-unit distribution. There are no limitations in our partnership agreement or our Credit Agreement on our ability to issue additional common units.. We may be unable to grow successfully through future acquisitions and we may not be able to achieve the expected benefits of and integrate the businesses we do acquire effectively, which may impact our operations and limit our ability to increase distributions to our common unitholders.. From time to time, we may choose to make business acquisitions to pursue market opportunities, increase our existing capabilities, and expand into new areas of operations. We may not be able to identify attractive acquisition opportunities or successfully acquire identified targets. If oil and natural gas prices worsen or do not improve, we may not achieve all of the expected benefits of or be successful in fully integrating any future acquisitions into our existing operations, which may result in unforeseen operational difficulties or diminished financial performance or require a disproportionate amount of attention from our general partner's personnel. Even if we are successful in fully integrating any future acquisitions into our existing operations, we may not derive the benefits, such as operational or administrative synergies, that we expect from such acquisitions, which may result in the commitment of our capital resources without the expected returns on such capital. Furthermore, competition for acquisition opportunities may escalate, increasing our cost of making acquisitions or causing us to refrain from making acquisitions. Our inability to make acquisitions or to achieve the expected results of and integrate successfully future acquisitions into our existing operations may impact our operations and limit our ability to increase distributions to our common unitholders.. Our sales to and operations in foreign countries exposes us to additional risks and uncertainties, including with respect to U.S. trade and economic sanctions, export control laws, and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. (\"FCPA\"), and similar anti-bribery laws. If we are not in compliance with applicable legal requirements, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties and other remedial measures that could have a material impact on our business.. We have operations in Mexico, Canada, and Argentina as well as a number of other foreign countries. A portion of our expected future growth includes expansion in these and other foreign countries. Foreign operations carry special risks. Our operations in the countries in which we currently operate and those countries in which we may operate in the future, could be adversely affected by:. • government controls and actions, such as expropriation of assets and changes in legal and regulatory environments;. • import and export license requirements;. • political, social, or economic instability;. • trade restrictions;. • changes in tariffs and taxes;. • currency exposure;. • restrictions on repatriating foreign profits back to the United States; and. • the impact of anti-corruption laws.. Sanctions imposed by the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control (\"OFAC\") prohibit our operations in or sales to customers in certain foreign countries. We are also subject to the FCPA, which prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from bribing foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment, and other similar laws governing our foreign operations. The FCPA's foreign counterparts, including the UK Bribery Act, contain similar prohibitions, although varying in both scope and jurisdiction. We operate in parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption in the past.. 13. We have policies and procedures to maintain our compliance with the FCPA, OFAC sanctions, export controls, and similar laws and regulations. While we do not believe that CSI was in violation of any of the aforementioned laws or regulations, including with respect to its historical sales to customers in Mexico and the Republic of the Union of Myanmar (also referred to as Myanmar or Burma), it is possible that we could discover such violations in the process of our integration. The implementation of such policies and procedures may be time consuming and expensive, and could result in the discovery of issues or violations with respect to the foregoing by us or our employees, independent contractors, subcontractors, or agents of which we were previously unaware. If we violate, or discover that CSI has violated, any of these regulations, significant administrative, civil, and criminal penalties could be assessed on us. In addition, foreign governments and agencies often establish permit and regulatory standards different from those in the U.S. If we cannot obtain foreign regulatory approvals or cannot obtain them in a timely manner, our growth and profitability from international operations could be adversely affected.. Escalating security disruptions in regions of Mexico served by us could adversely affect our Mexican operations, and, as a result, the levels of revenue and operating cash flow from our Mexican operations could be reduced.. In recent years, incidents of security disruptions throughout many regions of Mexico have increased. Drug-related gang activity has grown in Mexico. Certain incidents of violence have occurred in regions in which we operate and have resulted in the interruption of our operations, and these interruptions could increase in the future. To the extent that such security disruptions increase, the levels of revenue and operating cash flow from our Mexican operations could be reduced.. Our operations in Argentina expose us to the changing economic, legal, and political environment in that country, including changing regulations governing the repatriation of cash generated from our operations in Argentina.. The current economic, legal, and political environment in Argentina and recent devaluations of the Argentinian peso have created increased instability for foreign investment in Argentina. The Argentinian government is currently attempting to address the current high rate of inflation and the continuing currency devaluation pressure. Fiscal and monetary expansion in Argentina has led to devaluations of the Argentinian peso, particularly in late 2013, early 2014, and late 2015. Additional devaluation may be necessary to help boost the current Argentina economy, and they may be accompanied by fiscal and monetary tightening, including additional restrictions on the transfer of U.S. dollars out of Argentina.. As a result of our operations in Argentina, consolidated revenues and operating cash flow generated in Argentina have increased over the past three years. As of December 31, 2017, approximately $53,000 of our consolidated cash balance is located in bank accounts in Argentina, and the process of repatriating this cash to the U.S. is subject to increasingly complex regulations. There can be no assurances that our growing Argentinian operations will not expose us to the loss of liquidity, foreign exchange losses, and other potential financial impacts.. Our ability to manage and grow our business effectively and provide quality services to our customers may be adversely affected if our general partner loses its management or is unable to retain trained personnel.. We rely primarily on the executive officers and other senior management of our general partner to manage our operations and make decisions on our behalf. Our ability to provide quality compression services depends upon our general partner's ability to hire, train, and retain an adequate number of trained personnel. The departure of any of our general partner's executive officers or other senior management could have a significant negative effect on our business, operating results, financial condition, and our ability to compete effectively in the marketplace. We operate in an industry characterized by highly competitive labor markets, and, similar to many of our competitors, we have experienced high employee turnover in certain regions. It is possible that our labor expenses could increase if there is a shortage in the supply of skilled regional service supervisors and other service professionals. Our general partner may be unable to maintain an adequate skilled labor force necessary for us to operate efficiently and to support our growth strategy. Failure to do so could impair our ability to operate efficiently and to retain current customers and attract prospective customers, which could cause our business to suffer materially. Additionally, increases in labor expenses may have an adverse impact on our operating results and may reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our common unitholders.. 14. The employees conducting our operations in Mexico and Argentina are party to collective labor agreements, and a prolonged work stoppage of our operations in Mexico or Argentina could adversely impact our revenues, cash flows and net income.. The personnel conducting our operations in Mexico are currently subject to collective labor agreements. These collective labor agreements consist of \"evergreen\" contracts that have no expiration date and whose terms remain in full force and effect from year-to-year, unless the parties agree to negotiate new terms. The employees subject to these \"evergreen\" agreements may, however, request a renegotiation of their employee compensation terms on an annual basis or a renegotiation of the entire agreement on a biannual basis, although we are not required to honor any such request. The personnel conducting operations in Argentina are also subject to collective labor agreements. We have not experienced work stoppages in Mexico or Argentina in the past, but cannot guarantee that we will not experience work stoppages in the future. A prolonged work stoppage could adversely impact our revenues, cash flows, and net income.. TETRA and its affiliates are not limited in their ability to compete with us, which could cause conflicts of interest and limit our ability to acquire additional assets or businesses, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our common unitholders.. Neither our partnership agreement nor the Omnibus Agreement between TETRA and us prohibits TETRA and its affiliates from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. TETRA currently provides some services for PEMEX in Mexico in competition with us and could choose to further compete with us for additional services for PEMEX in Mexico. In addition, TETRA and its affiliates may acquire compression-based services businesses or assets in the future, without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase any of that business or those assets. As a result, competition from TETRA could adversely affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution.. Our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations may result in fluctuations in our cash flows and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. Because we have operations in Mexico, Canada and Argentina, and in certain other foreign countries, a portion of our business is conducted in foreign currencies. As a result, we are exposed to currency exchange rate fluctuations that could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. If a foreign currency weakened significantly, we would be required to convert more of that foreign currency to U.S. dollars to satisfy our obligations, which would cause us to have less cash available for distribution. A significant strengthening of the U.S. dollar could result in an increase in our financing expenses and could materially affect our financial results under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (\"GAAP\"). Because we report our operating results in U.S. dollars, changes in the value of the U.S. dollar also result in fluctuations in our reported revenues and earnings. Most of our billings under the contracts with PEMEX and other clients in Mexico are in U.S. dollars; however, a large portion of our expenses and costs under those contracts are incurred in Mexican pesos. In addition, future contract awards with PEMEX may require us to bill a larger portion of our revenues in Mexican pesos, which would expose us to additional foreign currency exchange rate risks.. As a result of the above, we are exposed to fluctuations in the values of the Mexican and Argentinian peso against the U.S. dollar. A material increase in the values of these foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar would adversely affect our cash flows and net income. In addition, for our operations in Canada, where the Canadian dollar is the functional currency under GAAP, all U.S. dollar-denominated monetary assets and liabilities, such as cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, restricted cash, accounts payable, long-term debt and capital lease obligations, are revalued and reported based on the prevailing exchange rate at the end of the reporting period. This revaluation may cause us to report significant foreign currency exchange gains and losses in certain periods.. Further changes in the economic environment could result in further significant impairments of certain of our long-lived assets.. In years subsequent to 2014, including early 2017, lower oil and natural gas commodity prices resulted in a decreased demand for certain of our products and services. Demand for compression services and for sales of compressor equipment decreased significantly, although recently we are seeing signs of increased demand, particularly for mid- and high-horsepower compression services and equipment. Decreased commodity prices had, and may continue to have, a negative impact on oil and gas drilling and capital expenditure activity, which affects. 15. the demand for a portion of our products and services. During 2015 and 2016, primarily as a result of the significant decreases in oil and natural gas prices during these periods, we recorded certain consolidated long-lived asset impairments, including goodwill impairments, of approximately $253.8 million. Further changes in the economic environment could result in decreased demand for our products and services, which could impact the expected utilization rates of our compressor package fleet. Under generally accepted accounting principles, we review the carrying value of our long-lived assets when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable, based on their expected future cash flows. The impact of reduced expected future cash flow could require the write-down of all or a portion of the carrying value for these assets, which would result in additional impairments, resulting in decreased earnings.. Anticipated benefits from our system software development project may not be fully realizable.. During 2016, we initiated a system software development project designed to improve operating and administrative efficiencies and allow us to further reduce costs. The new software system was launched in August 2017 and is intended to align the administrative and operations systems of our entire organization and is designed to integrate the operations of CSI with our existing system environment. The total cost of this software system development project was $12.6 million. There is a risk that this software development project will not accomplish all of its desired efficiencies due to software limitations, operational complexities, cost and timing constraints, and other factors.. We are exposed to significant credit risks.. We face credit risk associated with the significant amounts of accounts receivable we have with our customers in the energy industry. Many of our customers, particularly those associated with our low-horsepower compression service operations, are small- to medium-sized oil and gas operators that may be more susceptible to fluctuating oil and gas commodity prices or generally increased operating expenses than larger companies. Our customers' ability to pay is impacted by a decreased oil and natural gas price environment.. We are subject to environmental regulations, and changes in these regulations could increase our costs or liabilities.. We are subject to federal, state, local, and foreign laws and regulatory standards, including laws and regulations regarding the discharge of materials into the environment, emission controls, and other environmental protection and occupational health and safety concerns. Environmental laws and regulations may, in certain circumstances, impose strict and joint and several liability for environmental contamination, rendering us liable for remediation costs, natural resource damages, and other damages resulting from our ownership of property or conduct that was lawful at the time it occurred or the conduct of, or conditions caused by, prior owners or operators or other third parties. In addition, where contamination may be present, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury, property damage, and recovery of response costs. Remediation costs and other damages arising as a result of environmental laws and regulations, and costs associated with new information, changes in existing environmental laws and regulations or the adoption of new environmental laws and regulations could be substantial and could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Moreover, failure to comply with these environmental laws and regulations may result in the imposition of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, and the issuance of injunctions delaying or prohibiting operations.. We routinely deal with natural gas, oil, and other petroleum products. Hydrocarbons or other hazardous wastes may have been released during our operations or by third parties on wellhead sites where we provide services or store our equipment or on or under other locations where wastes have been taken for disposal. These properties may be subject to investigatory, remediation, and monitoring requirements under foreign, federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations.. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (the \"EPA\") has adopted regulations under the Clean Air Act to control emissions of hazardous air pollutants from reciprocal internal combustion engines and more recently the EPA adopted regulations that establish air emission controls for natural gas and natural gas liquids production, processing and transportation activities, including New Source Performance Standards as well as emission standards to address hazardous air pollutants. Certain CSI compressors are subject to these new requirements and additional control equipment and maintenance operations are required. While we do not believe that compliance with current regulatory requirements will have a material adverse effect on the business, additional regulations. 16. could impose new air permitting or pollution control requirements on our equipment that could require us to incur material costs.. The modification or interpretation of existing environmental laws or regulations, the more vigorous enforcement of existing environmental laws or regulations, or the adoption of new environmental laws or regulations may also adversely affect oil and natural gas exploration and production, which in turn could have an adverse effect on us.. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of \"greenhouse gases\" could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and natural gas our customers produce, while the physical effects of climate change could disrupt production and cause us to incur costs in preparing for or responding to those effects.. The EPA has determined that greenhouse gases (\"GHGs\") present an endangerment to public health and the environment, because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. Based on these findings, the EPA has begun adopting and implementing regulations to restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the Clean Air Act (\"CAA\"). Such EPA rules regulate GHG emissions under the CAA and require a reduction in emissions of GHGs from motor vehicles and from certain large stationary sources. The EPA rules also require so-called \"green\" completions at hydraulically fractured natural gas wells beginning in 2015. In addition, the EPA requires the annual reporting of GHG emissions from specified large GHG emission sources in the United States, including petroleum refineries, as well as from certain oil and gas production facilities.. In addition, in December 2015, over 190 countries, including the United States, reached an agreement to reduce global greenhouse gas emissions (the \"Paris Agreement\"). The Paris Agreement entered into force in November 2016 after more than 170 nations, including the United States, ratified or otherwise indicated their intent to be bound by the Paris Agreement. However, in June 2017, President Trump announced that the United States intends to withdraw from the Paris Agreement and to seek negotiations either to reenter the Paris Agreement on different terms or a separate agreement. In August 2017, the U.S. Department of State officially informed the United Nations of the United States' intent to withdraw from the Paris Agreement. The Paris Agreement provides for a four-year exit process beginning when it took effect in November 2016, which would result in an effective exit date of November 2020. The United States' adherence to the exit process and/or the terms on which the United States may re-enter the Paris Agreement or a separately negotiated agreement are unclear at this time. To the extent that the United States and other countries implement the Paris Agreement or impose other climate change regulations on the oil and natural gas industry, it could have an adverse effect on our business.. The adoption and implementation of any regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of GHGs from, our facilities and operations could require us to incur costs. Further, Congress has considered and almost one-half of the states have adopted legislation that seeks to control or reduce emissions of GHGs from a wide range of sources. Any such legislation could adversely affect demand for the oil and natural gas our customers produce and, in turn, demand for our products and services. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the Earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods, and other climatic events; if any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our operations and cause us to incur costs in preparing for or responding to those effects.. 17. Regulatory initiatives related to hydraulic fracturing in the countries where we and our customers operate could result in operating restrictions or delays in the completion of oil and gas wells that may reduce demand for our services.. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of hydrocarbons from dense subsurface rock formations. The process involves the injection of water, sand or other proppants and chemical additives under pressure into targeted geological formations to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production.. Hydraulic fracturing typically is regulated by state oil and gas commissions or similar state agencies, but several federal agencies have asserted regulatory authority over certain aspects of the process. For example, the EPA asserted regulatory authority pursuant to the federal Safe Drinking Water Act (\"SDWA\") Underground Injection Control (\"UIC\") program over hydraulic fracturing activities involving the use of diesel and issued guidance covering such activities; published final rules under the federal CAA in 2012 and published additional final regulations in June 2016 governing methane and volatile organic compound (\"VOC\") performance standards, including standards for the capture of air emissions released during for the oil and natural gas hydraulic fracturing industry; published in June 2016 an effluent limitations guidelines final rule prohibiting the discharge of waste water from shale natural-gas extraction operations before discharging to a treatment plant; and in 2014 published an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking regarding Toxic Substances Control Act reporting of the chemical substances and mixtures used in hydraulic fracturing. Also, the U.S. Bureau of Land Management (\"BLM\") published a final rule in March 2015 that established new or more stringent standards for performing hydraulic fracturing on federal and Indian lands. However, in June 2016, a Wyoming federal judge struck down this final rule, finding that the BLM lacked authority to promulgate the rule, the BLM appealed the decision to the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit in July 2016, the appellate court issued a ruling in September 2017 to vacate the Wyoming trial court decision and dismiss the lawsuit challenging the 2015 rule in response to the BLM's issuance of a proposed rulemaking to rescind the 2015 rule and, in December 2017, the BLM published a final rule rescinding the March 2015 rule. In January 2018, litigation challenging the BLM's rescission of the 2015 rule was brought in federal court, but, in June 2016, a Wyoming federal judge struck down this final rule, finding that the BLM lacked authority to promulgate the rule. That decision was appealed by the BLM to the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit in 2016, but, in March 2017, the BLM filed a request with the Tenth Circuit to put the appeal on hold pending rescission of the 2015 final rule.. The U.S. Congress (\"Congress\") has from time to time considered legislation to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process.  At the state level, some states, including Texas, Oklahoma and New Mexico, where the drilling program is expected to operate, have adopted, and other states are considering adopting legal requirements that could impose new or more stringent permitting, public disclosure, or well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing activities. States could elect to prohibit high volume hydraulic fracturing altogether, following the approach taken by the State of New York in 2015. Local governments also may seek to adopt ordinances within their jurisdictions regulating the time, place and manner of drilling activities in general or hydraulic fracturing activities in particular. If new or more stringent federal, state, or local legal restrictions relating to the hydraulic fracturing process are adopted in areas where the drilling program operates, including, for example, on federal and American Indian lands, the partnership could incur potentially significant added costs to comply with such requirements, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development or production activities, and perhaps even be precluded from drilling wells. In December 2016, the EPA released its final report on the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources, concluding that \"water cycle\" activities associated with hydraulic fracturing may impact drinking water resources under some circumstances. \"Water cycle\" describes the use of water in hydraulic fracturing, from water withdrawals to the making of hydraulic fracturing fluids, through the mixing and injection of hydraulic fracturing fluids in oil and natural gas production wells, to the collection and disposal or reuse of produced water.. 18. Increased regulation and attention given to the hydraulic fracturing process could lead to greater opposition to oil and gas production activities using hydraulic fracturing techniques. Additional legislation or regulation could also lead to operational delays or increased operating costs for our customers in the production of oil and gas, including from the developing shale plays, or could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing. The adoption of any federal, state or local laws or the implementation of additional regulations regarding hydraulic fracturing could potentially cause a decrease in the completion of new oil and gas wells and an associated decrease in demand for our services and increased compliance costs and time, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition.. Regulatory initiatives relating to the protection of endangered or threatened species in the United States, in other countries where we operate, could have an adverse impact on our and our customers' ability to expand operations.. In the United States, the Endangered Species Act (the \"ESA\") restricts activities that may affect endangered or threatened species or their habitats. Similar protections are offered to migratory birds under the Migratory Bird Treaty Act (the \"MBTA\"). To the extent species that are listed under the ESA or similar state laws, or are protected under the MBTA, live in the areas where we or our customers operate, both our and our customers' abilities to conduct or expand operations and construct facilities could be limited or be forced to incur material additional costs.. The designation of previously unidentified endangered or threatened species could indirectly cause us to incur additional costs, cause our or our customers' operations to become subject to operating restrictions or bans, and limit future development activity in affected areas. In addition, as a result of a settlement approved by the United States for the District of Columbia in 2011, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service is required to make a determination of listing of numerous species as endangered or threatened under the Endangered Species Act prior to the completion of the agency's 2017 fiscal year. The designation of previously unprotected species as threatened or endangered in areas where we or our customers might conduct operations could result in limitations or prohibitions on our operations and could adversely impact our business.. We do not insure against all potential losses and could be seriously harmed by unexpected liabilities.. Our assets and operations are subject to inherent risks such as vehicle accidents, equipment defects, malfunctions and failures, as well as other incidents that result in releases or uncontrolled flows of gas or well fluids, fires, or explosions. These risks could expose us to substantial liability for personal injury, death, property damage, pollution, and other environmental damages. We do not insure all of our assets and the insurance we do obtain may be inadequate to cover our liabilities. Further, insurance covering the risks we face or in the amounts we desire may not be available in the future, or, if available, the premiums may not be commercially justifiable. If we were to incur substantial liability and such damages were not covered by insurance or were in excess of policy limits, or if we were to incur liability at a time when we did not maintain liability insurance, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, we do not maintain business interruption insurance. Please read \"Health, Safety, and Environmental Affairs Regulations\" for a description of how we are subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to protection of human health and environment.. We disclosed a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015, and if we have other material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting our business may be adversely affected.. As of December 31, 2015, management identified certain deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting relating to accounting for the recognition of aftermarket services revenues. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, that result in a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of a company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Although this material weakness was remediated during 2016, a future material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting could adversely impact our ability to provide timely and accurate information. If additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control occur in the future, we may not be able to timely or accurately report our results of operations or maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures. If we are unable to report financial information timely or accurately, or to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures, we could be subject to, among other things, regulatory or enforcement actions, securities litigation, debt rating agency. 19. downgrades or rating withdrawals, any one of which could adversely affect the valuation of our common units and our business prospects.. Our operations and reputation may be impaired if certain information technology systems fail to perform adequately or if we are the subject of a data breach or cyberattack.. The information technology systems of our general partner and TETRA are critically important to operating our business efficiently. We rely on these information technology systems to manage business data, communications, supply chain, customer invoicing, employee information, and other business processes. Our general partner outsources certain business process functions to TETRA and third-party providers and similarly relies on TETRA and these third-parties to maintain and store confidential information on their systems. The failure of these information technology systems to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business and could result in transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, and the loss of sales and customers, causing our business and results of operations to suffer.. Furthermore, these information technology systems may be vulnerable to security breaches beyond our control, including those involving cyberattacks using viruses, worms or other destructive software, process breakdowns, phishing or other malicious activities, or any combination of the foregoing. Such breaches could result in unauthorized access to information including customer, supplier, employee, or other company confidential data. We do not carry insurance against these risks, although our general partner invests in security technology, performs penetration tests from time to time, and designs our business processes to attempt to mitigate the risk of such breaches. While we believe these measures are generally effective, there can be no assurance that security breaches will not occur. Moreover, the development and maintenance of these measures requires continuous monitoring as technologies change and efforts to overcome security measures evolve. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, cybersecurity threats and incidents, none of which has been material to us to date. However, a successful breach or attack could have a material negative impact on our operations or business reputation and subject us to consequences such as litigation and direct costs associated with incident response.. Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us. The Series A Convertible Preferred Units issued in August 2016 and September 2016 are senior in right of distributions, liquidation and voting to the common units, and will result in the issuance of additional partnership common units in the future, resulting in dilution of our existing common unitholders' ownership interests, and such dilution is potentially unlimited.. Our partnership agreement does not limit the number of additional partnership common units that we may issue at any time without the approval of our common unitholders. In addition, subject to the provisions of the Series A Preferred Unit Purchase Agreements, we may issue an unlimited number of partnership units that are senior to the common units in right of distribution, liquidation, or voting. On August 8, 2016, we issued an aggregate of 4,374,454 of the Preferred Units for a cash purchase price of $11.43 per Preferred Unit (the \"Issue Price\"), resulting in total net proceeds, after deducting certain offering expenses, of $49.8 million. Additionally, on September 20, 2016, we issued an aggregate of 2,624,672 of Preferred Units for a cash purchase price of $11.43 per Preferred Unit, resulting in total net proceeds, after deducting certain offering expenses, of $29.0 million.. Pursuant to the Series A Convertible Unit Purchase Agreement dated August 8, 2016, our general partner executed the Second Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of the Partnership (the \"Amended and Restated Partnership Agreement\") to, among other things, authorize and establish the rights and preferences of the Preferred Units. The Preferred Units are a class of equity security that ranks senior to all classes or series of our equity securities with respect to distribution rights and rights upon liquidation. The holders of Preferred Units (each, a \"Preferred Unitholder\") receive quarterly distributions in kind in additional Preferred Units, equal to an annual rate of 11.00% of the Issue Price ($1.2573 per unit annualized), subject to certain adjustments, including adjustments related to any future issuances of common units below a set price, and any quarterly distributions on our common units in excess of $0.3775 per common unit. In the event we fail to pay in full any quarterly distribution in additional Preferred Units, then until such failure is cured we are prohibited from making any distributions on our common units. Beginning on March 8, 2017 and on the first Trading Day (as defined in the Amended and Restated Partnership Agreement) of each calendar month thereafter for a total of thirty months (each, a \"Conversion Date\"), the Preferred Units convert into common units representing limited partner interests in the partnership in an amount equal to, with respect to each Preferred Unitholder, the number of Preferred Units held by such Preferred Unitholder. 20. divided by the number of Conversion Dates remaining. On June 7, 2017, as permitted under the Amended and Restated Partnership Agreement, we elected to defer the monthly conversion of Preferred Units for each of the Conversion Dates during the three month period beginning July 2017. As a result, no Preferred Units were converted into common units during the three month period ended September 30, 2017, and future monthly conversions were increased beginning in October 2017. During 2017, conversions of the Preferred Units resulted in the issuance of 3.7 million common units. We anticipate that the number of common units that will be issued upon conversions of the Preferred Units during 2018 will increase, as monthly conversions are expected during the full year of 2018 and due to the three month deferral of conversions during 2017. We may, at our option, pay cash, or a combination of cash and common units, to the Preferred Unitholders instead of issuing common units on any Conversion Date, subject to certain restrictions as described in the Amended and Restated Partnership Agreement and the Credit Agreement.. The issuance by us of the Preferred Units, and the common units issued upon conversion thereof, will have the following effects:. • our previously existing common unitholders' proportionate ownership interests in us will decrease;. • the amount of cash available for distribution on each common unit may decrease;. • the relative voting power of our previously existing common unitholders will be diminished; and. • the market price of the common units may decline.. Our partnership agreement requires us to distribute all of the available cash that we generate each quarter after paying expenses and establishing prudent operating reserves, which could limit our ability to grow.. Our partnership agreement requires us to distribute all of the available cash we generate each quarter. Under the terms of our partnership agreement, the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution will be reduced by our operating expenses and the amount of cash reserves that our general partner establishes to provide for future operations, future capital expenditures, future debt service requirements and future cash distributions to our common unitholders. As a result, our general partner relies primarily upon external financing sources, including commercial bank borrowings and the issuance of debt and equity securities, as well as cash flows from operations to a certain extent, to fund our expansion capital expenditures. To the extent that we are unable to finance growth externally, this requirement significantly impairs our ability to grow. In addition, also as a result of this requirement, our growth may not be as fast as that of businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. To the extent that we issue additional units in connection with any expansion capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional units will decrease the amount we distribute on each outstanding unit.. On January 22, 2018, our general partner declared a cash distribution attributable to the quarter ended December 31, 2017 of $0.1875 per common unit. This distribution equates to a distribution of $0.75 per outstanding common unit, on an annualized basis. This cash distribution was paid on February 14, 2018 to all common unitholders of record as of the close of business on February 1, 2018. The amount of quarterly distributions is determined based on a variety of factors, including our estimates of cash needs to fund our future operating, investing, and debt service requirements. Our estimates of these future cash requirements are used in the determination of available cash, as defined in our Partnership Agreement. We will continue to monitor the uncertain levels of cash flows from operating activities and the levels of cash flows from investing activities necessary to maintain our equipment fleet, and use these estimates in the determination of the levels of our future quarterly distributions. There can be no assurance that our quarterly distributions will increase from this reduced amount per common unit, or that there will not be further decreases in the amount of distributions in the future.. TETRA controls our general partner, which has sole responsibility for conducting our business and managing our operations, and thereby controls us. TETRA has conflicts of interest, which may permit it to favor its own interests to our unitholders' detriment.. TETRA controls our general partner, and through the general partner controls us. Some of our general partner's directors are directors of TETRA or its affiliates that own our general partner. Therefore, conflicts of interest may arise between TETRA and its affiliates, including our general partner, on the one hand, and us and our common unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts of interest, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of TETRA and its affiliates over the interests of our common unitholders. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations:. 21. • neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires TETRA to pursue a business strategy that favors us. The directors and officers of TETRA and its affiliates have a fiduciary duty to make these decisions in the best interests of TETRA, which may be contrary to our interests;. • our general partner controls the interpretation and enforcement of contractual obligations between us and our affiliates, on the one hand, and TETRA, on the other hand, including provisions governing administrative services, acquisitions, and non-competition provisions;. • our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, including TETRA and its affiliates, in resolving conflicts of interest;. • our general partner has limited its liability and reduced its fiduciary duties to our common unitholders and us, and has also restricted the remedies available to our common unitholders for actions that, without the limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty;. • our general partner will determine the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, capital expenditures, borrowings, repayment of indebtedness, and issuances of additional partnership interests, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is available for distribution to our common unitholders;. • our general partner determines the amount and timing of any capital expenditures and whether a capital expenditure is a maintenance capital expenditure, which reduces operating surplus, or an expansion capital expenditure, which does not reduce operating surplus, and this determination can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our common unitholders;. • our general partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make incentive distributions;. • our partnership agreement permits us to distribute up to $15 million as operating surplus, even if it is generated from asset sales, non-working capital borrowings, or other sources that would otherwise constitute capital surplus. This cash may be used to fund distributions on the incentive distribution rights;. • our general partner determines which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us and TETRA will determine the allocation of shared overhead expenses;. • our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf;. • our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations and, in some circumstances, is entitled to be indemnified by us;. • our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants, or others to perform services for us; and. • our general partner may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to our general partner's incentive distribution rights without the approval of the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner or the common unitholders. This election may result in lower distributions to the common unitholders in certain situations.. Our reliance on TETRA for certain general and administrative support services and our limited ability to control certain costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Cost reimbursements due to our general partner and its affiliates for services provided, which will be determined by our general partner, will be substantial and will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders.. Pursuant to an Omnibus Agreement entered into between TETRA, our general partner and us, TETRA provides to us certain general and administrative services, including, without limitation, legal, accounting, treasury, insurance administration and claims processing and risk management, health, safety and environmental, information technology, human resources, credit, payroll, internal audit and tax services. Our ability to execute our growth strategy depends significantly upon TETRA's performance of these services. Our reliance on TETRA could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Additionally, TETRA will receive reimbursement for the provision of various general and administrative services for our benefit. Our general partner is also entitled to significant reimbursement for certain expenses it incurs on our behalf, including reimbursement for a portion of the cost of its employees who perform services for us. Payments for these services are substantial and reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our common unitholders. In addition, under Delaware partnership law, our general partner has unlimited liability for our obligations, such as our debts and environmental liabilities, except for our contractual obligations that are expressly made without recourse to our general partner. To the extent our general partner incurs obligations on our behalf, we are obligated to reimburse or indemnify it. If we are unable or unwilling to reimburse or. 22. indemnify our general partner, our general partner may take actions to cause us to make payments of these obligations and liabilities. Any such payments could reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution to our unitholders.. Our partnership agreement limits our general partner's fiduciary duties to our common unitholders and restricts the remedies available to our common unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty.. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that reduce the fiduciary standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty laws. For example, our partnership agreement:. • permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner. This entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and it has no duty or obligation to consider any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or any limited partner. Examples include the exercise of its limited call right, the exercise of its rights to transfer or vote the partnership units it owns, the exercise of its registration rights and its determination whether or not to consent to any merger or consolidation of the partnership or amendment to the partnership agreement;. • provides that our general partner will not have any liability to us or our common unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a general partner so long as it acted in good faith, meaning it believed the decision was in the best interests of our partnership;. • generally provides that affiliated transactions and resolutions of conflicts of interest not approved by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner acting in good faith and not involving a vote of our common unitholders must be on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties or must be \"fair and reasonable\" to us, as determined by our general partner in good faith and that, in determining whether a transaction or resolution is \"fair and reasonable,\" our general partner may consider the totality of the relationships between the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly advantageous or beneficial to us;. • provides that our general partner and its executive officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us, our limited partners or assignees for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our general partner or those other persons acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was criminal; and. • provides that in resolving conflicts of interest, it will be presumed that in making its decision our general partner acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or us, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption.. Our general partner may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to its incentive distribution rights, without the approval of the conflicts committee of its board of directors or our common unitholders. This could result in lower distributions to our common unitholders.. Our general partner has the right, at any time when it has received incentive distributions at the highest level to which it is entitled (48.0%) for each of the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters, to reset the initial target distribution levels at higher levels based on our distributions at the time of the exercise of the reset election. Following a reset election by our general partner, the minimum quarterly distribution will be adjusted to equal the reset minimum quarterly distribution, and the target distribution levels will be reset to correspondingly higher levels based on percentage increases above the reset minimum quarterly distribution. If our general partner elects to reset the target distribution levels, it will be entitled to receive a number of common units and will retain its then-current general partner interest. The number of common units to be issued to our general partner will equal the number of common units that would have entitled the holder to an average aggregate quarterly cash distribution in the prior two quarters equal to the average of the distributions to our general partner on the incentive distribution rights in the prior two quarters. We anticipate that our general partner would exercise this reset right in order to facilitate acquisitions or internal growth projects that would not be sufficiently accretive to cash distributions per common unit without such reset. It is possible, however, that our general partner could exercise this reset election at a time when it is experiencing, or expects to experience, declines in the cash distributions it receives related to its incentive distribution rights and may, therefore, desire to be issued common units rather than retain the right to receive incentive distributions based on the initial target distribution levels. As a result, a reset election may cause our common unitholders to experience a reduction in the amount of cash distributions that our common unitholders. 23. would have otherwise received had we not issued new common units to our general partner in connection with resetting the target distribution levels.. Our common unitholders have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our general partner or its directors.. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, our unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management's decisions regarding our business. Unitholders will have no right to elect our general partner or its board of directors. The board of directors of our general partner will be chosen indirectly by TETRA through its subsidiary that is the sole shareholder of our general partner. Furthermore, if our unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they will have little ability to remove our general partner. Due to these limitations, the price at which the common units will trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price.. Even if our common unitholders are dissatisfied, they cannot remove our general partner without its consent.. Our common unitholders are currently unable to remove our general partner without its consent because our general partner and its affiliates own sufficient units to prevent its removal. The vote of the holders of at least 66.7% of all outstanding common units is required to remove our general partner. As of March 1, 2018, our general partner and its affiliates, owns 40% of our aggregate outstanding common units.. We can issue an unlimited number of partnership units in the future, including units that are senior in right of distributions, liquidation and voting to the common units, without the approval of our common unitholders, and our general partner may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to its incentive distribution rights, without the approval of the conflicts committee of its board of directors or our common unitholders, each of which would dilute our common unitholders' existing ownership interests.. Our partnership agreement does not limit the number of additional partnership units that we may issue at any time without the approval of our common unitholders. In addition, we may issue an unlimited number of partnership units that are senior to the common units in right of distribution, liquidation, or voting. Our general partner also has the right, at any time when it has received incentive distributions at the highest level to which it is entitled (48.0%) for each of the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters, to reset the initial target distribution levels at higher levels based on our distributions at the time of the exercise of the reset election. If our general partner elects to reset the target distribution levels, it will be entitled to receive a number of common units and will retain its then-current general partner interest.. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects:. • our previously existing common unitholders' proportionate ownership interests in us will decrease;. • the amount of cash available for distribution on each common unit may decrease;. • the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase;. • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding common unitholders may be diminished; and. • the market price of the common units may decline.. Control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without common unitholder consent.. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of our unitholders. Furthermore, our partnership agreement does not restrict the ability of TETRA or its subsidiaries from transferring all or a portion of its indirect ownership interest in our general partner to a third party. The new owners of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and executive officers of our general partner with its own choices and thereby influence the decisions taken by the board of directors and executive officers.. 24. Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our common units, other than our general partner and its affiliates, including TETRA. Accordingly, such unitholders' voting rights may be limited.. Unitholders' voting rights are further restricted by the partnership agreement provision providing that any partnership units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of partnership units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates, including TETRA, its transferees and persons who acquired such partnership units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our general partner, cannot vote on any matter. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of our common unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions.. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require our unitholders to sell common units at an undesirable time or price.. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 90% of the common units, our general partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than the then-current market price. As a result, our unitholders may be required to sell common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on their investment. Our unitholders may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of common units. As of March 1, 2018, our general partner and its affiliates own an aggregate of 40% of our common units.. Our common unitholders' liability may not be limited if a court finds that common unitholder action constitutes control of our business.. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to our general partner. Our partnership is organized under Delaware law, and we conduct business in a number of other states. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some of the other states in which we do business. Our common unitholders could be liable for any and all of our obligations as if they were a general partner if:. • a court or government agency determined that we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state's partnership statute; or. • our common unitholders' right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace our general partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement, or to take other actions under our partnership agreement constitutes \"control\" of our business.. Our common unitholders may have liability to repay distributions that were wrongfully distributed to them.. Under certain circumstances, our common unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, we may not make a distribution to our common unitholders if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of the impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Substituted limited partners are liable for the obligations of the assignor to make contributions to the partnership that are known to the substituted limited partner at the time it became a limited partner and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from the partnership agreement. Liabilities to partners because of their partnership interest and liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted.. While our partnership agreement requires us to distribute all of our available cash, our partnership agreement, including provisions requiring us to make cash distributions contained therein, may be amended.. While our partnership agreement requires us to distribute all of our available cash, our partnership agreement, including provisions requiring us to make cash distributions contained therein, may be amended. Our partnership agreement can be amended with the consent of our general partner and the approval of a majority of the outstanding common units (including common units held by affiliates of TETRA). As of March 1, 2018, our general partner and its affiliates own an aggregate of 40% of our common units.. 25. We are exempt from certain corporate governance requirements that provide additional protection to stockholders of other public companies.. Companies listed on the NASDAQ are required to meet the high standards of corporate governance, as set forth in the NASDAQ Listing Rules. These requirements generally do not apply to limited partnerships or to a \"controlled company,\" within the meaning of the NASDAQ rules. We are a limited partnership and a \"controlled company,\" within the meaning of the NASDAQ rules, and, as a result, we rely on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements that provide protection to stockholders of other public companies.. Tax Risks to Common Unitholders. Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If the IRS were to treat us as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, then our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced.. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in the common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Despite the fact that we are a limited partnership under Delaware law, we will be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes unless we satisfy a \"qualifying income\" requirement. Based upon our current operations, we believe that we satisfy the qualifying income requirement. Failing to meet the qualifying income requirement or a change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity.. If we were treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would pay U.S. federal income tax on all of our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%, decreasing to 21% beginning in 2018, and would likely pay additional state and local income tax at varying rates. Distributions to our unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to our unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units.. We have subsidiaries that are treated as corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes and are subject to corporate-level income taxes.. We conduct a portion of our operations through subsidiaries that are organized as corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes, including our CSI subsidiary. We may elect to conduct additional operations through these corporate subsidiaries in the future. These corporate subsidiaries are subject to U.S. corporate-level tax, which reduces the cash available for distribution to us and, in turn, to our unitholders. If the IRS were to successfully assert that these corporations have more tax liability than we anticipate or legislation were enacted that increased the corporate tax rate, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be further reduced. Distributions from any such corporate subsidiary will generally be treated as dividend income to the extent of the current and accumulated earnings and profits of such corporate subsidiary. An individual unitholder's share of dividend income from any corporate subsidiary would constitute portfolio income that could not be offset by the unitholder's share of our other losses or deductions.. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our common units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial, or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis.. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. From time to time, members of the U.S. Congress have proposed and considered substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that would affect publicly traded partnerships. Although there is no current legislative proposal, a prior legislative proposal would have eliminated the qualifying income exception to the treatment of all publicly traded partnerships as corporations upon which we relay for our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. Any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws may be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible to meet the exception for certain publicly traded partnerships to be treated as partnerships for. 26. U.S. federal income tax purposes. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes or other proposals will ultimately be enacted. Any similar of future legislative changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. You are urged to consult with your own tax advisor with respect to the status of regulatory or administrative developments and proposals and their potential effect on your investment in our common units.. In addition, on January 24, 2017, final regulations regarding which activities give rise to qualifying income within the meaning of Section 7704 of the Code (the \"Final Regulations\") were published in the Federal Register. The Final Regulations are effective s of January 19, 2017, and apply to taxable yes beginning on or after January 19, 2017. We do not believe the Final Regulations affect our ability to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. If we were subjected to a material amount of additional entity-level taxation by individual states, it would reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders.. Changes in current state law may subject us to additional entity-level taxation by individual states. Because of state budget deficits and other reasons, several states have been evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise, and other forms of taxation. For example, we are subject to an entity-level Texas franchise tax. Imposition of any such taxes may substantially reduce the cash available for distribution to our unitholders.. Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to additional amounts of entity-level taxation, for U.S. federal, state, or local tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us.. Although we are not subject to U.S. federal income tax other than with respect to our operating U.S. subsidiaries that are treated as corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes, certain of our foreign operations are subject to certain non-U.S. taxes. If a taxing authority were to successfully assert that we have more tax liability than we anticipate or legislation were enacted that increased the taxes to which we are subject, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders could be further reduced.. Approximately 10.2% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017, was generated in non-U.S. jurisdictions, primarily Mexico, Canada, and Argentina. Our non-U.S. operations and subsidiaries are generally subject to income, withholding, and other taxes in the non-U.S. jurisdictions in which they are organized or from which they receive income, reducing the amount of cash available for distribution. In computing our tax obligation in these non-U.S. jurisdictions, we are required to take various tax accounting and reporting positions on matters that are not entirely free from doubt and for which we have not received rulings from the governing tax authorities, such as whether withholding taxes will be reduced by the application of certain tax treaties. Upon review of these positions the applicable authorities may not agree with our positions. A successful challenge by a tax authority could result in additional taxes being imposed on us, reducing the cash available for distribution to our unitholders. In addition, changes in our operations or ownership could result in higher than anticipated taxes being imposed in jurisdictions in which we are organized or from which we receive income and further reducing the cash available for distribution. Although these taxes may be properly characterized as foreign income taxes, our unitholders may not be able to credit them against the liability for U.S. federal income taxes on the unitholders' share of our earnings. In addition, our operations in countries in which we operate now or in the future may involve risks associated with the legal structure used and the taxation on assets transferred into a particular country. Tax laws of non-U.S. jurisdictions are subject to potential legislative, judicial, or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. Any such changes may result in additional taxes above the amounts we currently anticipate and further reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders.. If the IRS contests the U.S. federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted, and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders.. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take, and the IRS's positions may ultimately be sustained. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our. 27. costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner, because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution.. Legislation applicable to partnership tax years beginning after 2017 alters the procedures for auditing large partnerships and for assessing and collecting taxes due (including penalties and interest) as a result of a partnership-level federal income tax audit. Under these new rules, unless we are eligible to (and do) elect to issue revised information statements to our partners with respect to an audited and adjusted partnership tax return, the IRS may assess and collect taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) directly from us in the year in which the audit is completed. If we are required to pay taxes, penalties and interest as a result of audit adjustments, cash available for distribution to our unitholders may be substantially reduced. In addition, because payment would be due for the taxable year in which the audit is completed, unitholders during that taxable year would bear the expense of the adjustment even if they were not unitholders during the audited tax year.. Unitholders' share of our income will be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us.. Because our unitholders will be treated as partners to whom we will allocate taxable income that could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, a unitholder's allocable share of our taxable income will be taxable to the unitholder, which may require the payment of U.S. federal income taxes, and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on the unitholder's share of our taxable income, even if the unitholder receives no cash distributions from us. Unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income.. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected.. If our unitholders sell common units, they will recognize a gain or loss for U.S. federal income tax purposes equal to the difference between the amount realized and their tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of their allocable share of our net taxable income decrease their tax basis in that common unit, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the units our unitholders sell will, in effect, become taxable income to our unitholders if they sell such units at a price greater than their tax basis in those units, even if the price they receive is less than their original cost. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder's share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if our unitholders sell their units, they may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash the unitholders receive from the sale.. A substantial portion of the amount realized from a unitholder's sale of our units, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income to such unitholder due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture.  Thus, a unitholder may recognize both ordinary income and capital loss from the sale of units if the amount realized on a sale of such units is less than such unitholder's adjusted basis in the units.  Net capital loss may only offset capital gains and, in the case of individuals, up to $3,000 of ordinary income per year.  In the taxable period in which a unitholder sells its units, such unitholder may recognize ordinary income from our allocations of income and gain to such unitholder prior to the sale and from recapture items that generally cannot be offset by any capital loss recognized upon the sale of units.. Unitholders may be subject to limitation on their ability to deduct interest expense incurred by us.. In general, we are entitled to a deduction for interest paid or accrued on indebtedness properly allocable to our trade or business during our taxable year. However, under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, our deduction for \"business interest\" is limited to the sum of our business interest income and 30% of our \"adjusted taxable income.\" For the purposes of this limitation, our adjusted taxable income is computed without regard to any business interest expense or business interest income, and in the case of taxable years beginning before January 1, 2022, any deduction allowable for depreciation, amortization, or depletion. If this limitation were to apply with respect to a taxable year, it could result in an increase in the taxable income allocable to a unitholder for such taxable year without any corresponding increase in the cash available for distribution to such unitholder.. 28. Tax-exempt entities face unique tax issues from owning our common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them.. Investment in our common units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from U.S. federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Further, with respect to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, a tax-exempt entity with more than one unrelated trades or businesses (including by attribution from investment in a partnership such as ours) is required to compute the unrelated business taxable income of such tax-exempt entity separately with respect to each such trade or business (including for purposes of determining any net operating loss deduction). As a result, for years beginning after December 31, 2017, it may not be possible for tax-exempt entities to utilize losses from an investment in our partnership to offset unrelated business taxable income from another unrelated trade or business and vice versa. Tax-exempt entities should consult a tax advisor before investing in our common units.. Non-U.S. Unitholders will be subject to U.S. taxes and withholding with respect to their income and gain from owning our units.. Non-U.S. unitholders are generally taxed and subject to income tax filing requirements by the United States on income effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business (\"effectively connected income\"). Income allocated to our unitholders and any gain from the sale of our units will generally be considered to be \"effectively connected\" with a U.S. trade or business.  As a result, distributions to a Non-U.S. unitholder will be subject to withholding at the highest applicable effective tax rate and a Non-U.S. unitholder who sells or otherwise disposes of a unit will also be subject to U.S. federal income tax on the gain realized from the sale or disposition of that unit.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act imposes a withholding obligation of 10% of the amount realized upon a Non-U.S. unitholder's sale or exchange of an interest in a partnership that is engaged in a U.S. trade or business. However, due to challenges of administering a withholding obligation applicable to open market trading and other complications, the IRS has temporarily suspended the application of this withholding rule to open market transfers of interests in publicly traded partnerships pending promulgation of regulations or other guidance that resolves the challenges.  It is not clear if or when such regulations or other guidance will be issued.  Non-U.S. unitholders should consult a tax advisor before investing in our common units.. We will treat each purchaser of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units.. Due to a number of factors, including our inability to match transferors and transferees of common units, we have adopted depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from the sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders' tax returns.. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss, and deduction for U.S. federal income tax purposes between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge aspects of our proration method and could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss, and deduction among our unitholders.. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss, and deduction for U.S. federal income tax purposes between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. Although final Treasury Regulations allow publicly traded partnerships to use a similar monthly simplifying convention to allocate tax items among transferor and transferee unitholders, these regulations do not specifically authorize all aspects of the proration method we have adopted. If the IRS were to successfully challenge our proration method, we may be required to change our allocation of items of income, gain, loss, and deduction among our unitholders.. 29. Taxable income from our non-U.S. businesses is not eligible for the 20% deduction for qualified publicly traded partnership income.. Pursuant to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Acts, a unitholder is generally allowed a deduction equal to 20% of our \"qualified publicly traded partnership income\" that is allocated to such unitholder. For purposes of the deduction, the term qualified publicly traded partnership income includes the net amount of such unitholder's allocable share of our income that is effectively connected to our U.S. trade or business activities. Because our non-U.S. business operations earn income that is not effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business, unitholders may not apply the 20% deduction for qualified publicly traded partnership income to that portion of our income.. A unitholder whose units are loaned to a \"short seller\" to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of those units. If so, the unitholder would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition.. Because a unitholder whose units are loaned to a \"short seller\" to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units, the unitholder may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan to the short seller, and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss, or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder, and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to consult a tax advisor to discuss whether it is advisable to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their units.. We have adopted certain valuation methodologies in determining a unitholder's allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction. The IRS may challenge these methodologies or the resulting allocations, and such a challenge could adversely affect the value of our common units.. In determining the items of income, gain, loss and deduction allocable to our unitholders, we must routinely determine the fair market value of our assets. Although we may from time to time consult with professional appraisers regarding valuation matters, we make many fair market value estimates ourselves using a methodology based on the market value of our common units as a means to determine the fair market value of our assets. The IRS may challenge these valuation methods and the resulting allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the timing or amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain from our unitholders' sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders' tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions.. Unitholders will likely be subject to non-U.S., state and local taxes, and return filing requirements in jurisdictions where they do not live as a result of investing in our common units.. In addition to U.S. federal income taxes, unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including non-U.S., state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance, or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or control property now or in the future, even if they do not live in any of those jurisdictions. Unitholders will likely be required to file non-U.S., state, and local income tax returns and pay non-U.S., state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. In the United States, we own assets and conduct business in many states, most of which currently impose a personal income tax on individuals and an income tax on corporations and other entities. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own or control assets or conduct business in additional jurisdictions that impose a personal income tax.. Unitholders may be subject to tax in one or more non-U.S. jurisdictions, including Canada, Mexico, Argentina, and Australia, as a result of owning our common units if, under the laws of any such country, we are considered to be carrying on business there. If unitholders are subject to tax in any such country, they may be required to file a tax return with, and pay taxes to, that country based on their allocable share of our income. We. 30. may be required to reduce distributions to unitholders on account of any withholding obligations imposed upon us by that country in respect of such allocation to the unitholders. In addition, the United States may not allow a tax credit for any foreign income taxes that unitholders directly or indirectly incur.. The recently passed comprehensive U.S. federal tax reform bill could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Act\"), which significantly reforms the Code. The Act, among other things, contains significant changes to business taxation, including a permanent reduction of the corporate income tax rate, a partial limitation on the deductibility of business interest expense, limitation of the deduction for certain net operating losses to 80% of current year taxable income, an indefinite carryforward of certain net operating losses, immediate deductions for certain new investments instead of deductions for depreciation expense over time, a \"transition\" tax with respect to certain non-U.S. earnings, other additional new taxes with respect to non-U.S. earnings and payments made or accrued to non-U.S. entities, and the modification or repeal of many business deductions and credits. We continue to examine the impact of the Act, and as its overall impact is uncertain, we note that the Act could adversely affect our business and financial condition. It is the responsibility of each unitholder to file all U.S. federal, state, and local tax returns and non-U.S. tax returns."
