[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. The risks set forth in the following risk factors could have a materially adverse effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations or liquidity, and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the Company's forward-looking statements. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to the Company or that the Company currently does not deem to be material also may materially impact the Company's financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.. New legislation or regulatory changes could impact the Company's earnings or restrict its ability to independently negotiate prices.. Legislation passed by Congress, new regulations issued by federal agencies or executive orders issued by the President of the United States could significantly affect the revenues, costs and profitability of the Company's business. For instance, several of the proposals under consideration by the STB could have a significant negative impact on the Company's ability to negotiate prices for the value of rail services provided and meet service standards, which could force a reduction in capital spending. In addition, statutes imposing price constraints or affecting rail-to-rail competition could adversely affect the Company's profitability.. Government regulation and compliance risks may adversely affect the Company's operations and financial results.. The Company is subject to the jurisdiction of various regulatory agencies, including the STB, FRA, PHMSA, TSA, EPA and other state, provincial and federal regulatory agencies for a variety of economic, health, safety, labor, environmental, tax, legal and other matters. New or modified rules or regulations by these agencies could increase the Company's operating costs or reduce operating efficiencies and impact service performance.  For example, the RSIA mandates that the installation of PTC hardware be completed by December 31, 2018 and, assuming certain conditions are met, requires that the PTC system be fully operational by December 31, 2020 on main lines that carry certain hazardous materials and on lines that have commuter or passenger operations. Although CSX remains on track to meet this regulatory requirement, noncompliance with these and other applicable laws or regulations could erode public confidence in the Company and can subject the Company to fines, penalties and other legal or regulatory sanctions.. The Company's business strategies may not achieve the anticipated objectives.. The implementation of the Company's business strategies could result in operational disruptions, loss of existing customers, regulatory issues and other adverse consequences. If these strategies fail to achieve the anticipated benefits or take longer to implement than expected, the Company's operations and financial results may be adversely affected.. Failure to complete negotiations on collective bargaining agreements could result in strikes and/or work stoppages.. Most of CSX's employees are represented by labor unions and are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Approximately 70 percent of these agreements are bargained for nationally by the National Carriers Conference Committee and negotiated over the course of several years and previously have not resulted in any extended work stoppages. Under the Railway Labor Act's procedures (which include mediation, cooling-off periods and the possibility of an intervention of the U.S. President), during negotiations neither party may take action until the procedures are exhausted. If, however, CSX is unable to negotiate acceptable agreements, or if terms of existing agreements are disputed, the employees covered by the Railway Labor Act could strike, which could result in loss of business and increased operating costs as a result of higher wages or benefits paid to union members. Additionally, from time to time, the Company enters into CSX-specific, or \"local\", bargaining agreements which could also be critical to the Company and its new business strategies.. CSX 2017 Form 10-K p.. 8. CSX CORPORATION"
