[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Many statements contained or incorporated by reference in this Report are forward-looking in nature. These statements are based on our current plans, intentions or expectations, and actual results could differ materially as we cannot guarantee that we will achieve these plans, intentions or expectations. See \" -  Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.\" Forward-looking statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including those specifically identified below. The Company cautions you not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. Additional factors not presently known to the Company, or that the Company does not currently believe to be material, may also cause actual results to differ materially from expectations. Except as may be required by law, the Company undertakes no obligation to update or alter these forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.. 23. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. We may not be able to obtain confirmation of the Plan.. With regard to any proposed plan of reorganization under chapter 11, a debtor seeking confirmation of a plan may not receive the requisite acceptances to confirm such plan. If the requisite acceptances of our Plan are received, we intend to seek confirmation of the Plan by the Bankruptcy Court. If the requisite acceptances of our Plan are not received from all classes of voting creditors, we may nevertheless seek confirmation of the Plan notwithstanding the existence of a dissenting class or classes. The Bankruptcy Court may confirm the Plan over the objection of a class of creditors pursuant to the provisions of the Bankruptcy Code if the plan satisfies section 1129(b) of the Bankruptcy Code. To confirm a plan over the objection of a dissenting class, the Bankruptcy Court also must find that at least one impaired class (which cannot be an \"insider\" class) has accepted the plan.. Even if the requisite acceptances of a proposed plan are received, the Bankruptcy Court is not obligated to confirm the plan as proposed. A dissenting holder of a claim against us could challenge the balloting procedures as not being in compliance with the Bankruptcy Code, which could mean that the results of the balloting may be invalid. If the Bankruptcy Court determined that the balloting procedures were appropriate and the results were valid, the Bankruptcy Court could still decline to confirm the Plan, if the Bankruptcy Court found that any of the statutory requirements for confirmation had not been met.. If our Plan is not confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court, (a) we may not be able to reorganize our businesses; (b) the distributions that holders of claims ultimately would receive, if any, with respect to their claims are uncertain; and (c) there is no assurance that we will be able to successfully develop, execute, confirm, and consummate an alternative plan that will be acceptable to the Bankruptcy Court and the holders of claims. It is also possible that third parties may seek and obtain approval from the Bankruptcy Court to terminate or shorten the exclusivity period during which only we may propose and confirm a plan of reorganization.. Our emergence from chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code is not assured.. While we expect to emerge from chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code, there can be no assurance that we will successfully reorganize or when this reorganization will occur, irrespective of our obtaining confirmation of the Plan.. Indebtedness may adversely affect Reorganized Cumulus operations and financial condition.. According to the terms and conditions of the Plan, upon confirmation, Reorganized Cumulus is expected to have outstanding indebtedness of approximately $1.3 billion under the New Term Loan.. Reorganized Cumulus's ability to service its debt obligations will depend upon, among other things, its future operating performance. These factors depend partly on economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond Reorganized Cumulus's control. Reorganized Cumulus may not be able to generate sufficient cash from operations to meet its debt service obligations as well as fund necessary capital expenditures. In addition, if Reorganized Cumulus needs to refinance its debt, obtain additional financing or sell assets or equity, it may not be able to do so on commercially reasonable terms, if at all.. Any default under the New First Lien Debt could adversely affect our growth, financial condition, results of operations, the value of our equity and ability to make payments on such debt. Reorganized Cumulus may incur significant additional debt in the future.. We may not be able to achieve our projected financial results.. The financial projections that we set forth represented management's best estimate of our future financial performance based on the information that was available to management at the time of the estimate. The estimates provided include information regarding future operations and the U.S. and world economies in our particular industry. Our actual financial results may differ significantly from the projections and, as such, could impact the Plan and confirmation of the Plan. If we do not achieve our projected financial results, the trading prices of our Reorganized Common Equity may be negatively affected, which could in turn prevent us from obtaining additional liquidity in the event we lack sufficient liquidity to continue operating as planned after the effective date of the Plan. Moreover, the financial condition and results of operations of Reorganized Cumulus from and after the effective date of the Plan may not be comparable to the financial condition or results of operations reflected in our historical financial statements.. 24. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. The New Term Loan Agreement is expected to contain certain restrictions and limitations that could significantly affect Reorganized Cumulus's ability to operate its business, as well as significantly affect its liquidity.. The New Term Loan Agreement is expected to contain a number of significant covenants that could adversely affect Reorganized Cumulus's ability to operate its businesses, as well as significantly affect its liquidity, and therefore could adversely affect Reorganized Cumulus's results of operations. These covenants are expected to restrict (subject to certain exceptions) Reorganized Cumulus's ability to: incur additional indebtedness; grant liens; consummate mergers, acquisitions, consolidations, liquidations and dissolutions; sell assets; make investments, loans and advances; make payments and modifications to subordinated and other material debt instruments; enter into transactions with affiliates; consummate sale-leaseback transactions; change its fiscal year; enter into hedging arrangements; allow third parties to manage its stations, and sell substantially all of the stations' programming or advertising; transfer or assign FCC licenses to third parties; and change its lines of business.. The breach of any covenants or obligations in the New Term Loan, not otherwise waived or amended, could result in a default under the New Term Loan Agreement and could trigger acceleration of those obligations. Any default under the New Term Loan could adversely affect Reorganized Cumulus's growth, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make payments on debt.. Upon our emergence from bankruptcy, the composition of our board of directors will change significantly.. Under the Plan, the composition of our board of directors will change significantly. The Restructuring Support Agreement contemplates upon emergence, the board of directors will be comprised of seven directors. The Consenting Creditors will designate six members in the aggregate, and the remaining director will be the President and Chief Executive Officer of Reorganized Cumulus. Accordingly, six of our seven directors are expected to be new to the Company. The new directors are likely to have different backgrounds, experiences and perspectives from those individuals who previously served on our board of directors and, thus, may have different views on the issues that will determine the future of the Company. As a result, the future strategy and plans of the Company may differ materially from those of the past.. The pursuit of the bankruptcy filing has consumed and will continue to consume a substantial portion of the time and attention of our management, which may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations, and we may face increased levels of employee attrition.. Leading up to and following commencement of the chapter 11 cases, our management was required to spend a significant amount of time and effort focusing on the filings. This diversion of attention may materially adversely affect the conduct of our business, and, as a result, our financial condition and results of operations, particularly if the Plan is not confirmed. During the continued pendency of the chapter 11 cases, our employees are facing considerable distraction and uncertainty and we may experience increased levels of employee attrition. A loss of key personnel or material erosion of employee morale could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet customer expectations, thereby adversely affecting our business and results of operations. In addition, we could experience losses of customers who may be concerned about our long-term viability.. Operating in bankruptcy for a long period of time may harm our business.. Our future results will be dependent upon the successful implementation of the Plan. A long period of operations under Bankruptcy Court protection could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. The longer the proceedings related to the Bankruptcy Filings continue, the more likely it is that customers and suppliers will lose confidence in our ability to reorganize our business successfully and will seek to establish alternative commercial relationships. So long as the proceedings related to these cases continue, we will be required to incur substantial costs for professional fees and other expenses associated with the administration of the Bankruptcy Filings, including the cost of litigation.. Our shares of common stock are not listed for trading on a national securities exchange.. Our Class A common stock currently trades on the OTC Pink Sheets maintained by the OTC Markets Group, Inc. (the \"OTC Market\") and is not listed for trading on a national securities exchange. Investments in securities trading on the OTC Market are generally less liquid than investments in securities trading on a national securities exchange.. 25. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. The success of our business is dependent upon advertising revenues, which are seasonal and cyclical, and also fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control.. Our main source of revenue is the sale of advertising. Our ability to sell advertising depends on, among other things:. • economic conditions in the areas where our stations are located and in the nation as a whole;. • national and local demand for radio advertising;. • the popularity of the programming offered by our stations;. • changes in the population demographics in the areas where our stations are located;. • local and national advertising price fluctuations, which can be affected by the availability of programming, the popularity of programming, and the relative supply of and demand for commercial advertising;. • the capability and effectiveness of our sales organization;. • our competitors' activities, including increased competition from other advertising-based mediums;. • decisions by advertisers to withdraw or delay planned advertising expenditures for any reason; and. • other factors beyond our control.. Our operations and revenues also tend to be seasonal in nature, with generally lower revenue generated in the first quarter of the year and generally higher revenue generated in the second and fourth quarters of the year. The seasonality of our business reflects the adult orientation of our formats and relationship between advertising purchases on these formats and the retail cycle. This seasonality causes and will likely continue to cause a variation in our quarterly operating results. Such variations could have a material effect on the timing of our cash flows. In addition, our revenues tend to fluctuate between years, consistent with, among other things, increased advertising expenditures in even-numbered years by political candidates, political parties and special interest groups. This political spending typically is heaviest during the fourth quarter.. We operate in a very competitive business environment and a decrease in our ratings or market share would adversely affect our revenues.. The radio broadcasting industry is very competitive. The success of each of our stations depends largely upon rates it can charge for its advertising which, in turn, depends on, among other things, the number of local advertising competitors and the overall demand for advertising within individual markets. These conditions are subject to change and highly susceptible to both micro- and macro-economic conditions.. Audience ratings and market shares fluctuate, and any adverse change in a particular market could have a material adverse effect on ratings and, consequently, the revenue of stations located in that market. While we already compete with other stations with comparable programming formats in many of our markets, any one of our stations could suffer a reduction in ratings or revenue and could require increased promotion and other expenses, and, consequently, could experience reduced operating results, if:. • another radio station in the market were to convert its programming format to a format similar to our station or launch aggressive promotional campaigns;. • a new station were to adopt a competitive format;. • we experience increased competition from non-radio sources;. • there is a shift in population, demographics, audience tastes or other factors beyond our control;. • an existing competitor were to strengthen its operations; or. • any one or all of our stations were unable to maintain or increase advertising revenue or market share for any other reasons.. The Telecommunications Act of 1996 (\"Telecom Act\") opened up markets to competition by removing regulatory barriers to entry. The Telecom Act may allow for the further consolidation of ownership of radio broadcasting stations in markets in which we operate or may operate in the future, which could further increase competition in these markets. In addition, some competing owners may be larger and have substantially more financial and other resources than we do, which could provide them with certain advantages in competing against us. The lifting of cross ownership rules by the FCC in 2018 further removed barriers to competition from local media companies who might purchase radio station in our markets. As a result of all the foregoing, there can be no assurance that the competitive environment will not affect us, and that any one or all of our stations will be able to maintain or increase advertising revenue market share.. 26. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. The loss of affiliation agreements by our radio networks could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We have approximately 8,000 broadcast radio stations affiliated with our Westwood One network. Westwood One receives advertising inventory from its affiliated stations, either in the form of stand-alone advertising time within a specified time period or commercials inserted by its radio networks into their programming. In addition, primarily with respect to satellite radio providers, we receive a fee for providing such programming. The loss of network affiliation agreements by Westwood One could adversely affect our results of operations by reducing the advertising inventory available for our network programming and, therefore, its attractiveness to advertisers. Renewals of such agreements on less favorable terms may also adversely affect our results of operations through reductions of advertising revenue or increases expenses.. We must continue to respond to the rapid changes in technology, services and standards that characterize our industry in order to remain competitive. Our failure to timely or appropriately respond to any such changes could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations.. The radio broadcasting industry is subject to technological change, evolving industry standards and the emergence of other media technologies and services with which we compete for listeners and advertising dollars. We may not have the resources to acquire and deploy other technologies or to create or introduce new services that could effectively compete with these other technologies. Competition arising from other technologies or regulatory change may have a material adverse effect on us, and on the radio broadcasting industry as a whole. Various other audio technologies and services have been developed which compete for listeners and advertising dollars traditionally spent on radio advertising including:. • personal digital audio and video devices (e.g. smart phones, tablets);. • satellite delivered digital radio services that offer numerous programming channels such as Sirius Satellite Radio;. • audio programming by internet content providers, internet radio stations such as Pandora, cable systems, direct broadcast satellite systems and other digital audio broadcast formats;. • low power FM radio stations, which are non-commercial FM radio broadcast outlets that serve small, localized areas;. • applications that permit users to listen to programming on a time-delayed basis and to fast-forward through programming and/or advertisements (e.g. podcasts); and. • search engine and e-commerce websites where a significant portion of their revenues are derived from advertising dollars such as Google and Yelp.. These or other new technologies have the potential to change the means by which advertisers can reach target audiences most effectively. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that competition arising from these or other technologies or regulatory change may have on the radio broadcasting industry as a whole.. Disruptions or security breaches of our information technology infrastructure could interfere with our operations, compromise client information and expose us to liability, possibly causing our business and reputation to suffer.. Any internal technology error or failure impacting systems hosted internally or externally, or any large scale external interruption in technology infrastructure we depend on, such as power, telecommunications or the Internet, may disrupt our technology network. Any individual, sustained or repeated failure of technology could negatively impact our operations and customer service and result in increased costs or reduced revenues. Our technology systems and related data also may be vulnerable to a variety of sources of interruption as a result of events beyond our control, including natural disasters, terrorist attacks, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, hackers and other security issues. While we have in place, and continue to invest in, technology security initiatives and disaster recovery plans, these measures may not be adequate or implemented properly to prevent a business disruption and its adverse financial impact and consequences to our business's reputation.. In addition, as a part of our ordinary business operations, we may collect and store sensitive data, including personal information of our clients, listeners and employees. The secure operation of the networks and systems on which this type of information is stored, processed and maintained is critical to our business operations and strategy. Any compromise of our technology systems resulting from attacks by hackers or breaches as a result of employee error or malfeasance could result in the loss, disclosure, misappropriation of or access to clients', listeners', employees' or business partners' information. Any such loss, disclosure, misappropriation or access could result in legal claims or proceedings, significant liability or regulatory penalties under laws protecting the privacy of personal information, disrupt operations and damage our reputation, any or all of which could have a material adverse affect our business.. 27. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. We have written off, and could in the future be required to write off a significant portion of the fair value of our FCC licenses and goodwill, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. As of December 31, 2017, our FCC licenses and goodwill comprised 66.0% of our assets. Each year, and more frequently on an interim basis if appropriate, we are required by Accounting Standards Codification Topic 350, Intangibles  -  Goodwill and Other, to assess the fair value of our FCC broadcast licenses and goodwill to determine whether the carrying value of those assets is impaired. Significant judgments are required to estimate the fair value of reporting units including estimating future cash flows, near-term and long-term revenue growth, and determining appropriate discount rates, among other assumptions. During the year ended December 31, 2017, we recorded an impairment charge of $335.9 million on our FCC licenses. During the year ended December 31, 2016, we recorded an impairment charge of $603.1 million on our goodwill and FCC licenses. Future impairment reviews could result in additional impairment charges. Any such impairment charges could materially adversely affect our financial results for the periods in which they are recorded.. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets, our bankruptcy filing or our substantial indebtedness could restrict our ability to access financing in the future.. Following our emergence from chapter 11 protection, Reorganized Cumulus may in the future need to rely on the capital and credit markets to meet our financial commitments or short-term liquidity needs if internal funds from operations are not sufficient for these purposes. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets could adversely affect our ability to access capital. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets may also result in increased costs associated with bank credit facilities and other sources of capital.. Longer term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of market or business uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, or reduced financing alternatives could adversely affect our ability to access or obtain any future financing. Any such disruption could increase our costs, require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding could be arranged. Such measures could include higher cost financings, deferring capital expenditures and reducing or eliminating future uses of cash, any of which could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations.. In addition, access to capital markets or credit markets may not be available on favorable terms, or at all, because of our bankruptcy filings, our substantial level of indebtedness or otherwise. If we raise additional capital through debt financing, the financing may involve covenants that would further restrict our business activities. Restrictions on the access to necessary additional funding may cause us to cancel or delay certain projects, initiatives, or business activities and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results.. We are exposed to credit risk on our accounts receivable. This risk is heightened during periods of uncertain economic conditions.. Our outstanding accounts receivable are not covered by collateral or credit insurance. While we have procedures to monitor and limit exposure to credit risk on our receivables, which risk is heightened during periods of uncertain economic conditions, there can be no assurance such procedures will effectively limit our credit risk and enable us to avoid losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. We also maintain reserves to cover the uncollectibilty of a portion of our accounts receivable.  There can be no assurance that such bad debt reserves will be sufficient.. We are dependent on key personnel.. Our business is and is expected to continue to be managed by a small number of key management and operating personnel, and our loss of one or more of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business. We believe that our future success will depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel and to effectively train and manage our employee base. Although we have entered into employment and other retention agreements with some of our key management personnel that include provisions restricting their ability to compete with us under specified circumstances, we cannot be assured that all of those restrictions would be enforced if challenged in court.. We also from time to time enter into agreements with on-air personalities with large loyal audiences in their individual markets to protect our interests in those relationships that we believe to be valuable. The loss of one or more of these personalities could result in losses of audience share in that particular market which, in turn, could adversely affect revenues in that particular market.. 28. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. The broadcasting industry is subject to extensive and changing federal regulation.. The radio broadcasting industry is subject to extensive regulation by the FCC under the Communications Act. We are required to obtain licenses from the FCC to operate our stations. Licenses are normally granted for a term of eight years and are renewable. Although the vast majority of FCC radio station licenses are routinely renewed, we cannot assure you that the FCC will grant our existing or future renewal applications or that the renewals will not include conditions out of the ordinary course. The non-renewal, or renewal with conditions, of one or more of our licenses could have a material adverse effect on us.. We must also comply with the extensive FCC regulations and policies on the ownership and operation of our radio stations. FCC regulations limit the number of radio stations that a licensee can own in a market, which could restrict our ability to acquire radio stations that could be material to our overall financial performance or our financial performance in a particular market.. The FCC also requires radio stations to comply with certain technical requirements to limit interference between two or more radio stations. Despite those limitations, a dispute could arise whether another station is improperly interfering with the operation of one of our stations or another radio licensee could complain to the FCC that one our stations is improperly interfering with that licensee's station. There can be no assurance as to how the FCC might resolve that dispute. These FCC regulations and others may change over time, and we cannot assure you that those changes would not have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Legislation and regulation of digital media businesses, including privacy and data protection regimes, could create unexpected costs, subject us to enforcement actions for compliance failures, or cause us to change our digital media technology platform or business model.. U.S. and foreign governments have enacted, considered or are currently considering legislation or regulations that relate to digital advertising, including, for example, regulations related to the online collection and use of anonymous user data and unique device identifiers, such as Internet Protocol addresses (\"IP address\"), unique mobile device identifiers or geo-location data and other privacy and data protection regulation. Such legislation or regulations could affect the costs of doing business online, and could reduce the demand for our digital solutions or otherwise harm our digital operations. For example, a wide variety of state, national and international laws and regulations apply to the collection, use, retention, protection, disclosure, transfer and other processing of personal data. While we take measures to protect the security of information that we collect, use and disclose in the operation of our business, such measures may not always be effective. Data protection and privacy-related laws and regulations are evolving and could result in ever-increasing regulatory and public scrutiny and escalating levels of enforcement and sanctions. In addition, it is possible that these laws and regulations may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another and may conflict with other rules or our business practices. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with U.S. federal, state, or international laws, including laws and regulations governing privacy, data security or consumer protection, could result in proceedings against us by governmental entities, consumers or others. Any such proceedings could force us to spend significant amounts in defense of these proceedings, distract our management, result in fines or require us to pay significant monetary damages, damage our reputation, adversely affect the demand for our services, increase our costs of doing business or otherwise cause us to change our business practices or limit or inhibit our ability to operate or expand our digital operations. The FCC has been vigorous in its enforcement of its rules and regulations, including its indecency, sponsorship identification and EAS rules, violations of which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. The Company is subject to many rules and regulations that govern the operations of its radio stations. The FCC has previously imposed, or sought to impose, fines on the Company, such as a $540,000 penalty imposed on us in early 2016 for sponsorship identification violations occurring in 2011, nearly all of which occurred prior to the Company's ownership of the station and continued for approximately one month thereafter.  The FCC also has shortened the license renewal terms for certain of our radio stations in response to rule violations. It also is not uncommon for a radio station and the FCC to seek to settle alleged rule violations prior to the issuance of an order that would impose fines and other penalties, but such settlements or consent decrees usually result in the station owner paying money to the FCC. Notwithstanding the efforts by the Company to prevent violations of FCC rules and regulations, however, it is likely that the Company will continue to be subject to such penalties (whether through the issuance of orders by the FCC or the execution of settlement agreements) given the number of radio stations owned and/or operated by the Company, and those penalties can be substantial.. 29. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. The FCC's regulations, for instance, prohibit the broadcast of \"obscene\" material at any time, and \"indecent\" material between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. Violations of this rule can result in fines up to $325,000 for each violation. While we have no knowledge of any pending complaints before the FCC alleging that obscene or indecent material has been broadcast on any of our stations, such complaints may have been, or in the future may be, filed against our stations.. The FCC has recently increased its enforcement of regulations requiring a radio station to include an on-air announcement which identifies the sponsor of all advertisements and other matter broadcast by any radio station for which any money, service or other valuable consideration is received. Fines for such violations can be substantial as they are dependent on the number of times a particular advertisement is broadcast. Similarly, the FCC has recently sought to impose substantial fines on broadcasters who transmit Emergency Alert System (\"EAS\") codes, or simulations thereof, in the absence of an actual emergency or authorized test of the EAS. In 2014, for instance, the FCC imposed a fine of $1.9 million on three media companies, and last year imposed a fine of $1 million on a radio broadcaster, in each case based on a determined misuse of EAS tones.. The Company is currently subject to, and may become subject to new, FCC inquiries or proceedings related to our stations' broadcasts or operations. We cannot predict the outcome of such inquiries and proceedings, but to the extent that such inquiries or proceedings result in the imposition of fines (alone or in the aggregate), a settlement with the FCC, revocation of any of our station licenses or denials of license renewal applications, our results of operation and business could be materially adversely affected.. Legislation could require radio broadcasters to pay additional royalties, including to additional parties such as record labels or recording artists.. We currently pay royalties to song composers and publishers through Broadcast Music Inc., the American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers, SESAC, Inc. and Global Music Rights, LLC but not to record labels or recording artists for exhibition or use of over the air broadcasts of music. From time to time, Congress considers legislation which could change the copyright fees and the procedures by which the fees are determined. The legislation historically has been the subject of considerable debate and activity by the broadcast industry and other parties affected by the proposed legislation. It cannot be predicted whether any proposed future legislation will become law or what impact it would have on our results from operations, cash flows or financial position.. We are a holding company with no material independent assets or operations and we depend on our subsidiaries for cash.. We are a holding company with no material independent assets or operations, other than our investments in our subsidiaries. Because we are a holding company, we are dependent upon the payment of dividends, distributions, loans or advances to us by our subsidiaries to fund our obligations. These payments could be or become subject to restrictions under applicable laws in the jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries operate. Payments by our subsidiaries are also contingent upon the subsidiaries' earnings. If we are unable to obtain sufficient funds from our subsidiaries to fund our obligations, our financial condition and ability to meet our obligations may be adversely affected.. Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. This Form 10-K contains and incorporates by reference \"forward-looking statements\" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 (the \"Securities Act\") and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the \"Exchange Act\"). For purposes of federal and state securities laws, forward-looking statements are all statements other than those of historical fact and are typically identified by the words \"believes,\", \"contemplates\", \"expects,\" \"anticipates,\" \"continues,\" \"intends,\" \"likely,\" \"may,\" \"plans,\" \"potential,\" \"should,\" \"will\" and similar expressions, whether in the negative or the affirmative. These statements include statements regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of Cumulus and its directors and officers with respect to, among other things, future events, financial results and financial trends expected to impact Cumulus.. 30. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Such forward-looking statements are and will be, as the case may be, subject to change and subject to many risks, uncertainties and other factors relating to our operations and business environment, which may cause our actual results to be materially different from any future results, expressed or implied, by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following:. • our achievement of certain expected revenue results, including as a result of factors or events that are unexpected or otherwise outside of our control;. • the successful reorganization of our business in chapter 11, or when this reorganization will occur, irrespective of our obtaining confirmation of the Plan;. • our capital structure upon any reorganization;. • our ability to generate sufficient cash flows to service our debt and other obligations and our ability to access capital, including debt or equity;. • general economic or business conditions affecting the radio broadcasting industry which may be less favorable than expected, decreasing spending by advertisers;. • changes in market conditions which could impair our goodwill or intangible assets and the effects of any material impairment of our goodwill or intangible assets;. • our ability to execute our business plan and strategy;. • our ability to attract, motivate and/or retain key executives and associates;. • increased competition in the radio broadcasting industry and our ability to respond to changes in technology in order to remain competitive;. • disruptions or security breaches of our information technology infrastructure;. • the impact of current, pending or future legislation and regulations, antitrust considerations, and pending or future litigation or claims;. • changes in regulatory or legislative policies or actions or in regulatory bodies;. • changes in uncertain tax positions and tax rates;. • changes in the financial markets;. • changes in capital expenditure requirements;. • changes in interest rates;. • the possibility that we may be unable to achieve any expected cost-saving or operational synergies in connection with any acquisitions or business improvement initiatives, or achieve them within the expected time periods; and. • other risks and uncertainties referenced from time to time in this Form 10-K and other filings of ours with the SEC or not currently known to us or that we do not currently deem to be material.. Many of these factors are beyond our control or are difficult to predict, and their ultimate impact could be material. We caution you not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Form 10-K. Except as may be required by law, we do not undertake any obligation to update or alter any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise."
