[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and our future results. You should carefully consider the risk factors. While we believe we have identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting our business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial that may adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results or share price in the future.. Risks Relating to Our Business. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $729.6 million of total gross debt outstanding. Our high level of indebtedness could have significant effects on our business, including the following:. • it may be more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations;. • our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions or general corporate purposes may be impaired;. • we must use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest on our debt, which reduces funds available to use for operations, invest in our business, pay dividends to our shareholders and use for other purposes;. • we could be at a competitive disadvantage compared to those of our competitors that may have proportionately less debt;. • the terms of our debt restricts our ability to pay dividends; and. 31. • our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate may be limited.. For instance, as described above, if future changes in regulations affecting our products or services are enacted, they could adversely impact current product offerings or alter the economic performance of our existing products and services. The terms of existing or future debt instruments may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives.. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, or if we confront regulatory uncertainty in our industry or challenges in debt capital markets, we may not be able to refinance our indebtedness prior to maturity on favorable terms, or at all. In addition, prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing could increase our interest or other debt capital expense. A refinancing of our indebtedness could also require us to comply with more onerous covenants and restrictions on our business operations. If we are unable to refinance our indebtedness prior to maturity we will be required to pursue alternative measures that could include restructuring our current indebtedness, selling all or a portion of our business or assets, seeking additional capital, reducing or delaying capital expenditures or taking other steps to address obligations under the terms of our indebtedness.. Our ability to meet our expenses thus depends on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors, many of which we cannot control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future and our currently anticipated growth in revenue and cash flow may not be realized, either or both of which could result in our being unable to repay indebtedness, or to fund other liquidity needs. If we do not have enough funds, we may be required to refinance all or part of our then existing debt, sell assets or borrow more funds, which we may not be able to accomplish on terms acceptable to us, or at all. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements may restrict us from pursuing any of these alternatives.. Because we depend in large part on third-party lenders to provide the cash needed to fund our loans, an inability to affordably access third-party financing could adversely affect our business.. Our principal sources of liquidity to fund the loans we make to our customers are cash provided by operations, funds from third-party lenders under our CSO programs and our Non-Recourse U.S. SPV Facility, which finances the origination of eligible U.S. Unsecured and Secured Installment Loans. However, we cannot guarantee we will be able to secure additional operating capital from third-party lenders or refinance our existing revolving credit facilities on reasonable terms or at all. As the volume of loans that we make to customers increases, or if provision for losses or expenses rise due to various factors, we may have to expand our borrowing capacity on our existing Non-Recourse U.S. SPV Facility (as discussed below) or add new sources of capital. The availability of these financing sources depends on many factors, some of which lie outside of our control. In the event of a sudden or unexpected shortage of funds in the banking system or capital markets, we may not be able to maintain necessary levels of funding without incurring high funding costs, suffering a reduction in the term of funding instruments or having to liquidate certain assets. If our cost of borrowing increases or we are unable to arrange new or alternative methods of financing on favorable terms, we may have to curtail our origination of loans, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. We may be unable to protect our proprietary technology and analytics or keep up with that of our competitors.. The success of our business depends to a significant degree upon the protection of our proprietary technology, including our proprietary credit and fraud scoring models, which we use for pricing loans. We seek to protect our intellectual property with non-disclosure agreements we sign with third parties and employees and through standard measures to protect trade secrets. We also implement cybersecurity policies and procedures to prevent unauthorized access to our systems and technology. However, we may be unable to deter misappropriation of our proprietary information, detect unauthorized use or take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. Our employees, including those working on our Curo Platform, have not been required to execute. 32. agreements assigning us proprietary rights to technology developed in the scope of their employment, although we intend to have employees sign such agreements in the future. Additionally, while we currently have a number of registered trademarks and pending applications for trademark registration, we do not own any patents or copyrights with respect to our intellectual property.. If competitors learn our trade secrets (especially with regard to our marketing and risk management capabilities), others attempt to acquire patent protection of algorithms similar to ours, or our employees attempt to make commercial use of the technology they develop for us, it could be difficult to successfully prosecute to recover damages. Additionally, a third-party may attempt to reverse engineer or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technology without our consent. The pursuit of a claim against a third-party or employee for infringement of our intellectual property could be costly, and there can be no guarantee that any such efforts would be successful. If we are unable to protect our software and other proprietary intellectual property rights, or to develop technologies that are as adaptive to changing consumer trends or appealing to consumers as the technologies of our competitors, we could face a disadvantage relative to our competitors.. Any disruption in the availability of our information technology systems could adversely affect our business operations.. We rely heavily upon our Curo Platform in almost every aspect of our business, including to process customer transactions, provide customer service, determine loan amounts, manage collections, account for our business activities, support regulatory compliance and to generate the reporting used by management for analytical, loss management and decision-making purposes. Our store and online platform is part of an integrated data network designed to manage cash levels, facilitate underwriting decisions, reconcile cash balances and report revenue and expense transaction data. Our Curo Platform could be disrupted and become unavailable due to a number of factors, including power outages, a failure of one or more of our information technology, telecommunications or other systems, and cyber-attacks on or sustained disruptions of these systems. Our back-up systems and security measures could fail to prevent a disruption in the availability of our information technology systems. A disruption in our Curo platform could prevent us from performing fundamental aspects of our business, including loan underwriting, customer service, payments and collections, internal reporting, and regulatory compliance.. If we do not effectively price the credit risk of our prospective or existing customers, our operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely impacted.. Our business has much higher rates of charge-offs than traditional lenders. Accordingly, we must price our loan products to take into account the credit risks of our customers. In deciding whether to extend credit to prospective customers and the terms on which to provide that credit, including the price, we rely heavily on the credit models in our proprietary Curo Platform. These models take into account, among other things, information from customers, third parties and an internal database of loan records gathered through monitoring the performance of our customers over time. Any failure of our Curo Platform to effectively price credit risk could lead to higher-than-anticipated customer defaults, which could lead to higher charge-offs and losses for us, or overpricing, which could lead us to lose customers. Our models could become less effective over time, receive inaccurate information or otherwise fail to accurately estimate customer losses in certain circumstances. If we are unable to maintain and improve the credit models in our proprietary Curo Platform, or if they do not perform up to target standards, they may fail to adequately predict the creditworthiness of customers or to assess prospective customers' financial ability to repay their loans. This could further hinder our growth and have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. If the information provided by customers or third parties to us is inaccurate, we may misjudge a customer's qualification to receive a loan, and our operating results may be harmed.. Our lending decisions are based partly on information provided to us by loan applicants. To the extent that these applicants provide information to us in a manner that we are unable to verify, our scoring may not accurately reflect the associated risk. In addition, data provided by third-party sources is a significant component of our scoring of loan applications and this data may contain inaccuracies. Inaccurate analysis of credit data that could. 33. result from false loan application information could harm our reputation, business and operating results. In addition, we use identity and fraud check analyzing data provided by external databases to authenticate each customer's identity. There is a risk, however, that these checks could fail, and fraud may occur. We may not be able to recoup funds underlying loans made in connection with inaccurate statements, omissions of fact or fraud, in which case our revenue, operating results and profitability will be harmed. Fraudulent activity or significant increases in fraudulent activity could also lead to regulatory intervention, negatively impact our operating results, brand and reputation and require us to take steps to reduce fraud risk, which could increase our costs.. Improper disclosure of customer personal data, including by means of a cyber-attack, could result in liability and harm our reputation. Cybersecurity risks and security breaches, in general, could result in increasing costs in an effort to minimize those risks and to respond to cyber incidents.. We store and process large amounts of personally identifiable information, including data that is considered sensitive customer information. We believe that we maintain adequate policies and procedures, including antivirus and malware software and access controls, and use appropriate safeguards to protect against attacks. It is possible that our security controls over personal data, our training of employees and other practices we follow may not prevent the improper disclosure of personally identifiable information. Such disclosure could harm our reputation and subject us to liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue.. In addition, we are subject to cybersecurity risks and security breaches, which could result in the unauthorized disclosure or appropriation of customer data. To date none of these actual or attempted cyberattacks has had a material effect on our operations or financial condition. However, we may not be able to anticipate or implement effective preventive measures against these types of security breaches, especially because the techniques change frequently or are not recognized until launched. We may need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches or to address problems caused by breaches. Actual or anticipated attacks and risks may cause us to incur increasing expenses, including costs to deploy additional personnel and protection technologies, train employees, and engage third-party experts and consultants. It is also possible that our protective measures would fail to prevent a cyber-attack and the resulting disclosure or appropriation of customer data. A significant data breach could harm our reputation, diminish our customer confidence and subject us to significant legal claims, any of which may contribute to a loss of customers and have a material adverse effect on us.. In addition, federal and some state regulators are considering promulgating rules and standards to address cybersecurity risks and many U.S. states have already enacted laws requiring companies to notify individuals of data security breaches involving their personal data. In the United Kingdom, U.K. businesses are presently subject to the Data Protection Act 1998, which requires that appropriate technical and organizational measures shall be taken against unauthorized or unlawful processing of personal data and against accidental loss or destruction of, or damage to, personal data. As a result of its membership of the EU, U.K. businesses are subject to directly applicable European Regulation in respect of personal data, U.K. businesses will be required to comply with new obligations from May 25, 2018, which will impose greater responsibility, and the U.K. government have indicated that they are to enact direct U.K. laws applicable after Brexit to similar effect, which will require companies to notify individuals of most data security breaches involving their personal data. These mandatory disclosures regarding a security breach are costly to implement and may lead to widespread negative publicity, which may cause customers to lose confidence in the effectiveness of our data security measures.. The failure of third parties who provide products, services or support to us could disrupt our operations or result in a loss of revenue.. Some of our lending activity depends in part on support we receive from unaffiliated third parties. This includes third-party lenders who make loans to our customers under our CSO programs as well as other third parties that provide services to facilitate lending, loan underwriting and payment processing in our online lending consumer loan channels. The loss of our relationship with any of these third-parties and an inability to replace them or the failure of these third parties to maintain quality and consistency in their programs or services or to have the ability. 34. to provide their products and services, could cause us to lose customers and substantially decrease the revenue and earnings of our business. Our revenue and earnings could also be adversely affected if any of those third-party providers make material changes to the products or services that we rely on. We also use third parties to support and maintain certain of our communication systems and information systems. If a third-party provider fails to provide its products or services, makes material changes to such products and services, does not maintain its quality and consistency or fails to have the ability to provide its products and services, our operations could be disrupted.. In Texas and Ohio, we rely on third-party lenders to conduct business.. In Texas and Ohio we operate as a CSO, also known as a credit services organization, or a credit access business, also known as a CAB, arranging for unrelated third-parties to make loans to our customers.  During 2017, our CSO programs in Texas and Ohio generated revenues of $237.9 million and $18.2 million, respectively. During 2016, our CSO programs in Texas and Ohio generated revenues of $205.7 million and $9.2 million, respectively. There are a limited number of third-party lenders that make these types of loans and there is significant demand and competition for the business of these companies. These third parties rely on borrowed funds in order to make consumer loans. If these third-parties lose their ability to make loans or become unwilling to make loans to us and we are unable to find another third-party lender, we would be unable to continue offering loans in Texas and Ohio as a CSO, which would prevent us from receiving revenue from these activities. This would adversely affect our revenue and results of operations.. Our core operations are dependent upon maintaining relationships with banks and other third-party electronic payment solutions providers. Any inability to manage cash movements through the banking system or the Automated Clearing House, or ACH, system would materially impact our business.. We maintain relationships with commercial banks and third-party payment processors. These entities provide a variety of treasury management services including providing depository accounts, transaction processing, merchant card processing, cash management, and ACH processing. We rely on commercial banks to receive and clear deposits, provide cash for our store locations, perform wire transfers and ACH transactions and process debit card transactions. We rely on the ACH system to deposit loan proceeds into customer bank accounts and to electronically withdraw authorized payments from those accounts. It has been reported that the U.S. Department of Justice and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as well as other federal regulators, have taken or threatened actions, commonly referred to as \"Operation Choke Point,\" intended to discourage banks and other financial services providers from providing access to banking and third-party payment processing services to lenders in our industry. We can give no assurances that actions akin to Operation Choke Point will not intensify or resume, or that the effect of such actions against banks and/or third-party payment processors will not pose a future threat to our ability to maintain relationships with commercial banks and third-party payment processors. The failure or inability of retail banks and/or third-party payment providers to continue to provide services to us could adversely affect our operations if we are unable or unsuccessful in replacing those providers with comparable service providers.. Because we maintain a significant supply of cash in our stores, we may be subject to cash shortages due to employee and third-party theft and errors. We also may be subject to liability as a result of crimes at our stores.. Our business requires us to maintain a significant supply of cash in each of our stores. As a result, we are subject to the risk of cash shortages resulting from theft and errors by employees and third-parties. Although we have implemented various programs in an effort to reduce these risks, maintain insurance coverage for theft and utilize various security measures at our facilities, it is possible that employee and third-party theft and errors will occur in material amounts. Cash shortages from employee and third-party theft and errors were $0.3 million (0.03% of consolidated revenue) and $0.6 million (0.07% of consolidated revenue) in the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The extent of our cash shortages could increase as we expand the nature and scope of our products and services. Although we have experienced break-ins by third parties at our stores in the past, none of these has had, either individually or in the aggregate, a material adverse impact on our operations. Going. 35. forward, theft and errors could lead to cash shortages and could adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. It is also possible that violent crimes such as armed robberies may be committed at our stores. We could experience liability or adverse publicity arising from such crimes. For example, we may be liable if an employee, customer or bystander suffers bodily injury or other harm. Any such event may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition.. If our allowance for loan losses is not adequate to absorb our actual losses, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected.. We face the risk that our customers will fail to repay their loans in full. We maintain an allowance for loan losses for estimated probable losses on company-funded loans and loans in default. See Note 1, \"Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Nature of Operations\" of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report for factors considered by management in estimating the allowance for loan losses. We also maintain a credit services guarantee liability for estimated probable losses on loans funded by unrelated third-party lenders under our CSO programs, but for which we are responsible. As of December 31, 2017, the sum of our aggregate reserve and allowance for losses on loans and guarantee liability not in default (including loans funded by unrelated third-party lenders under our CSO programs) was $87.4 million. This reserve, however, is an estimate. Actual losses are difficult to forecast, especially if such losses stem from factors beyond our historical experience, and unlike traditional banks, we are not subject to periodic review by bank regulatory agencies of our allowance for loan losses. As a result, our allowance for loan losses may not be comparable to that of traditional banks subject to regulatory oversight or sufficient to cover actual losses. If actual losses are greater than our reserve and allowance, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. Adverse economic conditions could cause demand for our loan products to decline or make it more difficult for our customers to make payments on our loans and increase our default rates.. We derive the majority of our revenue from consumer lending. Factors that may influence demand for our products and services include macroeconomic conditions, such as employment, personal income and consumer sentiment. Our underwriting standards require, among other things, our customers to have a steady source of income as a prerequisite for making a loan. Therefore, if unemployment increases among our customer base, the number of loans we originate will likely decline and the number of loan defaults could increase. Additionally, if consumers become more pessimistic regarding the outlook for the economy and therefore spend less and save more, demand for consumer loans in general may decline. Accordingly, poor economic conditions could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. If negative assertions regarding businesses like ours become widespread, they could reduce demand for our loan products.. Negative press coverage and efforts of special interest groups to persuade customers that the consumer loans and other alternative financial services provided by us are predatory and abusive could also negatively affect demand for our products and services. If consumers accept this negative characterization of our business or our products on a widespread basis, demand for our loans could significantly decline, which would negatively affect our revenues and results of operations. Should we fail to adapt to significant changes in our customers' demand for our products or services, our revenues could decrease significantly and our results of operations could be harmed. Even if we do make changes to existing products or services or introduce new products or services to fulfill changing customer demands, our customers may resist or reject such products or services.. Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if we are unable to manage our growth effectively.. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully grow our business or that our current business, results of operations and financial condition will not suffer if we fail to prudently manage our growth. Failure to grow the business and generate estimated future levels of cash flow could inhibit our ability to service our debt. 36. obligations. Our expansion strategy, which contemplates disciplined growth in Canada and the United States, increasing the market share of our online operations, selectively expanding our offering of installment loans and potential expansion in other international markets, is subject to significant risks. The profitability of our current operations and any future growth is dependent upon a number of factors, including the ability to obtain and maintain financing to support these opportunities, the ability to hire, train and retain an adequate number of qualified employees, the ability to obtain and maintain any required regulatory permits and licenses and other factors, some of which are beyond our control, such as the continuation of favorable regulatory and legislative environments. Imprudent or poor investments could drain our capital resources and negatively impact our liquidity. As a result, the profitability of our current operations could suffer if our growth strategy is not successfully implemented.. The failure to successfully integrate newly acquired businesses into our operations could negatively impact our profitability.. From time to time, we may consider opportunities to acquire other products or technologies that may enhance our product platform or technology, expand the breadth of our markets or customer base, or advance our business strategies. The success of the acquisitions we have completed, as well as future acquisitions is, and will continue to be, dependent upon our ability to effectively integrate the management, operations and technology of acquired businesses into our existing management, operations and technology platforms. Integration can be complex, expensive and time-consuming. The failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses into our organization in a timely and cost-effective manner could materially adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. It is also possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of ongoing businesses, tax costs or inefficiencies, or inconsistencies in standards, controls, information technology systems, procedures and policies, any of which could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, employees or other third-parties or our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions and could harm our financial performance. We do not know if we will be able to identify acquisitions we deem suitable, whether we will be able to successfully complete any such acquisitions on favorable terms or at all, or whether we will be able to successfully integrate any acquired products or technologies. Additionally, an additional risk inherent in any acquisition is that we fail to realize a positive return on our investment.. Indemnifications associated with assumed liabilities of acquired entities may be insufficient to cover our exposures to litigation and settlement costs.. In 2011, we completed the acquisition of Cash Money Group, Inc., or Cash Money. While the agreement governing our Cash Money acquisition provides us with limited indemnification for litigation and settlement costs for activities related to Cash Money's operations prior to the acquisition of Cash Money, our recourse with respect to those matters is limited to set-off against a C$7.5 million escrow note. Through December 31, 2017, we have set off approximately C$4.2 million of class action settlement costs and related expenses, and C$0.3 million of tax indemnification amounts against the escrow note. The balance of this escrow note is included in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as Subordinated Shareholder Debt.. In August 2012, we completed the acquisition of The Money Store, L.P., which operated under the name The Money Box® Check Cashing, or The Money Box. The Money Box acquisition agreement provides us with limited indemnification for certain matters related to The Money Box's operations prior to the date of the acquisition of The Money Box; however, our recovery is limited in most cases to an aggregate amount of $2.4 million and our ability to make claims is subject to certain time limitations. To date, no indemnification payments have been made or claimed under The Money Box acquisition agreement.. In 2013, we completed the acquisition of Wage Day Advance Limited, or Wage Day. The Wage Day acquisition agreement provides us with limited indemnification for certain matters related to Wage Day's operations prior to the date of the Wage Day acquisition. To date, no indemnification payments or claims have been made under this provision.. 37. These indemnifications provide us with only limited recourse against the sellers of these businesses in the event we incur substantial costs in connection with actions occurring prior to our acquisition of the businesses. The agreements limit the amount we can recover, limit the causes of action for which we can pursue recovery, and place other restrictions on our ability to recover for such losses. Accordingly, if we incur substantial costs for issues arising prior to our acquisitions of these businesses, our financial position and results of operations may be adversely affected.. If we lose key management or are unable to attract and retain the talent required to operate and grow our business or if we are required to substantially increase our labor costs to attract and retain qualified employees, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Our continued growth and future success will depend on our ability to retain the members of our senior management team, who possess valuable knowledge of, and experience with, the legal and regulatory environment of our industry, who have experience operating in our international markets and who have been instrumental in developing our strategic plans and procuring capital to enable the pursuit of those plans. The loss of the services of one or more members of senior management and our inability to attract new skilled management could harm our business and future development. We do not maintain any key man insurance policies with respect to any senior management or employees.. Labor costs represent a significant portion of our total expenses. If we are required to substantially increase our labor costs in order to attract or retain a sufficient number of qualified employees for our current operations, we may not be able to operate our business in a cost-effective manner. We also believe having experienced employees and staff continuity in our stores is an important contributor to the success of our business. If we were unable to retain our experienced managers and staff, it could adversely affect our customer service and our loan volume could suffer.. Goodwill comprises a significant portion of our total assets. We assess goodwill for impairment at least annually, which could result in a material, non-cash write-down, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. The carrying value of our goodwill was $145.6 million, or approximately 16.9% of our total assets, as of December 31, 2017. We assess goodwill for impairment on an annual basis at a reporting unit level. Goodwill is assessed between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. During the third quarter of 2015, due to the decline in our overall financial performance in the United Kingdom, we determined that a triggering event had occurred requiring an impairment evaluation of our goodwill and other intangible assets in the United Kingdom. As a result, during the third quarter of 2015, we recorded non-cash impairment charges of $2.9 million, which comprised a $1.8 million charge related to the Wage Day trade name, a $0.2 million charge related to the customer relationships acquired as part of the Wage Day acquisition, and a $0.9 million non-cash goodwill impairment charge in our United Kingdom reporting segment.. Our impairment reviews require extensive use of accounting judgment and financial estimates. Application of alternative assumptions and definitions, such as reviewing goodwill for impairment at a different organizational level, could produce significantly different results. We may be required to recognize impairment of goodwill based on future events or circumstances which could include a significant change in the business climate, a change in strategic direction, legal factors, operating performance indicators, a change in the competitive environment, the sale or disposition of a significant portion of a reporting unit, or future economic factors such as unfavorable changes in the estimated future discounted cash flows of our reporting units. Impairment of goodwill could result in material charges that could, in the future, result in a material, non-cash write-down of goodwill, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Due to the current economic environment and the uncertainties regarding the impact that future economic consequences will have on our reporting units, there can be no assurance that our estimates and assumptions made for purposes of our annual goodwill impairment test will prove to be accurate predictions of the future. If our assumptions regarding forecasted revenues or margins for certain of our reporting units are not achieved, we may be required to record. 38. goodwill impairment losses in future periods. It is not possible at this time to determine if any such future impairment will occur, and if it does occur, whether such charge would be material.. Our lending business is somewhat seasonal, which causes our revenues to fluctuate and may adversely affect our ability to service our debt obligations.. Our U.S. lending business typically experiences reduced demand in the first quarter as a result of our customers' receipt of tax refund checks. Demand for our U.S. lending services is generally greatest during the fourth quarter. This seasonality requires us to manage our cash flows over the course of the year. If a governmental authority were to pursue economic stimulus actions or issue additional tax refunds or tax credits at other times during the year, such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition during those periods.. Our lending businesses in Canada and the United Kingdom are somewhat seasonal, although to a lesser extent than our U.S. lending business. We typically experience our highest demand in Canada in the third and fourth calendar quarters with lower demand in the first quarter; however, the reduction in volume relating to tax refunds is not as prevalent as in the United States. If our consolidated revenues were to fall substantially below what we would normally expect during certain periods, our annual financial results and our ability to service our debt obligations could be adversely affected.. Changes in tax laws could adversely affect our business.. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. President signed into law H.R. 1, commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (\"the TCJA\"). The TCJA includes numerous changes in tax law, including a permanent reduction in the federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, which took effect for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2018, and a territorial international tax system which significantly alters the U.S. federal income tax consequences related to foreign subsidiary income. We continue to examine the impact the TCJA may have on our operations. However, the impact of the TCJA is uncertain and is subject to ongoing guidance and interpretation. See Note 13, \"Income Taxes\" of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report.. Adverse real estate market conditions or zoning restrictions may result in increased operating costs or a reduction in new store development, which could impact our profitability and growth plans.. We lease all of our store locations. An increase in lease costs, property taxes or maintenance costs for lease renewals or new store locations could result in increased operating costs for these locations, thereby negatively impacting the stores' operating margins.. A recent trend among some municipalities in the United States and in Canada has been to enact zoning restrictions in certain markets. These zoning restrictions may limit the number of payday lending stores that can operate in an area or require certain distance requirements between competitors, residential areas or highways. These restrictions may make it more difficult to find suitable location for future expansion, thereby negatively impacting our growth plans.. Failure to keep up with the rapid changes in e-commerce and the uses and regulation of the Internet could harm our business.. The business of providing products and services such as ours over the Internet is dynamic and relatively new. We must keep pace with rapid technological change, consumer use habits, Internet security risks, risks of system failure or inadequacy and governmental regulation and taxation, and each of these factors could adversely impact our business. In addition, concerns about fraud, computer security and privacy and/or other problems may discourage additional consumers from adopting or continuing to use the Internet as a medium of commerce. In countries such as the United States and the United Kingdom, where e-commerce generally has been available for some time and the level of market penetration of our online financial services is relatively high, acquiring new. 39. customers for our services may be more difficult and costly than it has been in the past. In order to expand our customer base, we must appeal to and acquire consumers who historically have used traditional means of commerce to conduct their financial services transactions. If these consumers prove to be less profitable than our previous customers, and we are unable to gain efficiencies in our operating costs, including our cost of acquiring new customers, our business could be adversely impacted.. Competition in the financial services industry could cause us to lose market share and revenues.. The industry in which we operate is highly fragmented. While we believe the market for U.S. storefronts is mature, it is likely that competition for market share will intensify. We believe the Canadian market is less saturated, but still experiences significant competition by both large, well-financed operators as well as significant numbers of smaller competitors. We believe that online lending in the United Kingdom is more widely accepted among consumers than in either the United States or in Canada, and that customers are more likely to transact business via the internet and using mobile phones. Across all geographies, we see a growing number of sophisticated online-based lenders. Increased competition in any of the geographies in which we operate could lead to consolidation in our industry. If our competitors get stronger through consolidation, and we are unable to identify attractive consolidation opportunities, we could be at a competitive disadvantage and could experience declining market share and revenue. If these events materialize, they could negatively affect our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to fund our operations and service our debt obligations.. In addition to increasing competition among companies that offer traditional consumer loan products, there is a risk of losing market share to new market entrants. Increased competition from secured title loan lenders, pawn lenders and unsecured installment loan lenders could also adversely affect our revenues.. Our growth strategy calls for opening additional stores in the United States and Canada, and to expand our online presence in each of those geographies. If our competitors aggressively pursue store expansion, competition for store sites could result in our failing to open our planned number of stores, or increase our costs to secure additional sites, both of which could result in slower growth and diminished operating performance. Increased competition in our online business could result in higher advertising and marketing costs to attract and retain customers, leading to lower margins.. The international scope of our operations leads to increased cost and complexity, which could negatively impact our operations.. The international nature of our operations has increased the complexity of managing our business. This has led to enhanced administrative burdens related to regulatory compliance, tax compliance, labor controls and other federal, state, provincial and local requirements. Additional resources, both internal and external, have been added to comply with these increasing requirements, resulting in an increase in our corporate costs. In addition, it remains to be seen what impact the recent vote by the United Kingdom to leave the European Union will have on the U.K. economy and our U.K. operations. Future changes to laws or regulations may result in further cost increases, thereby negatively impacting our profitability.. Our operations could be subject to natural disasters and other business disruptions, which could adversely impact our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses.. Our services and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from tornadoes, hurricanes, earthquakes, fires, floods, power losses, telecommunications failures, terrorist attacks, acts of war, human errors and similar events. A significant natural disaster, such as a tornado, hurricane, earthquake, fire or flood, could have a material adverse impact on our ability to conduct business, and our insurance coverage may be insufficient to compensate for losses that may occur. Acts of terrorism, war, civil unrest, violence or human error could cause disruptions to our business or the economy as a whole. Any of these events could cause consumer confidence to decrease, which could result in a decreased number of loans being made to customers.. We rely on trademark protection to distinguish our products from the products of our competitors.. 40. We rely on trademark protection to distinguish our products from the products of our competitors. We have registered various trademarks, including \"The Money Box,\" \"Speedy Cash®,\" \"OPT+SM\" and \"Rapid Cash,\" in the United States and/or Canada, and are in the process of registering other trademarks in those jurisdictions. We registered the \"Juo Loans\" trademark in the United Kingdom and at the European Union level. For trademarks we use that are not registered, and as permitted by applicable local law, we rely on common law trademark protection. Third parties may oppose our trademark applications, or otherwise challenge our use of the trademarks, and may be able to use our trademarks in jurisdictions where they are not registered or otherwise protected by law. If our trademarks are successfully challenged or if a third party is using confusingly similar or identical trademarks in particular jurisdictions before we do, we could be forced to rebrand our products, which could result in loss of brand recognition, and could require us to devote additional resources to marketing new brands. If others are able to use our trademarks, our ability to distinguish our products may be impaired, which could adversely affect our business.. We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that our employees or we have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers.. Many of our employees were previously employed at other financial technology companies, including our competitors or potential competitors, and we may hire employees in the future that are so employed. We could in the future be subject to claims that these employees, or we, have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. If we fail in defending against such claims, a court could order us to pay substantial damages and prohibit us from using technologies or features that are found to incorporate or be derived from the trade secrets or other proprietary information of the former employers. If any of these technologies or features are important to our products, this could prevent us from selling those products and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, such litigation could result in substantial costs and divert the attention of management.. Risks Relating to Owning Our Common Stock. An active trading market for our common stock may not develop and the market price for our common stock may decline.. We cannot predict the extent to which investor interest in our company will lead to the development of an active trading market, or how liquid that market may become. An active trading market for our common stock may never develop or be sustained, which could adversely impact your ability to sell your shares and could depress the market price of your shares. Consequently, you may be unable to sell your shares of our common stock at prices equal to or greater than the price you paid for them. We cannot predict the prices at which our common stock will trade.. The market price of our common stock is likely to be volatile and could decline, resulting in a substantial loss of your investment.. The stock market in general has been highly volatile. As a result, the market price and trading volume for our common stock may also be highly volatile, and investors in our common stock may experience a decrease in the value of their shares, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. Factors that could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly include:. • our operating and financial performance and prospects and the performance of other similar companies;. • our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry;. • conditions that impact demand for our products and services;. • the public's reaction to our press releases, financial guidance and other public announcements, and filings with the SEC;. 41. • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities or research analysts who track our common stock;. • market and industry perception of our level of success in pursuing our growth strategy;. • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings;. • changes in government and other regulations;. • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles;. • arrival or departure of members of senior management or other key personnel;. • the number of shares to be publicly traded;. • sales of common stock by us, our investors or members of our management team;. • factors affecting the industry in which we operate, including competition, innovation, regulation, the economy and other factors; and. • changes in general market, economic and political conditions in the U.S. and global economies or financial markets, including those resulting from natural disasters, telecommunications failures, cyber-attacks, civil unrest in various parts of the world, acts of war, terrorist attacks or other catastrophic events.. Any of these factors may result in large and sudden changes in the trading volume and market price of our common stock and may prevent you from being able to sell your shares at or above the price you paid for them.. Following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, stockholders often file securities class action lawsuits against such company. Our involvement in a class action lawsuit could be costly to defend and divert our senior management's attention and, if adversely determined, could involve substantial damages.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish misleading or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. Our common stock does not currently have and may never obtain research coverage by securities and industry analysts. If there is no coverage of us by securities or industry analysts, the trading price for our shares could be negatively impacted. In the event we obtain securities or industry analyst coverage and one or more of these analysts downgrades our shares or publishes misleading or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of us or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our shares could decrease, which could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" and any decision on our part to comply with certain reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies could make our common stock less attractive to investors.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the JOBS Act, enacted in April 2012, and, for as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, we may choose to take advantage of exemptions from various reporting requirements applicable to other public companies, including, but not limited to, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation (including Chief Executive Officer pay ratio disclosure) in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. Additionally, until we cease to be an emerging growth company, we are not required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. As an emerging growth company, we have elected to use the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. As a result, our consolidated financial statements may not be comparable to the financial statements of issuers who are required to comply with the effective dates for new or revised accounting standards that are applicable to public companies.. 42. We may take advantage of these exemptions until such time that we are no longer an emerging growth company. Accordingly, the information contained herein may be different than the information you receive from other public companies in which you hold stock. We could remain an emerging growth company for up to five years, or until the earliest of (i) the last day of the first fiscal year in which our annual gross revenues are at least $1.07 billion, (ii) the date that we become a \"large accelerated filer\" as defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Exchange Act, which would occur if, among other things, the market value of our common equity securities held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the last business day of our most recently completed second fiscal quarter, or (iii) the date on which we have issued more than $1 billion in nonconvertible debt securities during the preceding three-year period.. We cannot predict whether investors will find our common stock less attractive if we choose to rely on one or more of the exemptions described above. If investors find our common stock less attractive as a result of any decisions to reduce future disclosure, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile.. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources and distract our management, which could make it difficult to manage our business, particularly after we are no longer an \"emerging growth company.\". We have historically operated as a private company and have not been subject to the same financial and other reporting and corporate governance requirements as a public company. We are now required to file annual, quarterly and other reports with the SEC and will need to prepare and timely file financial statements that comply with SEC reporting requirements. We will also be subject to other reporting and corporate governance requirements under the listing standards of The New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which will impose significant compliance costs and obligations upon us. The changes necessitated by becoming a public company will require a significant commitment of additional resources and management oversight, which will increase our operating costs. These changes will also place significant additional demands on our finance and accounting staff, which may not have prior public company experience or experience working for a newly public company, and on our financial accounting and information systems, and we may need to, in the future, hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company reporting experience and technical accounting knowledge. Other expenses associated with being a public company include increases in auditing, accounting and legal fees and expenses, investor relations expenses, increased directors' fees and director and officer liability insurance costs, registrar and transfer agent fees and listing fees, as well as other expenses. As a public company, we will be required, among other things, to:. • prepare and file periodic reports, and distribute other stockholder communications, in compliance with the federal securities laws and the NYSE rules;. • define and expand the roles and the duties of our board of directors and its committees and adopt a set of corporate governance guidelines;. • maintain a majority independent board of directors and fully independent audit, compensation and nominating and corporate governance committees, in compliance with the federal securities laws and the NYSE rules;. • institute more comprehensive compliance, investor relations and internal audit functions; and. • evaluate and maintain our system of internal control over financial reporting, and report on management's assessment thereof, in compliance with rules and regulations of the SEC and PCAOB.. In particular, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will require us to maintain disclosure controls and procedures and report on their effectiveness, and to maintain and document our internal control over financial reporting document and test their effectiveness in accordance with an established internal control framework, and, after our first Annual Report, to report on our conclusions as to the effectiveness of our internal controls. Likewise, once we are no longer an emerging growth company, our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to provide an attestation report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. As described in the previous risk factor, we expect to qualify as an emerging growth. 43. company and could potentially qualify as an emerging growth company until December 31, 2022. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation or in remediating any weaknesses discovered in the internal controls, could harm our operating results, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, or require us to restate our financial statements from prior periods. Any of these could lead investors to lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. This could result in a decrease in the value of our common stock. Failure to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could potentially subject us to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities.. We may not pay regular cash dividends on our common stock and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment may depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock.. Any decision to declare and pay dividends will be dependent on a variety of factors, including earnings, cash flow generation, financial position, results of operations, the terms of our indebtedness and other contractual restrictions, capital requirements, business prospects and other factors our board of directors may deem relevant. The terms of our indebtedness limit the ability of CFTC to pay dividends to CURO Group Holdings Corp., which would be necessary for us to pay dividends on our common stock. As a result, you should not rely on an investment in our common stock to provide dividend income and the success of an investment in our common stock may depend upon an appreciation in its value.. Future offerings of debt or equity securities may rank senior to our common stock and may result in dilution of your investment.. If we decide to issue debt securities in the future, which would rank senior to shares of our common stock, it is likely that they will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility. We and, indirectly, our stockholders will bear the cost of issuing and servicing such securities. We may also issue preferred equity, which will have superior rights relative to our common stock, including with respect to voting and liquidation.. Furthermore, if we raise additional capital by issuing new convertible or equity securities at a lower price than the initial public offering price, your interest will be diluted. This may result in the loss of all or a portion of your investment. If our future access to public markets is limited or our performance decreases, we may need to carry out a private placement or public offering of our common stock at a lower price than the initial public offering price.. Because our decision to issue debt, preferred or other equity or equity-linked securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, holders of our common stock will bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting the value of their shareholdings in us.. The market price of our common stock could be negatively affected by future sales of our common stock.. If we or our existing stockholders, our directors, their affiliates, or our executive officers, sell, or are perceived as intending to sell, a substantial number of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock could decrease significantly.. We, our executive officers and directors and certain of our significant stockholders have agreed with the underwriters not to dispose of or hedge any of the shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of our common stock during the period from the date of filing our prospectus continuing through the date that is 180 days after the date of the prospectus filing, except with the prior written consent of Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC and Jefferies LLC.. These shares of common stock will be freely tradable (subject to certain current public information requirements) after the expiration date of the lock-up agreements, excluding any acquired or held by persons who may be deemed to be our \"affiliates\" as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act, which will continue to be subject to the volume and other restrictions of Rule 144 under the Securities Act. At any time following our IPO, subject,. 44. however, to the 180-day lock-up agreement entered into with the underwriters, the holders of 33,862,572 shares of our common stock are entitled to require that we register their shares under the Securities Act for resale into the public markets. All shares sold pursuant to an offering covered by such registration statement would be freely transferable.. On December 8, 2017, we filed a registration statement on Form S-8 under the Securities Act registering 9,477,480 shares of our common stock reserved for future issuance under our equity incentive plans. Refer to Note 12 - \"Shared-Based Compensation\" and Note 21 - \"Benefit Plans\" for additional information concerning our equity incentive plans.. Provisions in our charter documents could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable.. Certain provisions in our governing documents could make a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us difficult, even if such events would be beneficial to the interests of our stockholders. Among other things, these provisions:. • permit our board of directors to establish the number of directors and fill any vacancies and newly created directorships;. • authorize the issuance of \"blank check\" preferred stock that our board of directors could use to implement a stockholder rights plan;. • provide that our board of directors is expressly authorized to amend or repeal any provision of our bylaws;. • restrict the forum for certain litigation against us to Delaware;. • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at annual stockholder meetings;. • establish a classified board of directors with three staggered classes of directors, where directors may only be removed for cause (unless we de-classify our board of directors);. • require that actions to be taken by our stockholders be taken only at an annual or special meeting of our stockholders, and not by written consent; and. • establish certain limitations on convening special stockholder meetings.. These provisions may delay or prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace members of our management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. These provisions also may delay, prevent or deter a merger, acquisition, tender offer, proxy contest or other transaction that might otherwise result in our stockholders receiving a premium over the market price for their common stock. We believe these provisions will protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers or investors aiming to effect changes in management to negotiate with our board of directors and by providing our board of directors with more time to assess any proposal. However, such anti-takeover provisions could also depress the price of our common stock by acting to delay or prevent a change in control of us.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the exclusive forum for substantially all disputes between us and our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or employees.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware is the exclusive forum for any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, any action asserting a breach of fiduciary duty, any action asserting a claim against us arising pursuant to the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or our amended and restated bylaws or any action asserting a claim against us that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine. This choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds. 45. favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees and may discourage these types of lawsuits.. The FFL Holders and Founder Holders will together own more than 50% of our common stock, and their interests may conflict with ours or yours in the future.. Investment funds associated with the FFL Holders and the Founder Holders beneficially owned approximately 28.67% and 44.81% of our common stock, respectively, as of December 31, 2017, or approximately 28.06% and 43.86%, respectively, after the underwriters exercised in full on January 5, 2018 their option to purchase additional shares. As a result, the FFL Holders and the Founder Holders collectively have the ability to elect all of the members of our board of directors and thereby control our policies and operations, including the appointment of management, future issuances of our common stock or other securities, the payment of dividends, if any, on our common stock, the incurrence or modification of debt by us, certain amendments to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, and the entering into of extraordinary transactions, and their interests may not in all cases be aligned with your interests. In addition, the FFL Holders together with Founder Holders may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures and other transactions that, in their respective judgment, could enhance their investment, even though such transactions might involve risks to you. For example, the FFL Holders together with the Founder Holders could cause us to make acquisitions that increase our indebtedness or cause us to sell revenue-generating assets.. The FFL Holders and the Founder Holders have entered into the Amended and Restated Investor Rights Agreement. See Note 15 - \"Stockholders' Equity\" to our Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report for additional information on the Investor Rights Agreement.. The FFL Holders and their affiliated funds are in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us.. Risks Relating to the Regulation of Our Industry. The CFPB promulgated new rules applicable to our loans that could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. The CFPB adopted a new rule applicable to payday vehicle title, and certain high-cost installment loans in November 2017, which we refer to as the CFPB Rule, with most provisions becoming effective 21 months after this CFPB Rule is published in the Federal Register (August 2019). See \"Regulatory Environment and Compliance - U.S. Regulations - U.S. Federal Regulations - CFPB Rule\" in Item 1. \"Business\" for additional information on the CFPB Rule.. This CFPB Rule establishes ability-to-repay, or ATR, requirements for \"covered short-term loans,\" such as our single-payment loans, and for \"covered longer-term balloon-payment loans,\" such as our revolving lines of credit, as currently structured. It establishes \"penalty fee prevention\" provisions that will apply to all of our loans, including our covered short-term loans, covered longer-term balloon-payment loans and our installment loans, which are \"covered longer-term loans\" under the CFPB Rule.. Covered short-term loans are consumer loans with a term of 45 days or less. Covered longer-term balloon payment loans include consumer loans with a term of more than 45 days where (i) the loan is payable in a single payment, (ii) any payment is more than twice any other payment, or (iii) the loan is a multiple advance loan that may not fully amortize by a specified date and the final payment could be more than twice the amount of other minimum payments. Covered longer-term loans are consumer loans with a term of more than 45 days where (i) the total cost of credit exceeds an annual rate of 36%, and (ii) the lender obtains a form of \"leveraged payment mechanism\" giving the lender a right to initiate transfers from the consumer's account. Post-dated checks, authorizations to initiate ACH payments and authorizations to initiate prepaid or debit card payments are all. 46. leveraged payment mechanisms under the CFPB Rule. While there are certain coverage exceptions - for example, an exception for typical pawn loans - they do not apply to our loans.. The ATR provisions of the CFPB Rule apply to covered short-term loans and covered longer-term balloon-payment loans but not to covered longer term loans. Under these provisions, to make a covered short-term loan or a covered longer-term balloon-payment loan, a lender has two options.. • A \"full payment test,\" under which the lender must make a reasonable determination of the consumer's ability to repay the loan in full and cover major financial obligations and living expenses over the term of the loan and the succeeding 30 days. Under this test, the lender must take account of the consumer's basic living expenses and obtain and generally verify evidence of the consumer's income and major financial obligations.. • A \"principal-payoff option,\" under which the lender may make up to three sequential loans, without engaging in an ATR analysis. The first of these so-called Section 1041.6 Loans in any sequence of Section 1041.6 Loans without a 30-day cooling off period between them is limited to $500, the second is limited to two-thirds of the first and the third is limited to one-third of the first. A lender may not use this option if (1) the consumer had in the past 30 days an outstanding covered short-term loan or an outstanding longer-term balloon-payment loan that is not a Section 1041.6 Loan, or (2) the new Section 1041.6 Loan would result in the consumer having more than six covered short-term loans (including Section 1041.6 Loans) during a consecutive 12-month period or being in debt for more than 90 days on such loans during a consecutive 12-month period. For Section 1041.6 Loans, the lender cannot take vehicle security or structure the loan as open-end credit.. We believe that conducting a comprehensive ATR analysis will be costly and that many of our short-term borrowers will not be able to pass a full payment test. Accordingly, we expect that the full payment test option will have little if any utility for us. The option to make Section 1041.6 Loans using the principal-payoff option may be more viable but the restrictions on these loans under the CFPB Rule will significantly reduce the permitted borrowings by individual consumers. There can be no assurance the ATR provisions will not have an adverse impact on individual customers' ability to borrow and our business.. The CFPB Rule's penalty fee prevention provisions, which will apply to all covered loans, may have a greater impact on our operations than the ATR provisions of the CFPB Rule. Under these provisions, if two consecutive attempts to collect money from a particular account of the borrower are unsuccessful due to insufficient funds, the lender cannot make any further attempts to collect from such account unless and until it provides notice of the unsuccessful attempts to the borrower and obtains from the borrower a new and specific authorization for additional payment transfers. Obtaining such authorization will be costly and in many cases not possible.. Additionally, the penalty fee prevention provisions will require the lender generally to give the consumer at least three business days advance notice before attempting to collect payment by accessing a consumer's checking, savings, or prepaid account. These requirements will necessitate revisions to our payment, customer notification, and compliance systems and create delays in initiating automated collection attempts where payments we initiate are initially unsuccessful.. In short, if and when the CFPB Rule goes into effect, the penalty fee prevention provisions will require substantial modifications in our current practices. These modifications would increase costs and reduce revenues. Accordingly, this aspect of the CFPB Rule could have a substantial adverse impact on our results of operations. However, as of the date hereof, these provisions will not become effective before August 2019, and the CFPB Rule remains subject to potential override by disapproval under the Congressional Review Act. Moreover, the current acting director could suspend, delay, modify or withdraw the CFPB Rule. Further, we expect that important elements of the CFPB Rule will be subject to legal attack, including application of the penalty fee provisions to card payments (where issuing banks do not charge penalty fees on declined transactions). Thus, it is impossible to predict whether and when the CFPB Rule (and the penalty fee provisions) will go into effect and, if so, whether and how it (and they) might be modified. While we will make every effort to be in compliance with the new CFPB. 47. Rule by August 2019, we make no assurances that we will be fully compliant by the time the rule becomes effective. See \"Business-U.S. Regulations-U.S. Federal Regulations-CFPB Rule.\". Our industry is strictly regulated everywhere we operate, and these regulations could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. We are subject to substantial regulation everywhere we operate. In the United States and Canada, our business is subject to a variety of statutes and regulations enacted by government entities at the federal, state or provincial, and municipal levels. In the United Kingdom, we are subject to statutes and regulations enacted by the U.K. government, as well as directly applicable European Union legislation. These regulations affect our business in many ways, and include regulations relating to:. • the amount we may charge in interest rates and fees;. • the terms of our loans (such as maximum and minimum durations), repayment requirements and limitations, number and frequency of loans, maximum loan amounts, renewals and extensions, required repayment plans and reporting and use of state-wide databases;. • underwriting requirements;. • collection and servicing activity, including initiation of payments from consumer accounts;. • the establishment and operation of credit services organizations or credit access businesses, which we refer to as CSOs and CABs in this Annual Report;. • licensing, reporting and document retention;. • unfair, deceptive and abusive acts and practices;. • non-discrimination requirements;. • disclosures, notices, advertising and marketing;. • loans to members of the military and their dependents;. • requirements governing electronic payments, transactions, signatures and disclosures;. • check cashing;. • money transmission;. • currency and suspicious activity recording and reporting;. • privacy and use of personally identifiable information and consumer data, including credit reports;. • anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing requirements, including currency and suspicious transaction recording and reporting;. • posting of fees and charges; and. • repossession practices in certain jurisdictions where we operate as a title lender, including requirements regarding notices and prompt remittance of excess proceeds for the sale of repossessed automobiles.. We provide a more detailed description of the regulations to which we are subject and the regulatory environment in the jurisdictions in which we operate under \"Regulatory Environment and Compliance.\". These regulations affect our business in many ways, including affecting the loans and other products we can offer, the prices we can charge, the other terms of our loans and other products, the customers to whom we are allowed to lend, how we obtain our customers, how we communicate with our customers, how we pursue repayment of our loans, and many others. Consequently, these restrictions adversely affect our loan volume, revenues, delinquencies and other aspects of our business, including our results of operations.. If we fail to adhere to applicable laws and regulations, we could be subject to fines, civil penalties and other relief that could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. The governmental entities that regulate our business have the ability to sanction us and obtain redress for violations of these regulations, either directly or through civil actions, in a variety of different ways, including:. 48. • ordering remedial or corrective actions, including changes to compliance systems, product terms, and other business operations;. • imposing fines or other monetary penalties, including for substantial amounts;. • ordering the payment of restitution, damages or other amounts to customers, including multiples of the amounts charged;. • disgorgement of revenue or profit from certain activities;. • imposing cease and desist orders, including orders requiring affirmative relief, targeting specific business activities;. • subjecting our operations to additional regulatory examinations during a remediation period;. • changes to our U.K. business practices in response to the requirements of the Financial Conduct Authority;. • revocation of licenses to operate in a particular jurisdiction;. • ordering the closure of one or more stores; and. • other consequences.. Many of the government entities that regulate us have the authority to examine us on a regular basis to determine whether we are complying with applicable laws and regulations and to identify and sanction non-compliance. In the United States, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, or CFPB, conducts examinations of our business, which include inspecting our books and records and inquiring about our business practices and policies, such as our marketing practices, loan application and origination practices, electronic payment practices, collection practices, and our supervision of our third-party service providers. The CFPB commenced its first examination of us in 2014 and issued its final report of examination in September 2015. The 2014 examination had no material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. The CFPB commenced its second examination of us in February 2017, and completed the related field work in June 2017. The scope of the 2017 examination included a review of our our Compliance Management System, our substantive compliance with applicable federal laws, and matters requiring attention. The 2017 examination had no material impact on our financial condition or results of operations, and we received the final CFPB Examination Report in February 2018.. During 2017, it was determined that a limited universe of borrowers may have incurred bank overdraft or non-sufficient funds fees because of possible borrower confusion about certain electronic payments we initiated on their loans. As a result, we have decided to reimburse those fees through payments or credits against outstanding loan balances, subject to per-customer dollar limitations, upon receipt of (i) claims from potentially affected borrowers stating that they were in fact confused by our practices and (ii) bank statements from such borrowers showing they incurred these fees at a time that they might reasonably have been confused about our practices.  Based on the terms of the reimbursement offer we we are currently considering, we have recorded a $2.0 million liability for this matter as of December 31, 2017. However, if we decide or are forced to modify the terms of the offer-for example, to eliminate or modify caps on per-borrower refunds or to make refunds to a larger universe of borrowers-the refund offer could have a greater impact than we currently anticipate.. We are subject to these types of examinations and audits on an ongoing basis from federal, state and provincial regulators. These examinations and audits increase the likelihood that any failure to comply (or perceived failure to comply) with applicable laws and regulations will be identified and sanctioned.. If we fail to comply with federal, state, provincial or local laws and regulations, or if supervisory or enforcement authorities believe we have failed to comply, we could suffer any of the actions listed above, including fines, penalties, consumer redress, disgorgement of profits, adverse changes to our business and being forced to cease operations in applicable jurisdictions. Any of these could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our compliance with applicable laws and regulations could also be challenged in class action lawsuits that could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. In addition to the anticipated refund offer, at least in part to meet CFPB expectations, we have made in recent years, and are continuing to make, certain enhancements to our compliance procedures and consumer. 49. disclosures. For example, we are in the process of evaluating our payment practices. Even in advance of the effective date of the CFPB Rule (and even if the CFPB Rule does not become effective), it is possible that we will make changes to these practices in a manner that will increase costs and/or reduce revenues.. The regulations to which we are subject change from time to time, and future changes, including some that have been proposed, could restrict us in ways that adversely affect our business and results of operations.. The laws and regulations to which we are subject change from time to time, and there has been a general increase in the volume and burden of laws and regulations that apply to us in the jurisdictions in which we operate, at the federal, state, provincial and municipal levels. We describe certain proposed laws and regulations that could apply to our business in greater detail under \"Business\" elsewhere in this Annual Report.. At the U.S. federal level for example, in 2017 the CFPB adopted the CFPB Rule and a final rule prohibiting the use of mandatory arbitration clauses with class action waivers in consumer financial services contracts, or the CFPB Anti-Arbitration Rule. Congress overturned the CFPB Anti-Arbitration Rule on October 24, 2017, and the President signed the joint resolution on November 1, 2017 to repeal the rule. Additionally, the CFPB has announced tentative plans to propose rules affecting debt collection, debt accuracy and verification. Also, during the past few years, legislation, ballot initiatives and regulations have been proposed or adopted in various states that would prohibit or severely restrict our short-term consumer lending. We, along with others in the short-term consumer loan industry, intend to continue to inform and educate federal, state and local legislators and regulators and to oppose legislative or regulatory actions and ballot initiatives that would prohibit or severely restrict short-term consumer loans. Nevertheless, if changes in law with that effect were taken nationwide or in states in which we have a significant number of stores, such changes could have a material adverse effect on our loan-related activities and revenues.. In Canada, most of the provinces have proposed or enacted legislation or regulations that limit the amount that lenders offering single-pay loans may charge or that limit certain business practices of single-pay lenders. Some provinces have also proposed or enacted legislation or regulations that impose a higher regulatory burden on installment loans or open-end loans that are determined to be \"high cost.\" In the United Kingdom, Parliament and the applicable regulatory bodies have been expanding laws and regulations applicable to our industry, including proposals that would expand rules of conduct and similar duties of responsibility to certain senior managers and other employees of our businesses and that could change the price cap applicable to certain consumer loans, including the scope of loans subject to the cap. There are also forthcoming regulatory changes due to come into force in 2018 relating to the implementation of new EU data protection and anti-money laundering laws in the United Kingdom, to replace or supplement U.K. legislation in these areas. Compliance with the new regulations is expected to be more onerous than the existing regime.. We expect that the interest in increasing the regulation of our industry will continue. It is possible that the laws and regulations currently proposed, or other future laws and regulations, will be enacted and will adversely affect our pricing, product mix, compliance costs, or other business activities in a way that is detrimental to our results of operations.. Existing or new local regulation of our industry could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. In recent years, a number of local laws have been passed by municipalities that regulate aspects of our business. For example, a number of municipalities have sought to use zoning and occupancy regulations to limit consumer lending storefronts. If additional local laws are passed that affect our business, this could materially restrict our business operations, increase our compliance costs or exacerbate the risks associated with the complexity of our regulatory environment.. Approximately 45 different Texas municipalities have enacted ordinances that regulate aspects of products offered under our credit access business or CAB programs, including loan sizes and repayment terms. The Texas. 50. ordinances have forced us to make substantial changes to the loan products we offer and have resulted in litigation initiated by the City of Austin challenging the terms of our modified loan products. We believe that: (i) the Austin ordinance (like its counterparts elsewhere in the state) conflicts with Texas state law and (ii) our product in any event complies with the ordinance, when it is properly construed. The Austin Municipal Court agreed with our position that the ordinance conflicts with Texas law and, accordingly, did not address our second argument. In September 2017, the Travis County court reversed this decision and remanded the case to the Municipal Court for further proceedings consistent with its opinion (including, presumably, a decision on our second argument). However, in October 2017 we appealed the County Court's decision. Accordingly, we will not have a final determination of the lawfulness of our CAB program under the Austin ordinance (and similar ordinances in other Texas cities) for some time. A final adverse decision could potentially result in material monetary liability in Austin and elsewhere and would force us to restructure the loans we arrange in Texas.. The regulatory environment in which we operate is very complex, which increases our costs of compliance and the risk that we may fail to comply in ways that adversely affect our business.. The regulatory environment in which we operate is very complex, with applicable regulations being enacted by multiple agencies at each level of government. Accordingly, our regulatory requirements, and consequently, the actions we must take to comply with regulations, vary considerably among the many jurisdictions where we operate. Managing this complex regulatory environment is difficult and requires considerable compliance efforts. It is costly to operate in this environment, and it is possible that our costs of compliance will increase materially over time. This complexity also increases the risks that we will fail to comply with regulations in a way that could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Judicial decisions could potentially render our arbitration agreements unenforceable.. We include pre-dispute arbitration provisions in our loan agreements. These provisions are designed to allow us to resolve any customer disputes through individual arbitration rather than in court. Our arbitration provisions explicitly provide that all arbitrations will be conducted on an individual and not on a class basis. Thus, our arbitration agreements, if enforced, have the effect of shielding us from class action liability.. In July 2017, the CFPB issued the CFPB Anti-Arbitration Rule, designed to prohibit the use of mandatory arbitration clauses with class action waivers in agreements for consumer financial services products, effective as to agreements entered into on or after March 19, 2018. However, the Anti-Arbitration Rule was overturned by Congress on October 24, 2017, and the President signed the joint resolution on November 1, 2017 to repeal the rule. Assuming the President consents to the override, the rule will not become effective, and, pursuant to the Congressional Review Act, substantially similar rules may only be reissued with specific legislative authorization.. Our use of pre-dispute arbitration provisions will remain dependent on whether courts continue to enforce these provisions. We take the position that the Federal Arbitration Act, or the FAA, requires that arbitration agreements containing class action waivers of the type we use be enforced in accordance with their terms. In the past, a number of courts, including the California and Nevada Supreme Courts, have concluded that arbitration agreements with class action waivers are \"unconscionable\" and hence unenforceable, particularly where a small dollar amount is in controversy on an individual basis. However, in April 2011, the U.S. Supreme Court in a 5-4 decision in AT&T Mobility v. Concepcion held that the FAA preempts state laws that would otherwise invalidate consumer arbitration agreements with class action waivers. Our arbitration agreements differ in some respects from the agreement at issue in Concepcion, and some courts have continued since Concepcion to find reasons to find arbitration agreements unenforceable. Thus, it is possible that one or more courts could use the differences between our arbitration agreements and the agreement at issue in Concepcion as a basis for a refusal to enforce our arbitration agreements, particularly if such courts are hostile to our kind of lending or to pre-dispute mandatory consumer arbitration agreements. Further, it is possible that a change in composition at the U.S. Supreme Court, including the replacement of Justice Scalia by Justice Gorsuch, could result in a change in the U.S. Supreme Court's treatment of arbitration agreements under the FAA. If our arbitration agreements were to become unenforceable for some reason, we could experience an increase to our costs to litigate and settle customer. 51. disputes and exposure to potentially damaging class action lawsuits, with a potential material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Current and future legal, class action and administrative proceedings directed towards our industry or us may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. We have been the subject of administrative proceedings and lawsuits in the past, and may be involved in future proceedings, lawsuits or other claims. Other companies in our industry have also been subject to regulatory proceedings, class action lawsuits and other litigation regarding the offering of consumer loans. We could be adversely affected by interpretations of state, federal, foreign and provincial laws in those legal and regulatory proceedings, even if we are not a party to those proceedings. We anticipate that lawsuits and enforcement proceedings involving our industry, and potentially involving us, will continue to be brought in the future.. We may incur significant expenses associated with the defense or settlement of current or future lawsuits, the potential exposure for which is uncertain. The adverse resolution of legal or regulatory proceedings, whether by judgment or settlement, could force us to refund fees and interest collected, refund the principal amount of advances, pay damages or other monetary penalties or modify or terminate our operations in particular local, state, provincial or federal jurisdictions. The defense of such legal proceedings, even if successful, requires significant time and attention from our senior officers and other management personnel that would otherwise be spent on other aspects of our business, and requires the expenditure of substantial amounts for legal fees and other related costs. Settlement of proceedings may also result in significant cash payouts, foregoing future revenues and modifications to our operations. Additionally, an adverse judgment or settlement in a lawsuit or regulatory proceeding could in certain circumstances provide a basis for the termination, non-renewal, suspension or denial of a license required for us to do business in a particular jurisdiction (or multiple jurisdictions). A sufficiently serious violation of law in one jurisdiction or with respect to one product could have adverse licensing consequences in other jurisdictions and/or with respect to other products. Thus, legal and enforcement proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our business, future results of operations, financial condition and our ability to service our debt obligations.. Public perception of our business and products as being predatory or abusive could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Certain consumer advocacy groups, politicians, government officials and media organizations promote the view that short-term single-payment loans and other alternative financial services like those we offer are predatory or abusive toward consumers. Widespread adoption of this opinion could potentially have negative consequences for our business, including lawsuits, adverse legislative or regulatory changes, difficulty attracting and retaining qualified employees, decreased demand for our products and services and reluctance or refusal of other parties, such as banks or other electronic payment processors, to transact business with us. These consequences could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations.. Material modifications of U.S. laws and regulations and existing trade agreements by the new U.S. presidential administration could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The U.S. presidential administration may initiate significant changes in U.S. laws and regulations and existing international trade agreements, including the North American Free Trade Agreement, and these changes could affect a wide variety of industries and businesses, including those businesses we own and operate. It remains unclear what the new U.S. presidential administration will do, if anything, with respect to existing laws, regulations or trade agreements. If the new presidential administration materially modifies U.S. laws and regulations and international trade agreements this could adversely affect our business and results of operations."
