[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Financial Condition and Capital Requirements. We will need additional capital in the future to sufficiently fund our operations and research.. We have incurred significant net losses in each year since our inception, including a net loss of approximately $27.6 million and $26.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2017, and 2016, respectively. We anticipate that we will continue to incur significant losses for the foreseeable future, and we may never achieve or maintain profitability. As of December 31, 2017, we had cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of approximately $97.2 million. In January 2018 we received proceeds of $5.0 million from our license agreement with Kowa, and in February 2018 we completed the issuance of 13,340,000 shares of our common stock at a public offering price of $10.80 per share in an underwritten public offering raising net proceeds of $135.5 million. We believe that these funds, in the aggregate will allow us to continue operation with our current operating plan into 2021. If appropriate opportunities become available, we intend to seek to raise additional equity and/or debt capital to fund our continued operations, including clinical trials and other product development. Our monthly spending levels vary based on new and ongoing development and corporate activities. Developing pharmaceutical products, including conducting preclinical studies and clinical trials, is a time-consuming, expensive and uncertain process that takes years to complete. We expect our research and development expenses to increase in connection with our ongoing activities, particularly as we advance development of our lead clinical product candidate seladelpar (MBX-8025).. In the event we do not successfully raise sufficient funds in financing our product development activities, particularly related to the ongoing development of seladelpar, it will be necessary to curtail our product development activities commensurate with the magnitude of the shortfall or our product development activities may cease altogether. To the extent that the costs of the ongoing development of seladelpar exceed our current estimates and we are unable to raise sufficient additional capital to cover such additional costs, we will need to reduce operating expenses, enter into a collaboration or other similar arrangement with respect to development and/or commercialization rights to seladelpar, out-license intellectual property rights to seladelpar, sell assets or effect a combination of the above. No assurance can be given that we will be able to effect any of such transactions on acceptable terms, if at all. Failure to progress the development of seladelpar will have a negative effect on our business, future prospects and ability to obtain further financing on acceptable terms (if at all).. Beyond the plan of operations outlined above, our future funding requirements and sources will depend on many factors, including but not limited to the following:. •  the rate of progress and cost of our clinical studies, including in particular the Phase 2 and Phase 3 studies of seladelpar;. •  the extent to which we receive the milestone payments and royalties under our licensing agreement with Kowa;. •  the extent to which we are able to out-license arhalofenate outside of the United States;. 26. •  the need for additional or expanded clinical studies;. •  the rate of progress and cost of our Chemistry, Manufacturing and Control development, registration and validation program;. •  the timing, economic and other terms of any licensing, collaboration or other similar arrangement into which we may enter;. •  the costs and timing of seeking and obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals;. •  the extent of our other development activities;. •  the costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights; and. •  the effect of competing products and market developments.. If we are unable to raise additional capital in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us, we will be prevented from pursuing development and commercialization efforts, which will have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and prospects and on our ability to develop our product candidates.. We are dependent on our partner, Kowa Pharmaceuticals America, Inc., for the successful development, regulatory approval and commercialization of arhalofenate in the United States.. In December 2016, we entered into an exclusive licensing agreement with Kowa Pharmaceuticals America, Inc., or Kowa, for the development and commercialization of arhalofenate in the U.S. (including all possessions and territories). The terms of our licensing agreement with Kowa provide them with exclusive authority over the development and commercialization plans for arhalofenate in the U.S. and the execution of those plans. We have no effective influence over those plans and are dependent on Kowa's decision making. In January 2018 we received a $5.0 million milestone from Kowa for the initiation of a study evaluating the pharmacokinetics of arhalofenate in subjects with renal impairment. Under the license agreement, Kowa has also agreed to pay an additional milestone payment of $5.0 million on the initiation of Phase 3, and we are eligible to receive up to an additional $190.0 million in payments based upon the achievement of additional development and sales milestones. We are also eligible to receive tiered, double digit royalties on future sales of arhalofenate products.. We are dependent upon Kowa to develop arhalofenate further. Any significant changes to Kowa's business strategy and priorities, over which we have no control, could adversely affect Kowa's willingness or ability to complete their obligations under our licensing agreement and could result in harm to our business and operations. Subject to contractual diligence obligations, Kowa has complete control over and financial responsibility for arhalofenate's development program and regulatory strategy and execution, and we are not able to control the amount or timing of resources that Kowa will devote to the product. If Kowa does not diligently pursue the development or commercialization of arhalofenate, we will not receive any further payments under the licensing agreement and our ability to derive value from arhalofenate will be seriously harmed. Further, regardless of Kowa's efforts and expenditures for the further development of arhalofenate, the results of such additional clinical investigation may not provide positive results and may not result in a commercial product due to regulatory or other reasons similar to those described below with respect to seladelpar.. The current plan is to use arhalofenate in combination with febuxostat, a treatment for gout currently marketed by Takeda Pharmaceuticals. However, in November 2017, the FDA issued an alert noting that preliminary results from a safety clinical trial of febuxostat showed an increased risk of heart-related death with febuxostat compared to another gout medicine called allopurinol. The FDA recommended that health care professionals consider this safety information when deciding whether to prescribe or continue patients on febuxostat. It is not known whether this safety information and/or the FDA alert will have a significant impact on the continued use of febuxostat.  Reduced use of febuxostat could have a significant negative affect on the development prospects of arhalofenate and could negatively impact the willingness or ability of Kowa to continue development of arhalofenate. 27. We do not intend to invest further in the development and commercialization of arhalofenate, and currently intend to out-license the rights to arhalofenate outside of the United States.. In December 2016, we entered into an exclusive licensing agreement with Kowa for the development and commercialization of arhalofenate in the U.S. (including all possessions and territories). We currently intend to out-license the development and commercialization of arhalofenate outside of the U.S., and do not intend to invest further in the development and commercialization of arhalofenate. However, there is no guarantee that our efforts to out-license arhalofenate in countries outside of the U.S. will result in any licensing agreements or, if they do result in licensing agreements, that we will derive any value from those agreements. The terms of those licensing agreements, if any, we expect will provide the licensee with exclusive authority over the development and commercialization plans for arhalofenate in the jurisdiction(s) covered by the licensing agreement, and that we will have no influence over the actions of the licensees and will be dependent on their decision making. In the event that we are not able to enter into any further license agreements, or the licensees' do not, or are not able to, develop or commercialize arhalofenate in their respective jurisdictions, our ability to derive further value from arhalofenate will be seriously harmed.. Our ability to generate future revenues from product sales is uncertain and depends upon our ability to successfully develop, obtain regulatory approval for, and commercialize our product candidates.. Our ability to generate revenue and achieve profitability depends on our ability, alone or with collaborators, to successfully complete the development of, obtain the necessary regulatory approvals for, and commercialize, our product candidates. We do not anticipate generating revenues from sales of our product candidates for the foreseeable future, if ever. Our ability to generate future revenues from product sales depends heavily on our success in:. •  the performance of Kowa under our licensing agreement, including whether development milestones and regulatory approvals regarding arhalofenate are achieved;. •  our ability to out-license arhalofenate in jurisdictions outside of the United States;. •  obtaining favorable results for, and advancing the development of, seladelpar; and. •  generating a pipeline of product candidates.. Conducting preclinical testing and clinical trials is a time-consuming, expensive and uncertain process that takes years to complete, and we may never generate the necessary data required to obtain regulatory approval and achieve product sales. Our anticipated development costs would likely increase if we do not obtain favorable results or if development of our product candidates is delayed. In particular, we would likely incur higher costs than we currently anticipate if development of our product candidates is delayed because we are required by a regulatory authority such as the U.S. FDA to perform studies or trials in addition to those that we currently anticipate. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with pharmaceutical product development, we are unable to predict the timing or amount of any increase in our anticipated development costs.. In addition, our product candidates, if approved, may not achieve commercial success. Our commercial revenues, if any, will be derived from sales of products that we do not expect to be commercially available for several years, if at all. Even if one or more of our product candidates is approved for commercial sale, we anticipate incurring significant costs in connection with commercialization. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to generate revenues from sales of any approved product candidates, or that we will achieve or maintain profitability even if we do generate sales.. Raising additional capital may cause dilution to our existing stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish rights to our technologies or product candidates.. Until such time, if ever, as we can generate substantial product revenues, we expect to finance our cash needs through a combination of equity offerings, debt financings, collaborations, strategic alliances, licensing arrangements and other marketing and distribution arrangements. If appropriate opportunities become available, we intend to seek to raise additional equity and/or debt capital to fund our continued operations, including clinical trials and other product development. We do not have any committed external source of funds.. 28. In order to raise additional funds to support our operations, we may sell additional equity or debt securities, enter into collaborations, strategic alliances, or licensing arrangements or other marketing or distribution arrangements. In July 2015, we completed the issuance of 8,188,000 shares of our common stock at a public offering price of $2.81 per share and in February 2017, we completed the issuance of 5,181,348 shares of our commons stock at a public offering price of $1.93 per share in underwritten public offerings. In January 2017, we issued 124,100 shares at a public offering price of $2.48 per share under our at-the-market facility. Also, in July 2017 we completed the issuance of 14,950,000 shares of our common stock at a public offering price of $6.50 per share and in February 2018, we completed the issuance of 13,340,000 shares of our common stock at a public offering price of $10.80 in underwritten public offerings. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, ownership interests of our stockholders will be diluted, and the terms of these securities may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect the rights of stockholders. Debt financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures, and declaring dividends, and may impose limitations on our ability to acquire, sell or license intellectual property rights and other operating restrictions that could adversely impact our ability to conduct our business.. If we raise additional funds through collaborations, strategic alliances, or licensing arrangements or other marketing or distribution arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our intellectual property, technologies, future revenue streams, research programs or product candidates, or grant licenses on terms that may not be favorable to us. For example, in December 2016 we entered into an agreement to license our right to develop and commercialize arhalofenate for the treatment of gout in the U.S. in exchange for consideration including (i) a $5.0 million upfront payment, (ii) a $5.0 million milestone payment for the initiation of a study evaluating the pharmacokinetics of arhalofenate in subjects with renal impairment, (iii) eligibility to receive an additional milestone payment of $5.0 million on the initiation of Phase 3, as well as (iv) up to an additional $190.0 million in payments based upon the achievement of additional development and sales milestones and (v) tiered, double digit royalties on any product sales.. If we are unable to expand our operations or otherwise capitalize on our business opportunities, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected and we may not be able to meet our debt service obligations. If we are unable to raise additional funds through equity or debt financings when needed, we may be required to delay, limit, reduce or terminate our product development or commercialization efforts, or grant others rights to develop and market product candidates that we would otherwise prefer to develop and market ourselves.. We are an emerging growth company and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common stock less attractive to investors.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act. Under the JOBS Act, emerging growth companies can delay adopting new or revised accounting standards issued subsequent to the enactment of the JOBS Act until such time as those standards apply to private companies.  However, we have irrevocably elected not to avail ourselves of this exemption from new or revised accounting standards, and, therefore, are subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not emerging growth companies.. For as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, we do intend to take advantage of certain other exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies including, but not limited to, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory stockholder vote on executive compensation and any golden parachute payments not previously approved, exemption from the requirement of auditor attestation in the assessment of our internal control over financial reporting and exemption from any requirement that may be adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board regarding mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditor's report providing additional information about the audit and the financial statements (auditor discussion and analysis). As a result of our reliance on these exemption, the information that we provide stockholders may be different than what is available with respect to other public companies. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive because we will rely on these exemptions. If investors find our common stock less attractive as a result of our status as an emerging growth company, there may be less liquidity for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile.. 29. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earliest of (i) the end of the fiscal year in which the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the end of the second fiscal quarter, (ii) the end of the fiscal year in which we have total annual gross revenues of $1 billion or more during such fiscal year, (iii) the date on which we issue more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt in a three-year period or (iv) the end of 2019.. Risks Related to Clinical Development and Regulatory Approval. We depend on the success of our product candidates, in particular seladelpar, which is still under clinical development and we may not obtain regulatory approval or successfully commercialize this product candidate.. We have not marketed, distributed or sold any products. The success of our business depends upon our ability to develop and commercialize our product candidates, including seladelpar, which has completed multiple Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical trials. There is no guarantee that our clinical trials will be completed or, if completed, will be successful. In July 2017, we announced positive interim results from an ongoing low-dose Phase 2 study of seladelpar in patients with PBC. During the fourth quarter of 2017, we initiated enrollment in a long-term extension study of seladelpar in patients with PBC. The success of seladelpar will depend on many factors, including the following:. •  successful enrollment and completion of clinical trials;. •  recognition by the FDA and other regulatory authorities outside of the U.S. of orphan disease designation for seladelpar in target indications in addition to those already obtained;. •  receipt of marketing approvals from the FDA and regulatory authorities outside the U.S. for seladelpar;. •  establishing commercial manufacturing capabilities by making arrangements with third-party manufacturers;. •  launching commercial sales of the product, whether alone or in collaboration with others;. •  acceptance of the product by patients, the medical community and third-party payors;. •  effectively competing with other therapies;. •  a continued acceptable safety profile of the product following approval; and. •  obtaining, maintaining, enforcing and defending intellectual property rights and claims.. If we do not achieve one or more of these factors in a timely manner or at all, we could experience significant delays or an inability to successfully commercialize seladelpar, which would materially harm our business.. We depend on the successful completion of clinical trials for our product candidates, including seladelpar. The positive clinical results obtained for our product candidates in prior clinical studies may not be repeated in future clinical studies.. Before obtaining regulatory approval for the sale of our product candidates, including seladelpar, we must conduct additional clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our product candidates in humans. Clinical testing is expensive, difficult to design and implement, can take many years to complete and is uncertain as to outcome. A failure of one or more of our clinical trials can occur at any stage of testing. The outcome of preclinical testing and early clinical trials may not be predictive of the success of later clinical trials, and interim results of a clinical trial do not necessarily predict final results. Moreover, preclinical and clinical data are often susceptible to varying interpretations and analyses, and many companies that have believed their product candidates performed satisfactorily in preclinical studies and clinical trials have nonetheless failed to obtain marketing approval for their products.. We have completed numerous Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical studies with seladelpar. However, we have never conducted a Phase 3 clinical trial, have never obtained regulatory approval for a drug and we may be unable to obtain, or may be delayed in obtaining, regulatory approval for seladelpar. Product candidates in later stages of clinical trials may fail to show the desired safety and efficacy characteristics despite having progressed satisfactorily. 30. through preclinical studies and initial clinical testing. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, including those with greater resources and experience, have suffered significant setbacks in Phase 3 clinical development, even after seeing promising results in earlier clinical trials.. We may experience a number of unforeseen events during clinical trials for our product candidates, including seladelpar, that could delay or prevent the commencement and/or completion of our clinical trials, including the following:. •  regulators or institutional review boards may not authorize us or our investigators to commence a clinical trial or conduct a clinical trial at a prospective trial site;. •  the clinical study protocol may require one or more amendments delaying study completion;. •  clinical trials of our product candidates may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical trials or abandon product development programs;. •  the number of subjects required for clinical trials of our product candidates may be larger than we anticipate, enrollment in these clinical trials may be insufficient or slower than we anticipate or subjects may drop out of these clinical trials at a higher rate than we anticipate;. •  clinical investigators or study subjects fail to comply with clinical study protocols;. •  trial conduct and data analysis errors may occur, including, but not limited to, data entry and/or labeling errors;. •  our third-party contractors may fail to comply with regulatory requirements or meet their contractual obligations to us in a timely manner, or at all;. •  we might have to suspend or terminate clinical trials of our product candidates for various reasons, including a finding that the subjects are being exposed to unacceptable health risks;. •  regulators or institutional review boards may require that we or our investigators suspend or terminate clinical research for various reasons, including noncompliance with regulatory requirements;. •  the cost of clinical trials of our product candidates may be greater than we anticipate;. •  the supply or quality of our clinical trial materials or other materials necessary to conduct clinical trials of our product candidates may be insufficient or inadequate; and. •  our product candidates may have undesirable side effects or other unexpected characteristics, causing us or our investigators to suspend or terminate the trials.. We expect our research and development expenses to increase in connection with our ongoing activities, particularly as we undertake additional clinical trials of seladelpar. We also will need to raise substantial additional capital in the future to complete the development and commercialization of seladelpar. Because successful development of our product candidates is uncertain, we are unable to estimate the actual funds required to complete research and development and commercialize our products under development.. Negative or inconclusive results of our future clinical trials of seladelpar, or any other clinical trial we conduct, could cause the FDA to require that we repeat or conduct additional clinical studies. If later stage clinical trials do not produce favorable results, our ability to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates may be adversely impacted.. We have commenced testing of seladelpar in clinical studies for the indications that we are currently pursuing for seladelpar, including Primary Biliary Cholangitis (PBC)). If seladelpar does not demonstrate safety or efficacy in the treatment, or if the benefits of treatment with seladelpar do not outweigh the risks, our ability to successfully develop and commercialize seladelpar may be adversely affected.. We commenced clinical trials of seladelpar for the indications for which we currently are pursuing, including PBC and seladelpar may not be demonstrated to be effective in treatment of this or other indications we may target.. 31. For instance, in May 2016, we announced results from a Phase 2 clinical study of seladelpar in patients with primary biliary cholangitis (PBC). We made the decision to discontinue the study early after review of safety and efficacy data demonstrated clear proof-of-concept and need for further dose reduction to optimize clinical safety and efficacy. In December 2016, we initiated a dose-ranging Phase 2 trial of seladelpar at lower doses in patients with PBC. In March 2016, we completed a Phase 2 clinical study evaluating seladelpar in 13 patients with HoFH. However, as a result of the variability in responses observed in this study, including a number of patients that did not experience a decrease in LDL-C, we believe additional proof-of-concept data would be warranted before determining whether or not to advance to a registration study of seladelpar in patients with HoFH. Although we believe that seladelpar may be beneficial to address the diseases for which we are considering redirecting its development, there is no guarantee that seladelpar will prove to be safe or efficacious in the treatment of these diseases, or that we will be able to obtain regulatory approval for these indications. The results of these clinical studies and other nonclinical studies may determine whether the benefits perceived from the use of seladelpar would outweigh the risks perceived from treatment with seladelpar.. Delays in clinical trials are common and have many causes, and any delay could result in increased costs to us and jeopardize or delay our ability to obtain regulatory approval and commence product sales.. Clinical testing is expensive, difficult to design and implement, can take many years to complete, and is uncertain as to outcome. We may experience delays in clinical trials at any stage of development and testing of our product candidates. Our planned clinical trials may not begin on time, have an effective design, enroll a sufficient number of subjects, or be completed on schedule, if at all.. Events that may result in delays or unsuccessful completion of clinical trials, including our future clinical trials for seladelpar, include the following:. •  inability to raise funding necessary to initiate or continue a trial;. •  delays in obtaining regulatory approval to commence a trial;. •  delays in reaching agreement with the FDA or other regulatory authorities on final trial design;. •  imposition of a clinical hold following an inspection of our clinical trial operations or trial sites by the FDA or other regulatory authorities;. •  delays in reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective contract research organizations (CROs) and clinical trial sites;. •  delays in obtaining required institutional review board (IRB) approval at each site;. •  delays in recruiting suitable patients to participate in a trial;. •  delays in having subjects complete participation in a trial or return for post-treatment follow-up;. •  delays caused by subjects dropping out of a trial due to side effects or otherwise;. •  delays caused by clinical sites dropping out of a trial;. •  time required to add new clinical sites; and. •  delays by our contract manufacturers to produce and deliver sufficient supply of clinical trial materials.. If initiation or completion of any of our clinical trials for our product candidates, including seladelpar, is delayed for any of the above reasons, our development costs may increase, the approval process could be delayed, any periods during which we may have the exclusive right to commercialize our product candidates may be reduced and our competitors may bring products to market before us. Any of these events could impair our ability to generate revenues from product sales and impair our ability to generate regulatory and commercialization milestones and royalties, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. 32. Our product candidates may cause adverse effects or have other properties that could delay or prevent their regulatory approval or limit the scope of any approved label or market acceptance.. In May 2016, we announced results from a Phase 2 clinical study of seladelpar in patients with PBC. During the course of this trial three cases of asymptomatic, reversible transaminase elevations occurred, and we made the decision to discontinue the study early after review of safety and efficacy data demonstrated a need for further dose reduction to optimize clinical safety and efficacy. The emergence of adverse events (AEs) caused by seladelpar in future studies, including at lower doses, could cause us, other reviewing entities, clinical study sites or regulatory authorities to interrupt, delay or halt clinical studies and could result in the denial of regulatory approval. There is also a risk that our other product candidates may induce AEs, many of which may be unknown at this time. If an unacceptable frequency and/or severity of AEs are reported in our clinical trials for our product candidates, our ability to obtain regulatory approval for product candidates, including seladelpar, may be negatively impacted.. Furthermore, if any of our approved products cause serious or unexpected side effects after receiving market approval, a number of potentially significant negative consequences could result, including the following:. •  regulatory authorities may withdraw their approval of the product or impose restrictions on its distribution in a form of a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy (REMS);. •  regulatory authorities may require the addition of labeling statements, such as warnings or contraindications that could diminish the usage of the product or otherwise limit the commercial success of the affected product;. •  we may be required to change the way the product is administered or to conduct additional clinical studies;. •  we may choose to discontinue sale of the product;. •  we could be sued and held liable for harm caused to patients; and. •  our reputation may suffer.. Any of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected product and could substantially increase the costs of commercializing our product candidates.. We have obtained orphan drug designation for some of the targeted indications for seladelpar but not all possible indications for which we may seek approval and we may not be able to obtain or maintain orphan designation or obtain the benefits associated with orphan drug status, including market exclusivity.. Regulatory authorities in some jurisdictions, including the United States and the European Union, or EU, may designate drugs for relatively small patient populations as orphan drugs. Under the Orphan Drug Act of 1983, as amended, the FDA may designate a drug as an orphan drug if it is intended to treat a rare disease or condition, which is generally defined as a patient population of fewer than 200,000 individuals annually in the United States. Generally, if a drug with an orphan drug designation subsequently receives the first marketing approval for the indication for which it has such designation, the drug is entitled to a period of marketing exclusivity, which precludes the FDA or the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, from approving another marketing application for the same drug for that time period. The applicable period is seven years in the United States and ten years in the European Union. The EU exclusivity period can be reduced to six years if a drug no longer meets the criteria for orphan drug designation or if the drug is sufficiently profitable so that market exclusivity is no longer justified. Orphan drug exclusivity may be lost if the FDA or EMA determines that the request for designation was materially defective or if the manufacturer is unable to assure sufficient quantity of the drug to meet the needs of patients with the rare disease or condition. In addition, the orphan drug designation does not convey any advantage in, or shorten the duration of, the regulatory review or approval process. Also, regulatory approval for any product candidate may be withdrawn and other candidates may obtain approval before us.. 33. We have obtained orphan-drug designations for seladelpar for the treatments of PBC, HoFH and Frederickson Type I or V hyperlipoproteinemia. That exclusivity, or any other orphan exclusivity we may receive for another product candidate or indication, may not effectively protect the candidate from competition because: different drugs can be approved for the same condition; the same drugs can be approved for different indications and prescribed off-label; and the first entity with an orphan drug designation to receive regulatory approval for a particular indication will receive marketing exclusivity. If one of our product candidates that receives an orphan drug designation, including seladelpar, is approved for a particular indication or use within the rare disease or condition, the FDA may later approve the same product for additional indications or uses within that rare disease or condition that are not protected by our exclusive approval. Even after an orphan drug is approved, the FDA can subsequently approve another drug for the same condition if the FDA concludes that the later drug is clinically superior in that it is shown to be safer in a substantial portion of the target population, more effective or makes a major contribution to patient care.. If any product candidate that we successfully develop does not achieve broad market acceptance among physicians, patients, health care payors and the medical community, the revenues that it generates from its sales will be limited.. Even if seladelpar or any other product candidates receive regulatory approval, the products may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, health care payors and the medical community. Coverage and reimbursement of our product candidates by third-party payors, including government payors, generally is also necessary for commercial success. The degree of market acceptance of any of our approved products will depend upon a number of factors, including:. •  the efficacy and safety, as demonstrated in clinical studies;. •  the risk/benefit profile of our product candidates such as seladelpar;. •  the prevalence and severity of any side effects;. •  the clinical indications for which the product is approved;. •  acceptance of the product by physicians, other health care providers and patients as a safe and effective treatment;. •  the potential and perceived advantages of product candidates over alternative treatments;. •  the safety of product candidates seen in a broader patient group, including if physicians prescribe our products for uses outside the approved indications;. •  the cost of treatment in relation to alternative treatments;. •  the timing of market introduction of competitive products;. •  the availability of adequate reimbursement and pricing by third parties and government authorities;. •  relative convenience and ease of administration; and. •  the effectiveness of our or our partners' sales, marketing and distribution efforts.. If any product candidate is approved but does not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by physicians, hospitals, health care payors and patients, we may not generate sufficient revenue from these products and we may not become or remain profitable.. Potential conflicts of interest arising from relationships and any related compensation with respect to clinical studies could adversely affect the process.. Principal investigators for our clinical studies may serve as scientific advisors or consultants to us from time to time and receive cash compensation in connection with such services. If these relationships and any related compensation result in perceived or actual conflicts of interest, the integrity of the data generated at the applicable clinical study site may be questioned or jeopardized.. 34. We may be subject to costly claims related to our clinical studies and may not be able to obtain adequate insurance.. Because we conduct clinical studies in humans, we face the risk that the use of seladelpar or future product candidates will result in adverse side effects. We cannot predict the possible harms or side effects that may result from our clinical studies. Although we have clinical study liability insurance, our insurance may be insufficient to cover any such events. There is also a risk that we may not be able to continue to obtain clinical study coverage on acceptable terms. In addition, we may not have sufficient resources to pay for any liabilities resulting from a claim excluded from, or beyond the limit of, our insurance coverage. There is also a risk that third parties that we have agreed to indemnify could incur liability. Any litigation arising from our clinical studies, even if we are ultimately successful, would consume substantial amounts of our financial and managerial resources and may create adverse publicity.. After the completion of our clinical trials, we cannot predict whether or when we will obtain regulatory approval to commercialize our product candidates and we cannot, therefore, predict the timing of any future revenue from our product candidates. Regulatory approval of an NDA is not guaranteed, and the approval process is expensive, uncertain and lengthy.. We cannot commercialize our product candidates, including seladelpar, until the appropriate regulatory authorities, such as the FDA, have reviewed and approved the product candidate. The regulatory agencies may not complete their review processes in a timely manner, or we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates. Additional delays may result if a product candidate is brought before an FDA advisory committee, which could recommend restrictions on approval or recommend non-approval of the product candidate. In addition, we may experience delays or rejections based upon additional government regulation from future legislation or administrative action, or changes in regulatory agency policy during the period of product development, clinical studies and the review process. As a result, we cannot predict when, if at all, we will receive any future revenue from commercialization of any of our product candidates, including seladelpar. The FDA has substantial discretion in the drug approval process, including the ability to delay, limit or deny approval of a product candidate for many reasons, including the following:. •  we may be unable to demonstrate to the satisfaction of regulatory authorities that a product candidate is safe and effective for any indication;. •  regulatory authorities may not find the data from nonclinical studies and clinical studies sufficient or may differ in the interpretation of the data;. •  regulatory authorities may require additional nonclinical or clinical studies;. •  the FDA or foreign regulatory authority might not approve our third party manufacturers' processes or facilities for clinical or commercial product;. •  the FDA or foreign regulatory authority may change its approval policies or adopt new regulations;. •  the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities may disagree with the design or implementation of our clinical studies;. •  the FDA or foreign regulatory authority may not accept clinical data from studies that are conducted in countries where the standard of care is potentially different from that in the U.S.;. •  the results of clinical studies may not meet the level of statistical significance required by the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities for approval;. •  we may be unable to demonstrate that a product candidate's clinical and other benefits outweigh its safety risks; and. •  the data collection from clinical studies of our product candidates may not be sufficient to support the submission of a NDA or other submission or to obtain regulatory approval in the U.S. or elsewhere.. In addition, events raising questions about the safety of certain marketed pharmaceuticals may result in increased caution by the FDA and other regulatory authorities in reviewing new pharmaceuticals based on safety, efficacy or other regulatory considerations and may result in significant delays in obtaining regulatory approvals.. 35. Even if we obtain regulatory approval for seladelpar and our other product candidates, we will still face extensive regulatory requirements and our products may face future development and regulatory difficulties.. Even if we obtain regulatory approval in the U.S., the FDA may still impose significant restrictions on the indicated uses or marketing of our product candidates, including seladelpar, or impose ongoing requirements for potentially costly post-approval studies or post-market surveillance. For example, the labeling ultimately approved for our product candidates, including seladelpar, may include restrictions on use due to the specific patient population and manner of use in which the drug was evaluated and the safety and efficacy data obtained in those evaluations.. Seladelpar and our other product candidates will also be subject to additional ongoing FDA requirements governing the labeling, packaging, storage, distribution, safety surveillance, advertising, promotion, record-keeping and reporting of safety and other post-market information. The holder of an approved NDA is obligated to monitor and report AEs and any failure of a product to meet the specifications in the NDA. The holder of an approved NDA must also submit new or supplemental applications and obtain FDA approval for certain changes to the approved product, product labeling or manufacturing process. Advertising and promotional materials must comply with FDA rules and are subject to FDA review, in addition to other potentially applicable federal and state laws. Furthermore, promotional materials must be approved by the FDA prior to use for any drug receiving accelerated approval.. In addition, manufacturers of drug products and their facilities are subject to payment of user fees and continual review and periodic inspections by the FDA and other regulatory authorities for compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP), and adherence to commitments made in the NDA. If we, or a regulatory agency, discover previously unknown problems with a product, such as quality issues or AEs of unanticipated severity or frequency, or problems with the facility where the product is manufactured, a regulatory agency may impose restrictions relative to that product or the manufacturing facility, including requesting recall or withdrawal of the product from the market or suspension of manufacturing.. If we, or our third party contractors, fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements following approval of our product candidate, a regulatory agency may:. •  issue an untitled or warning letter asserting violation of the law;. •  seek an injunction or impose civil or criminal penalties up to and including imprisonment or monetary fines;. •  suspend or withdraw regulatory approval;. •  suspend any ongoing clinical trials;. •  refuse to approve a pending NDA or supplements to an NDA; or. •  request recall and/or seize product.. Any government investigation of alleged violations of law could require us to expend significant time and resources in response and could generate negative publicity. The occurrence of any event or penalty described above may inhibit our ability to commercialize seladelpar and our other product candidates and inhibit our ability to generate revenues.. The FDA and other regulatory agencies strictly regulate the promotional claims that may be made about prescription products. If we are found to have improperly promoted our products for off-label uses, we may become subject to significant fines and other liability.. The FDA and other regulatory agencies strictly regulate the promotional claims that may be made about prescription products. In particular, a product may not be promoted for uses that are not approved by the FDA or such other regulatory agencies as reflected in the product's approved labeling. If we receive marketing approval for our product candidates, physicians may nevertheless prescribe such products to their patients in a manner that is inconsistent with the approved label. If we are found to have promoted such off-label uses, we may become subject to significant government fines and other related liability. For example, the federal government has levied large civil and criminal fines against companies for alleged improper promotion and has enjoined several companies from engaging in off-label promotion. The FDA also has requested that companies enter into consent decrees or permanent injunctions under which specified promotional conduct is changed or curtailed.. 36. Even if we obtain FDA approval for seladelpar or any of our other product candidates in the United States, we may never obtain approval for or commercialize seladelpar or any of our other product candidates outside of the United States, which would limit our ability to realize their full market potential.. In order to market any products outside of the U.S., we must establish and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements on a country-by-country basis regarding safety and efficacy. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or jurisdictions. In addition, clinical trials conducted in one country may not be accepted by regulatory authorities in other countries, and regulatory approval in one country does not guarantee regulatory approval in any other country. Approval processes vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and validation and additional administrative review periods. Seeking foreign regulatory approval could result in difficulties and costs for us and require additional preclinical studies or clinical trials that could be costly and time consuming. Regulatory requirements can vary widely from country to country and could delay or prevent the introduction of our products in those countries. We do not have any product candidates approved for sale in any jurisdiction, including international markets, and we do not have experience in obtaining regulatory approval in international markets. If we fail to comply with regulatory requirements in international markets or to obtain and maintain required approvals, or if regulatory approvals in international markets are delayed, our target market will be reduced and our ability to realize the full market potential of our products will be unrealized.. Our relationships with health care professionals, customers and payors will be subject to applicable anti-kickback, fraud and abuse and other health care laws and regulations, which could expose us to criminal sanctions, civil penalties, contractual damages, reputational harm and diminished profits and future earnings.. Health care professionals and third party payors play a primary role in the recommendation and prescription of any products for which we obtain marketing approval. Our future arrangements with healthcare professionals, third-party payors and customers may expose us to broadly applicable fraud and abuse and other health care laws and regulations that may constrain the business or financial arrangements and relationships through which we market, sell and distribute our products for which we obtain marketing approval. Restrictions under applicable federal and state health care laws and regulations, include the following:. •  the federal health Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce or reward either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service, for which payment may be made under federal health care programs such as Medicare and Medicaid;. •  the federal False Claims Act imposes criminal and civil penalties, including civil whistleblower or qui tam actions, against individuals or entities for knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, to the federal government, claims for payment that are false or fraudulent or making a false statement to avoid, decrease or conceal an obligation to pay money to the federal government;. •  HIPAA, as amended by HITECH, imposes criminal and civil liability for executing a scheme to defraud any health care benefit program and also imposes obligations, including mandatory contractual terms, with respect to safeguarding the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information;. •  the federal false statements statute prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for health care benefits, items or services;. •  the federal transparency requirements under the PPACA, commonly referred to as the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, require manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies to report to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) payments and other transfers of value provided to physicians and teaching hospitals and ownership and investment interests held by physicians and other healthcare providers and their immediate family members in certain manufacturers and group purchasing organizations; and. 37. •  analogous state laws and regulations, such as state anti-kickback and false claims laws, may apply to sales or marketing arrangements and claims involving health care items or services reimbursed by non-governmental third-party payors, including private insurers, and some state laws require pharmaceutical companies to comply with the pharmaceutical industry's voluntary compliance guidelines and the relevant compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government in addition to requiring manufacturers to report information related to payments to physicians and other health care providers or marketing expenditures.. Efforts to ensure that our business arrangements with third parties will comply with applicable health care laws and regulations will involve substantial costs. It is possible that governmental authorities will conclude that our business practices may not comply with current or future statutes, regulations or case law involving applicable fraud and abuse or other health care laws and regulations. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of these laws or any other governmental regulations that may apply to us, we may be subject to significant civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from government funded health care programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. If any of the physicians or other providers or entities with whom we expect to do business are found to be not in compliance with applicable laws, they may be subject to criminal, civil or administrative sanctions, including exclusions from government funded health care programs.. Recently enacted and future legislation may increase the difficulty and cost for us to obtain marketing approval of and commercialize our product candidates and affect the prices we may obtain.. In the U.S. and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory changes and proposed changes regarding the health care system that could prevent or delay marketing approval of our product candidates, restrict or regulate post-approval activities and affect our ability to profitably sell any products for which we obtain marketing approval.. For example, in March 2010, the PPACA was enacted to broaden access to health insurance, reduce or constrain the growth of health care spending, enhance remedies against fraud and abuse, add new transparency requirements for health care and health insurance industries, impose new taxes and fees on the health industry and impose additional health policy reforms. The PPACA revises the definition of \"average manufacturer price\" for reporting purposes, which could increase the amount of Medicaid drug rebates to states. Further, the new law imposes a significant annual fee on companies that manufacture or import branded prescription drug products. New provisions affecting compliance have also been enacted, which may affect our business practices with health care practitioners. Since its enactment there have been judicial and Congressional challenges to certain aspects of the PPACA, and we expect there will be additional challenges and amendments to it in the future. Although the full effect of the PPACA remains uncertain, it appears likely to continue the pressure on pharmaceutical pricing, especially under the Medicare program, and may also increase our regulatory burdens and operating costs. Further, other legislative changes have been adopted since the PPACA was enacted, such as the Budget Control Act of 2011 and the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, which have resulted in reduced reimbursement under the Medicare program.. Legislative and regulatory proposals have been made to expand post-approval requirements and restrict sales and promotional activities for pharmaceutical products. In addition, there have been several recent Congressional inquiries and proposed bills designed to, among other things, bring more transparency to drug pricing, review the relationship between pricing and manufacturer patient programs, and reform government program reimbursement methodologies for drug products. We are not sure whether additional legislative changes will be enacted, or whether the FDA regulations, guidance or interpretations will be changed, or what the impact of such changes on the marketing approvals of our product candidates, if any, may be.. 38. Risks Related to Our Reliance on Third Parties. We rely on third-party manufacturers to produce our preclinical and clinical drug supplies, and we intend to rely on third parties to produce commercial supplies of any approved product candidates.. We do not own or operate, and we do not expect to own or operate, facilities for product manufacturing, storage and distribution, or testing. We currently rely on third-party manufacturers for supply of our preclinical and clinical drug supplies. We expect that in the future we will continue to rely on such manufacturers for drug supplies that will be used in clinical trials of our product candidates, and for commercialization of any of our product candidates that receive regulatory approval.. The facilities used by our contract manufacturers to manufacture the product candidates must be approved by the FDA pursuant to inspections that will be conducted only after we submit an NDA to the FDA, if at all. We are completely dependent on our contract manufacturing partners for compliance with the FDA's requirements for manufacture of finished pharmaceutical products. If our contract manufacturers cannot successfully manufacture material that conforms to our specifications and the FDA's strict regulatory requirements of safety, purity and potency, we will not be able to secure and/or maintain FDA approval for our product candidates. In addition, we have no direct control over the ability of the contract manufacturers to maintain adequate quality control, quality assurance and qualified personnel. If our contract manufacturers cannot meet FDA standards, we may need to find alternative manufacturing facilities, which would significantly impact our ability to develop, obtain regulatory approval for or market our product candidates. No assurance can be given that our manufacturers can continue to make clinical and commercial supplies of product candidates, at an appropriate scale and cost to make it commercially feasible.. In addition, we do not have the capability to package and distribute finished products to pharmacies and other customers. Prior to commercial launch, we will enter into agreements with one or more pharmaceutical product packager/distributor to ensure proper supply chain management once we are authorized to make commercial sales of our product candidates. If we receive marketing approval from the FDA, we intend to sell pharmaceutical product packaged and distributed by such suppliers. Although we have entered into agreements with our current contract manufacturers and packager/distributor for clinical trial material, we may be unable to maintain an agreement on commercially reasonable terms, which could have a material adverse impact upon our business.. We rely on limited sources of supply for the drug substance for seladelpar, and any disruption in the chain of supply may cause delay in developing and commercializing of seladelpar.. It is our expectation that only one supplier of drug substance and one supplier of drug product will be qualified by the FDA. If supply from an approved vendor is interrupted, there could be a significant disruption in commercial supply of our products. An alternative vendor would need to be qualified through a supplemental registration, which would be expensive and could result in further delay. The FDA or other regulatory agencies outside of the U.S. may also require additional studies if a new drug substance or drug product supplier is relied upon for commercial production. These factors could cause the delay of clinical trials, regulatory submissions, required approvals or commercialization of our products, and cause us to incur additional costs. Furthermore, if our suppliers fail to deliver the required commercial quantities of active pharmaceutical ingredient on a timely basis and at commercially reasonable prices, and we are unable to secure one or more replacement suppliers capable of production at a substantially equivalent cost, the supply chain for our products may be delayed, which could inhibit our ability to generate revenues.. Manufacturing issues may arise that could increase product and regulatory approval costs or delay commercialization of our products.. We expect to increase the manufacturing batch sizes of our products in preparation of late stage clinical development and commercial supplies. As the processes are scaled up they may reveal manufacturing challenges or previously unknown impurities that could require resolution in order to proceed with our planned clinical trials and obtain regulatory approval for the commercial marketing of our products. In the future, we may identify manufacturing issues or impurities that could result in delays in the clinical program and regulatory approval for our products, increases in our operating expenses, or failure to obtain or maintain approval for our products.. 39. Our reliance on third-party manufacturers entails risks, including the following:. •  the inability to meet our product specifications and quality requirements consistently;. •  a delay or inability to procure or expand sufficient manufacturing capacity;. •  manufacturing and product quality issues related to scale-up of manufacturing;. •  costs and validation of new equipment and facilities required for scale-up;. •  a failure to comply with cGMP and similar foreign standards;. •  the inability to negotiate manufacturing agreements with third parties under commercially reasonable terms;. •  termination or nonrenewal of manufacturing agreements with third parties in a manner or at a time that is costly or damaging to us;. •  the reliance on a limited number of sources, and in some cases, single sources for key materials, such that if we are unable to secure a sufficient supply of these key materials, we will be unable to manufacture and sell our product candidates in a timely fashion, in sufficient quantities or under acceptable terms;. •  the lack of qualified backup suppliers for those materials that are currently purchased from a sole or single source supplier;. •  operations of our third-party manufacturers or suppliers could be disrupted by conditions unrelated to our business or operations, including the bankruptcy of the manufacturer or supplier;. •  carrier disruptions or increased costs that are beyond our control; and. •  the failure to deliver our products under specified storage conditions and in a timely manner.. Any of these events could lead to clinical study delays, failure to obtain regulatory approval or impact our ability to successfully commercialize our products. Some of these events could be the basis for FDA or other regulatory authorities' action, including injunction, recall, seizure, or total or partial suspension of production.. We rely on third parties to conduct, supervise and monitor our clinical studies, and if those third parties perform in an unsatisfactory manner, it may harm our business.. We rely on contract service providers (CSPs) including clinical research organizations, clinical trial sites, central laboratories and other service providers to ensure the proper and timely conduct of our clinical trials. While we have agreements governing their activities, we have limited influence over their actual performance. We have relied and plan to continue to rely upon CSPs to monitor and manage data for our ongoing clinical programs for our product candidates, as well as the execution of nonclinical studies. We control only certain aspects of our CSPs' activities. Nevertheless, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our studies is conducted in accordance with the applicable protocol, legal, regulatory and scientific standards and our reliance on the CSPs does not relieve us of our regulatory responsibilities.. We and our CSPs are required to comply with the FDA's guidance, which follows the International Conference on Harmonization Good Clinical Practice (ICH GCP), which are regulations and guidelines enforced by the FDA for all of our product candidates in clinical development. The FDA enforces the ICH GCP through periodic inspections of trial sponsors, principal investigators and clinical trial sites. If we or our CSPs fail to comply with the ICH GCP, the clinical data generated in our clinical trials may be deemed unreliable and the FDA may require us to perform additional clinical trials before approving our marketing applications. Our CSPs are not our employees, and we cannot control whether or not they devote sufficient time and resources to our ongoing clinical and nonclinical programs. These CSPs may also have relationships with other entities, including our competitors, for whom they may also be conducting clinical studies, or other drug development activities that could harm our competitive position. We face the risk of potential unauthorized disclosure or misappropriation of our intellectual property by CSPs, which may reduce our trade secret protection and allow our potential competitors to access and exploit our proprietary technology. If our CSPs do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or obligations, fail to meet expected deadlines, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements or for any other reasons, our clinical trials may be. 40. extended, delayed or terminated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for, or successfully commercialize our product candidates. As a result, our financial results and the commercial prospects for our product candidates that we develop would be harmed, our costs could increase, and our ability to generate revenues could be delayed.. Risks Related to Commercialization of Our Product Candidates. The commercial success of seladelpar and our other product candidates will depend upon the acceptance of these products by the medical community, including physicians, patients and health care payors.. If any of our product candidates, including seladelpar, receive marketing approval, they may nonetheless not gain sufficient market acceptance by physicians, patients, health care payors and others in the medical community. If these products do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance, we may not generate significant product revenues and we may not become profitable. The degree of market acceptance of any of our product candidates, including seladelpar, will depend on a number of factors, including the following:. •  demonstration of clinical safety and efficacy in our clinical trials;. •  the risk/benefit profile of our product candidates;. •  the relative convenience, ease of administration and acceptance by physicians, patients and health care payors;. •  the prevalence and severity of any side effects;. •  the safety of product candidates seen in a broader patient group, including its use outside the approved indications;. •  limitations or warnings contained in the FDA and other regulatory authorities approved label for the relevant product candidate;. •  acceptance of the product by physicians, other health care providers and patients as a safe and effective treatment;. •  the potential and perceived advantages of product candidates over alternative treatments;. •  the timing of market introduction of competitive products;. •  pricing and cost-effectiveness;. •  the effectiveness of our or any future collaborators' sales and marketing strategies;. •  our ability to obtain formulary approval;. •  our ability to obtain and maintain sufficient third-party coverage or reimbursement, which may vary from country to country; and. •  the effectiveness of our or any future collaborators' sales, marketing and distribution efforts.. If any of our product candidates, including seladelpar, is approved but does not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by physicians, patients and health care payors, we may not generate sufficient revenue and we may not become or remain profitable.. If we are unable to establish sales and marketing capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to market and sell our product candidates, we may be unable to generate any revenue.. We currently do not have an organization for the sales, marketing and distribution of pharmaceutical products and the cost of establishing and maintaining such an organization may exceed the cost-effectiveness of doing so. In order to market any products that may be approved, including seladelpar, we must build our sales, marketing, managerial and other non-technical capabilities or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services. We may enter into strategic partnerships with third parties to commercialize our product candidates, including seladelpar.. 41. If we are unable to build our own sales force or negotiate a strategic partnership for the commercialization of our product candidates, we may be forced to delay the potential commercialization of seladelpar, or reduce the scope of our sales or marketing activities. If we elect to increase our expenditures to fund commercialization activities ourselves, we will need to obtain additional capital, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. If we do not have sufficient funds, we will not be able to bring seladelpar to market or generate product revenue.. If we are unable to establish adequate sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, whether independently or with third parties, we may not be able to generate sufficient product revenue and may not become profitable. We will be competing with companies that currently have extensive and well-funded marketing and sales operations. Without an internal team or the support of a third party to perform marketing and sales functions, we may be unable to compete successfully against these more established companies.. In addition, there are risks involved with both establishing our own sales and marketing capabilities and entering into arrangements with third parties to perform these services. For example, recruiting and training a sales force is expensive and time-consuming and could delay any product launch. If the commercial launch of a product candidate for which we recruit a sales force and establish marketing capabilities is delayed or does not occur for any reason, we would have prematurely or unnecessarily incurred these commercialization expenses. This may be costly, and our investment would be lost if we cannot retain or reposition our sales and marketing personnel.. If we obtain approval to commercialize any products outside of the U.S., a variety of risks associated with international operations could materially adversely affect our business.. If our product candidates are approved for commercialization, we intend to enter into agreements with third parties to market those product candidates outside the U.S., including for seladelpar. We expect that we will be subject to additional risks related to international operations, including the following:. •  different regulatory requirements for drug approvals in foreign countries;. •  reduced protection for intellectual property rights;. •  unexpected changes in tariffs, trade barriers and regulatory requirements;. •  economic weakness, including inflation, or political instability in particular foreign economies and markets;. •  compliance with tax, employment, immigration and labor laws for employees living or traveling abroad;. •  foreign taxes, including withholding of payroll taxes;. •  foreign currency fluctuations, which could result in increased operating expenses and reduced revenues, and other obligations incident to doing business in another country;. •  workforce uncertainty in countries where labor unrest is more common than in the U.S.;. •  production shortages resulting from any events affecting raw material supply or manufacturing capabilities abroad; and. •  business interruptions resulting from geopolitical actions, including war and terrorism, pandemics, or natural disasters including earthquakes, typhoons, volcanic eruptions, floods and fires.. We have no prior experience in these areas. In addition, there are complex regulatory, tax, labor and other legal requirements imposed by both the European Union and many of the individual countries in Europe with which we will need to comply. Many U.S.-based biopharmaceutical companies have found the process of marketing their own products in Europe to be very challenging.. 42. If our competitors develop and market products that are more effective, safer or less expensive than our own, our commercial opportunities will be negatively impacted.. The life sciences industry is highly competitive, and we face significant competition from other pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and possibly from academic institutions, government agencies and private and public research institutions that are researching, developing and marketing products designed to address treatments the we are seeking to treat. Our competitors generally have significantly greater financial, manufacturing, marketing and drug development resources. Large pharmaceutical companies, in particular, have extensive experience in the clinical testing of, obtaining regulatory approvals for, and marketing of, drugs. New developments, including the development of other pharmaceutical technologies and methods of treating disease, occur in the pharmaceutical and life sciences industries at a rapid pace.. These developments may render our product candidates obsolete or noncompetitive. Compared to us, potential competitors may have substantially greater:. •  research and development resources, including personnel and technology;. •  regulatory experience;. •  experience in pharmaceutical development and commercialization;. •  ability to negotiate competitive pricing and reimbursement with third-party payors;. •  experience and expertise in the exploitation of intellectual property rights; and. •  capital resources.. As a result of these factors, our competitors may obtain regulatory approval of their products more rapidly than we do or may obtain patent protection or other intellectual property rights that limit our ability to develop or commercialize our product candidates. The competitors may also develop products that are more effective, better tolerated, more useful and less costly than our products and they may also be more successful in manufacturing and marketing their products.. Formulary approval and reimbursement may not be available for seladelpar and our other product candidates, which could make it difficult for us to sell our products profitably.. Obtaining formulary approval can be an expensive and time consuming process. We cannot be certain if and when we will obtain formulary approval to allow us to promote our product candidates, including seladelpar, into our target markets. Failure to obtain timely formulary approval will limit our commercial success.. Furthermore, market acceptance and sales of arhalofenate, seladelpar or any other product candidates that we develop, will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for these products and related treatments will be available from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations. Government authorities and third-party payors, such as private health insurers and health maintenance organizations, decide which medications they will pay for and establish reimbursement levels. A prevailing trend in the U.S. health care industry and elsewhere is cost containment. Government authorities and these third-party payors have attempted to control costs by limiting coverage and the amount of reimbursement for particular medications. Increasingly, third-party payors are requiring that companies provide them with predetermined discounts from list prices and are challenging the prices charged for medical products. We cannot be sure that reimbursement will be available for any product that we commercialize and, if reimbursement is available, what the level of reimbursement will be. Reimbursement may impact the demand for, or the price of, any product for which we obtain marketing approval. We cannot be sure that reimbursement will be available for seladelpar, or any other product candidates. Also, reimbursement amounts may reduce the demand for, or the price of, our products. If reimbursement is not available, or is available only to limited levels, we may not be able to successfully commercialize seladelpar, or any other product candidates that we develop.. 43. The availability of generic treatments may also substantially reduce the likelihood of reimbursement for any future products, including seladelpar. The application of user fees to generic drug products will likely expedite the approval of additional generic drug treatments. We expect to experience pricing pressures in connection with the sale of seladelpar and any other product candidate that we develop, due to the trend toward managed health care, the increasing influence of health maintenance organizations and additional legislative changes.. In addition, there may be significant delays in obtaining reimbursement for approved products, and coverage may be more limited than the purposes for which the product is approved by the FDA or health authorities in other countries. Moreover, eligibility for reimbursement does not imply that any product will be paid for in all cases or at a rate that covers our costs, including research, development, manufacture, sale and distribution. Interim payments for new products, if applicable, may also not be sufficient to cover our costs and may not be made permanent. Payment rates may vary according to the use of the product and the clinical setting in which it is used, may be based on payments allowed for lower cost products that are already reimbursed, and may be incorporated into existing payments for other services. Net prices for products may be reduced by mandatory discounts or rebates required by government health care programs or private payors and by any future relaxation of laws that presently restrict imports of products from countries where they may be sold at lower prices than in the U.S. Third-party payors often rely upon Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement policies.. If we are unable to promptly obtain coverage and profitable payment rates from both government funded and private payors for any of our product candidates, including seladelpar, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, our ability to raise capital needed to commercialize products and our overall financial condition.. Even if we receive regulatory approval for seladelpar, we will be subject to ongoing FDA and other regulatory obligations and continued regulatory review, which may result in significant additional expense and limit our ability to commercialize seladelpar.. Any regulatory approvals that we or potential collaboration partners receive for seladelpar or future product candidates, may also be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or contain requirements for potentially costly post-marketing studies. In addition, even if approved, the labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and recordkeeping for any product will be subject to extensive and ongoing regulatory requirements. The subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, including AEs of unanticipated severity or frequency, may result in restrictions on the marketing of the product, and could include withdrawal of the product from the market. Depending on any safety issues associated with our product candidates that are approved, the FDA may require a REMS, thereby imposing certain restrictions on the sale and marketability of such products or additional post-marketing requirements.. Regulatory policies may change and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our product candidates. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the U.S. or abroad. If we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we might not be permitted to market seladelpar or future products, if any, and we may not achieve or sustain profitability.. If product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of our product candidates.. We face an inherent risk of product liability exposure related to the testing of our product candidates in human clinical studies, and will face an even greater risk if we sell our product candidates commercially. An individual may bring a liability claim against us if one of our product candidates causes, or merely appears to have caused, an injury. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we will incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in the following:. •  decreased demand for our product candidates;. •  impairment to our business reputation;. •  withdrawal of clinical study participants;. 44. •  distraction of management's attention from our primary business;. •  substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants;. •  the inability to commercialize our product candidates; and. •  loss of revenues.. We do carry product liability insurance for our clinical studies. Further, we intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products if marketing approval is obtained for any of our product candidates. However, we may be unable to obtain this product liability insurance on commercially reasonable terms and with insurance coverage that will be adequate to satisfy any liability that may arise. On occasion, large judgments have been awarded in class action or individual lawsuits relating to marketed pharmaceuticals. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could cause our stock price to decline and, if judgments exceed our insurance coverage, could decrease our cash and adversely affect our business.. We may expend our limited resources to pursue a particular product candidate or indication and fail to capitalize on product candidates or indications that may be more profitable or for which there is a greater likelihood of success.. The success of our business depends primarily upon our ability to identify, develop and commercialize product candidates. Because we have limited financial and managerial resources, we focus on product candidates for specific indications. As a result, we may forego or delay pursuit of opportunities with other product candidates or other indications that later prove to have greater commercial potential. We may focus our efforts and resources on product candidates that ultimately prove to be unsuccessful.. If we do not accurately evaluate the commercial potential or target market for a particular product candidate, we may relinquish valuable rights to that product candidate through collaboration, licensing or other royalty arrangements in cases in which it would have been advantageous for us to retain sole development and commercialization rights.. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property. If we are unable to obtain or protect intellectual property rights related to our products and product candidates, we may not be able to compete effectively in our market.. We rely upon a combination of patents, trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements to protect the intellectual property related to our products and product candidates. The strength of patents in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical field involves complex legal and scientific questions and can be uncertain. The patent applications that we own, co-own or in-license may fail to result in issued patents with claims that cover the products in the U.S. or in other countries. If this were to occur, early generic competition could be expected against our product candidates in development. There is no assurance that all of the potentially relevant prior art relating to our patents and patent applications has been found, which can invalidate a patent or prevent a patent from issuing based on a pending patent application. Even if patents do successfully issue, third parties may challenge their validity, enforceability, scope or ownership, which may result in such patents, or our rights to such patents, being narrowed or invalidated. Furthermore, even if they are unchallenged, our patents and patent applications may not adequately protect our intellectual property or prevent others from designing around our claims. If the patent applications we hold or license with respect to our product candidates fail to issue or if their breadth or strength of protection is threatened, it could dissuade companies from collaborating with us and threaten our ability to commercialize our products. We cannot offer any assurances about which, if any, patents will issue or whether any issued patents will be found invalid or unenforceable, will be challenged by third parties or will adequately protect our products and product candidates. Further, if we encounter delays in development or regulatory approvals, the period of time during which we could market our products under patent protection could be reduced. Since patent applications in the U.S. and most other countries are confidential for a period of time after filing, and some remain so until issued, we cannot be certain that we or our licensors were the first to file any patent application related to our product candidates. Furthermore, if third parties have filed such patent applications, an interference proceeding in the U.S. can be provoked by a third party or instituted by us to determine who was the first to invent any of the subject matter covered by the patent claims of our applications. An unfavorable outcome could require us to cease using the related technology or to attempt to license it from the prevailing party, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all.. 45. In addition to the protection afforded by patents, we rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements to protect proprietary know-how that is not patentable, processes for which patents are difficult to enforce and other elements of our drug discovery and development processes that involve proprietary know-how, information or technology that is not covered by patents. Although we expect all of our employees to assign their inventions to us, and all of our employees, consultants, advisors and any third parties who have access to our proprietary know-how, information or technology to enter into confidentiality agreements, we cannot provide any assurances that all such agreements have been duly executed, that such agreements provide adequate protection and will not be breached, that our trade secrets and other confidential proprietary information will not otherwise be disclosed or that competitors will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques. If we are unable to prevent material disclosure of the non-patented intellectual property related to our technologies to third parties, and there is no guarantee that we will have any such enforceable trade secret protection, we may not be able to establish or maintain a competitive advantage in our market, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Further, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect patents and other proprietary rights to the same extent or in the same manner as the laws of the U.S. As a result, we may encounter significant problems in protecting and defending our intellectual property abroad. We may also fail to pursue or obtain patents and other intellectual property protection relating to our products and product candidates in all foreign countries.. Third-party claims of intellectual property infringement may prevent or delay our development and commercialization efforts or otherwise affect our business.. Our commercial success depends in part on our avoiding infringement and other violations of the patents and proprietary rights of third parties. There is a substantial amount of litigation, both within and outside the U.S., involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, including patent infringement lawsuits, interferences, oppositions and inter party re-examination proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (U.S. PTO) and its foreign counterparts. Numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications, which are owned by third parties, exist in the fields in which we and our collaborators are developing product candidates. As the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries expand and more patents are issued, and as we gain greater visibility and market exposure as a public company, the risk increases that our product candidates or other business activities may be subject to claims of infringement of the patent and other proprietary rights of third parties.. Third parties may assert that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. There may be third-party patents or patent applications with claims to materials, formulations, methods of manufacture or methods for treatment related to the use or manufacture of our product candidates. Because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending patent applications that may later result in issued patents that our product candidates may infringe. In addition, third parties may obtain patents in the future and claim that use of our technologies infringes upon these patents. If any third-party patents were held by a court of competent jurisdiction to cover the manufacturing process of any of our product candidates, any molecules formed during the manufacturing process or any final product itself, the holders of any such patents may be able to block our ability to commercialize such product candidate unless we obtained a license under the applicable patents, or until such patents expire. Similarly, if any third-party patent were held by a court of competent jurisdiction to cover aspects of our formulations, processes for manufacture or methods of use, including combination therapy, the holders of any such patent may be able to block our ability to develop and commercialize the applicable product candidate unless we obtained a license or until such patent expires. In either case, such a license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. In addition, we may be subject to claims that we are infringing other intellectual property rights, such as trademarks or copyrights, or misappropriating the trade secrets of others, and to the extent that our employees, consultants or contractors use intellectual property or proprietary information owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions.. Parties making claims against us may obtain injunctive or other equitable relief, which could effectively block our ability to further develop and commercialize one or more of our product candidates. Defense of these claims, regardless of their merit, would involve substantial litigation expense and would be a substantial diversion of employee resources from our business. In the event of a successful infringement or other intellectual property claim against us, we may have to pay substantial damages, including treble damages and attorneys' fees for willful. 46. infringement, obtain one or more licenses from third parties, pay royalties or redesign our affected products, which may be impossible or require substantial time and monetary expenditure. We cannot predict whether any such license would be available at all or whether it would be available on commercially reasonable terms. Furthermore, even in the absence of litigation, we may need to obtain licenses from third parties to advance our research or allow commercialization of our product candidates, and we have done so from time to time. We may fail to obtain any of these licenses at a reasonable cost or on reasonable terms, if at all. In that event, we would be unable to further develop and commercialize one or more of our product candidates, which could harm our business significantly. We cannot provide any assurances that third-party patents do not exist that might be enforced against our products or product candidates, resulting in either an injunction prohibiting our sales, or, with respect to our sales, an obligation on our part to pay royalties and/or other forms of compensation to third parties.. We license certain key intellectual property from third parties, and the loss of our license rights could have a materially adverse effect on our business.. We are a party to a number of technology licenses that are important to our business and expect to enter into additional licenses in the future. For example:. 1) We rely on an exclusive license to certain patents and know-how from Janssen Pharmaceutical NV (Janssen NV), which include seladelpar and certain other PPARd compounds (the \"PPARd Products\"). Under the exclusive license with Janssen NV we have full control and responsibility over the research, development and registration of any PPARd Products and are required to use diligent efforts to conduct all such activities. If we fail to comply with our obligations under our agreement with Janssen NV, including our obligations to expend more than a de minimus amount of effort and resources on the research and/or development of at least one PPARd product, to make any payment called for under the agreement, not to disclose any non-exempt confidential information related to the agreement, or to use diligent efforts to promote, market and sell any PPARd Product under the agreement, such action would constitute a default under the agreement and Janssen NV may have the right to terminate the license, in which event we would not be able to develop or market products covered by the license, including in the case of the Janssen NV license, seladelpar, which would have a materially adverse effect on our business.. 2) We rely on an exclusive license to certain patents, proprietary technology and know-how from DiaTex, which include arhalofenate. During the term of the exclusive license with DiaTex we may perform research and development of compounds and products for the treatment of human disease based on the patents, proprietary technology and know-how from DiaTex. If we fail to comply with our obligations under our agreement with DiaTex, including our obligations to pay royalty payments during the development and commercialization of arhalofenate, or if we are subject to a bankruptcy, DiaTex may have the right to terminate the license, in which event we would not be able to develop or market products covered by the license, including in the case of the DiaTex license, arhalofenate, which could have an adverse effect on our business.. We may be involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents, the patents of our licensors or our other intellectual property rights, which could be expensive, time consuming and unsuccessful.. Competitors may infringe or otherwise violate our patents, the patents of our licensors or our other intellectual property rights. To counter infringement or unauthorized use, we may be required to file legal claims, which can be expensive and time-consuming. In addition, in an infringement proceeding, a court may decide that a patent of ours or our licensors is not valid or is unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover the technology in question. An adverse result in any litigation or defense proceedings could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and could put our patent applications at risk of not issuing. The initiation of a claim against a third party may also cause the third party to bring counter-claims against us.. We may not be able to prevent, alone or with our licensors, misappropriation of our intellectual property rights, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect those rights as fully as in the U.S. Our business could be harmed if in a litigation if the prevailing party does not offer us a license on commercially reasonable terms. Any litigation or other proceedings to enforce our intellectual property rights may fail, and even if successful, may result in substantial costs and distract our management and other employees.. 47. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. There could also be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock.. Obtaining and maintaining our patent protection depends on compliance with various procedural, document submission, fee payment and other requirements imposed by governmental patent agencies, and our patent protection could be reduced or eliminated for non-compliance with these requirements.. Periodic maintenance fees on any issued patent are due to be paid to the U.S. PTO and foreign patent agencies in several stages over the lifetime of the patent. The U.S. PTO and various foreign governmental patent agencies require compliance with a number of procedural, documentary, fee payment and other similar provisions during the patent application process. While an inadvertent lapse can in many cases be cured by payment of a late fee or by other means in accordance with the applicable rules, there are situations in which noncompliance can result in abandonment or lapse of the patent or patent application, resulting in partial or complete loss of patent rights in the relevant jurisdiction. Non-compliance events that could result in abandonment or lapse of a patent or patent application include, but are not limited to, failure to respond to official actions within prescribed time limits, non-payment of fees and failure to properly legalize and submit formal documents. If we or our licensors that control the prosecution and maintenance of our licensed patents fail to maintain the patents and patent applications covering our product candidates, we may lose our rights and our competitors might be able to enter the market, which would have a material adverse effect on our business.. Risks Related to Our Business Operations and Industry. Our future success depends on our ability to retain key executives and to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel.. We are highly dependent on principal members of our executive team listed under \"Business  -  Executive Officers  of Registrant\" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. While we have entered into employment agreements or offer letters with each of our executive officers, any of them could leave our employment at any time, as all of our employees are \"at will\" employees. We do not maintain \"key person\" insurance for any of our executives or other employees. Recruiting and retaining other qualified employees for our business, including scientific and technical personnel, will also be critical to our success. There is currently a shortage of skilled executives in our industry, which is likely to continue. We also experience competition from universities and research institutions for the hiring of scientific and clinical personnel. As a result, competition for skilled personnel is intense and the turnover rate can be high. We may not be able to attract and retain personnel on acceptable terms given the competition among numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for similar personnel. In addition, failure of any of our clinical studies may make it more challenging to recruit and retain qualified personnel. If we are unable to successfully recruit key employees or replace the loss of services of any executive or key employee, it may adversely affect the progress of our research, development and commercialization objectives.. In addition, we rely on consultants and advisors, including scientific and clinical advisors, to assist us in formulating our research and development and commercialization strategy. Our consultants and advisors may be employed by employers other than us and may have commitments under consulting or advisory contracts with other entities that may limit their availability to us, which could also adversely affect the progress of our research, development and commercialization objectives.. We will need to expand our organization, and we may experience difficulties in managing this growth, which could disrupt our operations.. As of February 28, 2018, we had 26 full-time employees. As our company matures, we expect to expand our employee base to increase our managerial, clinical, scientific and engineering, operational, sales, and marketing teams. Future growth would impose significant additional responsibilities on our management, including the need to identify, recruit, maintain, motivate and integrate additional employees, consultants and contractors. Also, our management may need to divert a disproportionate amount of its attention away from our day-to-day activities and. 48. devote a substantial amount of time to managing these growth activities. We may not be able to effectively manage the expansion of our operations, which may result in weaknesses in our infrastructure, give rise to operational mistakes, loss of business opportunities, loss of employees and reduced productivity among remaining employees. Our expected growth could require significant capital expenditures and may divert financial resources from other projects, such as the development of product candidates. If our management is unable to effectively manage our growth, our expenses may increase more than expected, our ability to generate and/or grow revenues could be reduced, and we may not be able to implement our business strategy. Our future financial performance and our ability to commercialize our product candidates and compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to effectively manage any future growth.. Our internal computer systems, or those used by our contract research organizations or other contractors or consultants, may fail or suffer security breaches.. Despite the implementation of security measures, our internal computer systems and those of our contract research organizations and other contractors and consultants are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication and electrical failures. While we have not experienced any such system failure, accident or security breach to date, if such an event were to occur and cause interruptions in our operations, it could result in a material disruption of our product candidate development programs. For example, the loss of clinical study data from completed or ongoing clinical studies for a product candidate could result in delays in our regulatory approval efforts and significantly increase our costs to recover or reproduce the data. To the extent that any disruption or security breach was to result in a loss of or damage to our data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we could incur liability and the further development of any product candidates could be delayed.. Risks Relating to Owning Our Common Stock. An active trading market for our common stock may not continue and the market price for our common stock may decline in value.. Our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol \"CBAY\". Historically, trading volume for our common stock has been limited. The historical trading prices of our common stock on the Nasdaq Capital Market may not be indicative of the price levels at which our common stock will trade in the future, and we cannot predict the extent to which investor interest in us generally will continue to support an active public trading market for our common stock or how liquid will be that public market.. Our stock price is volatile, and our stockholders' investment in our stock could decline in value.. The historical trading price of our common stock has been volatile. Our stock price may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, including:. •  adverse results or delays in preclinical testing or clinical trials;. •  inability to obtain additional funding;. •  any delay in filing an IND or NDA for any of our future product candidates and any adverse development or perceived adverse development with respect to the FDA's review of an IND or NDA;. •  failure to maintain our existing collaborations or enter into new collaborations;. •  failure of our collaboration partners to elect to develop or commercialize product candidates under our collaboration agreements or the termination of any programs under our collaboration agreements;. •  failure by us or our licensors and collaboration partners to prosecute, maintain or enforce our intellectual property rights;. •  failure to successfully develop and commercialize our future product candidates;. •  changes in laws or regulations applicable to future products;. 49. •  inability to obtain adequate product supply for our future product candidates or the inability to do so at acceptable prices;. •  adverse regulatory decisions;. •  introduction of new products, services or technologies by our competitors;. •  failure to meet or exceed financial projections we may provide to the public;. •  failure to meet or exceed the estimates and projections of the investment community;. •  the perception of the pharmaceutical industry by the public, legislatures, regulators and the investment community;. •  announcements of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by us, our collaboration partners or our competitors;. •  announcements of significant or potential equity or debt sales by us;. •  announcements of clinical trial plans or results by us;. •  disputes or other developments relating to proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters and our ability to obtain patent protection for our technologies;. •  additions or departures of key scientific or management personnel;. •  significant lawsuits, including patent or stockholder litigation;. •  changes in the market valuations of similar companies;. •  sales of our common stock by us or our stockholders in the future; and. •  trading volume of our common stock.. In addition, companies trading in the stock market in general have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. Broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance.. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market by our existing stockholders could cause our stock price to fall.. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales, or sales, at any level, by insiders that are reported on Form 4, could depress the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. We are unable to predict the effect that sales may have on the prevailing market price of our common stock.. Future sales and issuances of our common stock or rights to purchase common stock, including pursuant to our equity incentive plans, could result in additional dilution of the percentage ownership of our stockholders and could cause our stock price to fall.. We expect that significant additional capital will be needed in the future to continue our planned product development efforts, in particular clinical trial, and operations. To the extent we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience substantial dilution. We may sell common stock, convertible securities or other equity securities in one or more transactions at prices and in a manner we determine from time to time. For example, in February 2017, we completed the issuance of 5,181,348 shares of our common stock at a public offering price of $1.93 per share in an underwritten public offering for the net proceeds to us of $9.2 million, in July 2017 we completed the issuance of 14,950,000 shares of our common stock at a public offering price of $6.50 per share in an underwritten public offering for net proceeds to us of approximately $91.3 million. In addition, in December 2017 we filed a $200 million shelf registration statement on Form S-3 with the SEC, and in February 2018 we completed the issuance of 13,340,000 shares of our common stock at a public offering price of $10.80 per share in an underwritten public offering for net proceeds to us of approximately $135.5 million. If in the future we sell common stock, convertible securities or other equity securities, investors may be materially diluted by. 50. subsequent sales. These sales may also result in new investors gaining rights superior to our existing stockholders. Pursuant to our equity incentive plans, our management is authorized to grant stock options and other equity-based awards to our employees, directors and consultants. The number of shares available for future grant under our equity incentive plans as of February 28, 2018, was 263,933 shares.. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends, and accordingly, stockholders must rely on stock appreciation for any return on their investment.. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the future. As a result, only appreciation of the price of our common stock, which may never occur, will provide a return to stockholders. Investors seeking cash dividends should not invest in our common stock. In addition, our ability to pay cash dividends is currently prohibited without the prior consent of the lender pursuant to the terms of our 2015 loan and security agreements.. We may be subject to securities litigation, which is expensive and could divert management attention.. Our share price is volatile, and in the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business.. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management.. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our bylaws may delay or prevent an acquisition of us. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, who are responsible for appointing the members of our management team. In addition, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits, with some exceptions, stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us. Finally, our charter documents establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings. Although we believe these provisions together provide for an opportunity to receive higher bids by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors, they would apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders."
