[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Unfavorable economic and market conditions, domestically and internationally, may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We have significant customer sales both in the U.S. and internationally. We are also reliant upon U.S. and international suppliers, manufacturing partners and distributors. We are therefore susceptible to adverse U.S. and international economic and market conditions. If any of our manufacturing partners, customers, distributors or suppliers experience serious financial difficulties or cease operations, our business will be adversely affected. In addition, the adverse impact of an unfavorable economy on consumers, including high unemployment rates, may adversely impact consumer spending, which will adversely impact demand for products such as certain end products in which our products are embedded. In addition, prices of certain commodities, including oil, metals, grains and other food products, are subject to fluctuations arising from changes in domestic and international supply and demand, labor costs, competition, market speculation, government regulations and periodic delays in delivery. High or volatile commodity prices increase the cost of doing business and adversely affect consumers' discretionary spending. As a result of the difficulty that businesses (including our customers) may have in obtaining credit, the increasing and/or volatile costs of commodities and the decreased consumer spending that may result from weakness in the general global economy, global economic and market turmoil are likely to have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The trading price of our common stock has been and will likely continue to be volatile due to various factors, some of which are beyond our control, and each of which could adversely affect our stockholders' value.. The trading price of our common stock has been and will likely continue to be volatile due to various factors, some of which are beyond our control, including, but not limited to:. • Revenue fluctuations due to unexpected shifts in customer demand;. • Announcements about our earnings or the earnings of our competitors that are not in line with analyst expectations;. • Our ability to execute on our long term strategic corporate transformation initiatives, collectively known as our Cypress 3.0 initiatives, and our gross margin improvement plan;. • Credit conditions and our ability to refinance our existing debt at commercially reasonable terms, which may limit the Company's working capital;. • Quarterly variations in our results of operations or those of our competitors;. • Announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, new products, significant contracts, design wins, commercial relationships or capital commitments;. • The perceptions of general market conditions in the semiconductor industry (including recent trends toward consolidation in the semiconductor industry) and global market conditions;. • Our ability to develop and market new and enhanced products on a timely basis;. • Any major change in our board or senior management;. • Changes in governmental regulations or in the status of our regulatory compliance that impact our business;. • Recommendations by securities analysts or changes in earnings estimates concerning us or our customers or competitors;. • The volume of short sales, hedging and other derivative transactions on shares of our common stock;. • Economic conditions and growth expectations in the markets we serve;. • Changes in our policy regarding dividends or our ability to declare a dividend;. • Changes in our policy regarding stock repurchases or our ability to repurchase shares of our common stock;. • Supply disruption or price increases from third-party manufacturing partners;. • Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to repay debt and. • Litigation, including any disputes or legal proceedings associated with activist investors.. 12. Further, the stock market in general, and the market for technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources.. We utilize debt financing and such indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and earnings per share. We may be unable to meet our payment obligations.. We incur indebtedness to finance our operations and we have substantial amounts of outstanding indebtedness and debt service requirements. Our credit facility contains customary affirmative, negative and financial covenants, including a maximum total leverage ratio and a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio. Our ability to meet our payment and other obligations and covenants under our indebtedness depends on our ability to generate significant cash flow. This, to some extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors as well as other factors that are beyond our control. There is no assurance that our business will generate cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us under our existing (or any amended) credit facilities or otherwise, in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet payment obligations under any indebtedness we may incur from time to time. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations or meet required debt covenants, we may need to refinance or restructure our debt, sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital. There is no assurance that we will be able to implement any of these alternatives on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we are unable to implement one or more of these alternatives, we may not be able to meet our payment obligations under any indebtedness we owe. In addition, an inability to meet our payment obligations under any indebtedness may trigger a default, and possible acceleration of payment terms, under the applicable debt financing agreements.. Furthermore, the interest rate on certain of these instruments is tied to short term interest rate benchmarks including the Prime Rate and LIBOR.  Interest rates have remained at historically low levels for a prolonged period of time and we expect interest rates to rise in the future. If the rate of interest we pay on our borrowings increases it would increase our debt-related expenditures.  There is no assurance that our business will generate cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us under our existing (or any amended) credit facilities or otherwise, in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet payment obligations (including any increased interest payment obligations) under any indebtedness we may incur from time to time.. As of December 31, 2017, our outstanding debt, net of cost, primarily included:. • $90.0 million related to our Senior Secured Revolving Credit Facility. • $495.4 million Term Loan B. • $131.4 million of our 2% 2023 Exchangeable Notes. • $246.6 million of our 4.5% 2022 Senior Exchangeable Notes and. • $20.4 million of our 2% 2020 Spansion Exchangeable Notes. See Note 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information regarding our debt obligations.. If we fail to compete successfully in our highly competitive industry and markets, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be seriously harmed.. The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive. This intense competition results in a difficult operating environment that is marked by erosion of average selling prices over the life of each product and rapid technological change resulting in limited product life cycles. In order to offset selling price decreases, we attempt to decrease the manufacturing costs of our products and to introduce new, higher priced products that incorporate advanced features. If these efforts are not successful or do not occur in a timely manner, or if our newly introduced products do not gain market acceptance, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed.. Our ability to compete successfully in the rapidly evolving semiconductor industry depends on many factors, including:. • our ability to successfully execute on our long term strategic corporate transformation initiatives, collectively known as our Cypress 3.0 initiatives;. 13. • our success in developing and marketing new products, software platforms and manufacturing technologies and bringing them to market on a timely basis;. • the quality and price of our products, and our ability to meet the specification requirements of our customers;. • the willingness of our customer base to absorb any increase in the price that we sell our products;. • the pace at which customers incorporate our products into their systems, as is sometimes evidenced by design wins;. • the diversity of our product lines;. • the cost effectiveness of our design, development, manufacturing, support and marketing efforts, especially as compared to our competitors;. • our success in developing and introducing firmware in a timely manner;. • our customer service and customer satisfaction;. • our ability to successfully execute our flexible manufacturing strategy;. • the number, strength and nature of our competitors, the markets they target and the rate and success of their technological advances;. • the success of certain of our development activity including our investments in internal and external development stage startups;. • our ability to get competitive terms with our vendors, manufacturing partners and suppliers;. • general economic conditions;. • the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry;. • our ability to maintain supply of products from third party manufacturers; and. • our access to and the availability of working capital.. Although we believe we currently compete effectively in the above areas to the extent they are within our control, given the pace of change in our industry (including recent trends toward consolidation in the industry), our current abilities are not guarantees of future success. If we are unable to compete successfully in this environment, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be seriously harmed.. We face significant volatility in supply and demand conditions for our products, and this volatility, as well as any failure by us to accurately forecast future supply and demand conditions, could materially and negatively impact our business.. The semiconductor industry has historically been characterized by wide fluctuations in the demand for, and supply of, semiconductors. Demand for our products depends in large part on the continued growth of various electronics industries that use our products, including, but not limited to:. • automotive applications including advanced driver assistance systems (ADAS), instrument clusters, infotainment systems, body electronics, connectivity, HVAC controls, event data recorders;. • industrial systems including factory automation equipment, smart electric meters, aerospace, industrial controls, point-of-sale terminals and test equipment;. • Wireless products including smart home applications, health and fitness, audio, automotive, medical device and industrial devices;. • consumer electronics including wearable electronics, smartphones and other mobile devices, gaming consoles, game-pads, remote controls, toys, presenter tools, TVs, set-top boxes and fitness equipment;. • wireless telecommunications equipment;. • computers and computer-related peripherals;. • medical equipment; and. • networking equipment.. Any downturn, shift in product launch schedule or reduction in the growth of these industries could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, pricing in the semiconductor industry is subject to significant volatility. As an example, pricing of memory products during fiscal 2017 was significantly impacted by industry conditions. We may be unable to anticipate or manage price volatility which may adversely impact our margins, market share, financial condition and results of our operations.. We order materials and build our products based primarily on our internal forecasts, customer and distributor forecasts and secondarily on existing orders, which may be canceled under many circumstances. Because our markets can be volatile, based on consumer demand and subject to rapid technological changes, our forecasts may be inaccurate, causing us to make too many or too few of certain products.. 14. Our customers frequently place orders requesting product delivery almost immediately after the order is made, which makes forecasting customer demand even more difficult, particularly when supply is abundant. In addition, demand for our products could be materially different from our expectations due to changes in customer order patterns, including order deferrals or cancellations. If we experience inadequate demand, order cancellations, or a significant shift in the mix of product orders that makes our existing capacity and capability inadequate, our fixed costs per semiconductor produced will increase, which will harm our financial condition and results of operations.. Alternatively, if we should experience a sudden increase in demand, we will need to quickly ramp our inventory and/or manufacturing capacity to adequately respond to our customers. If we or our manufacturing partners are unable to ramp our inventory or manufacturing capacity in a timely manner or at all, we risk losing our customers' business, which could have a negative impact on our financial performance and reputation.. If we fail to develop, introduce and sell new products or fail to develop and implement new technologies, our ability to compete in our end markets will suffer and our financial results could be adversely impacted.. Like many semiconductor companies, which operate in a highly competitive, quickly changing environment marked by rapid obsolescence of existing products, our future success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products that customers choose to buy. Our new products, for example PSoC® products, our wireless connectivity products, USB-C, and Traveo\231 microcontroller products, are an important strategic focus for us and therefore, they tend to consume a significant amount of our resources. The new products the market requires tend to be increasingly complex, incorporating more functions including software and security and operating at faster speeds than old products.. Increasing complexity generally requires additional features on a smaller chip. This makes manufacturing new generations of products substantially more difficult, more costly and more time consuming than prior generations.. Despite the significant amount of resources, we commit to new products, there can be no guarantee that such products will perform as expected or at all, be introduced on time to meet customer schedules or gain market acceptance. If we fail to introduce new product designs or technologies in a timely manner, or are unable to manufacture products according to these design requirements, or if our customers do not successfully introduce new systems or products incorporating our products or if market demand for our new products does not materialize as anticipated, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed.. The complex nature of our manufacturing activities, our broad product portfolio, and our increasing reliance on third-party manufacturers makes us highly susceptible to manufacturing problems and these problems can have a substantial negative impact on us if they occur.. Manufacturing semiconductors is a highly complex and precise process, requiring production in tightly controlled, clean-room environments. Even very small impurities in our manufacturing materials, defects in the masks used to print circuits on a wafer or other problems in the wafer fabrication process can cause a substantial percentage of products to be rejected and be non-functional. We and, similarly, our third-party foundry partners, may experience problems in achieving an acceptable success rate in the manufacture of wafers and the likelihood of facing such difficulties is higher in connection with the transition to new manufacturing methods. The interruption of wafer fabrication, a reduction in available wafer supply, the failure to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields, or the inability to achieve acceptable levels of quality and security in our products as expected by our customers, including our customers in the automotive industry, at any of our facilities, or the facilities of our third-party foundry partners, would seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. This risk may be exacerbated by our recent divestiture and future divestitures of any of our manufacturing facilities, as we would be increasing our reliance on third-party partners in that situation.. In March 2017, we completed the sale of our semiconductor wafer fabrication facility in Bloomington, Minnesota.. The purchaser intends to operate the fabrication facility as a stand-alone business that will manufacture wafers for Cypress and for other semiconductor manufacturers. Although this transaction allows us to reduce our manufacturing footprint, it will increase our reliance on third-party suppliers.  Accordingly, if the new owner of our Bloomington fabrication facility is unable to effectively operate the facility, faces financial difficulty, or is otherwise unable to meet our product demands, our supply of components may be adversely affected.  Such events could lead to difficulties in delivering products to our customers on time and have a negative impact on our revenue and financial results.. 15. We may also experience manufacturing problems in our assembly and test operations (or the assembly and test operations of third-party partners) and in the introduction of new packaging materials.. We are dependent on third parties to manufacture products, distribute products, generate a significant portion of our product sales, fulfill our customer orders and transport our products. Problems in the performance or availability of these companies could seriously harm our financial performance.. We rely significantly on independent contractors to manufacture, which includes assembly of, our products. In addition, in March 2017, we divested our manufacturing facility located in Minnesota, which reduces our internal manufacturing capacity.. If market demand for our products exceeds our internal manufacturing capacity and available capacity from our foundry partners, we may seek additional foundry manufacturing arrangements.. A shortage in foundry manufacturing capacity, which is more likely to occur at times of increasing demand, could hinder our ability to meet demand for our products and therefore adversely affect our operating results. Suppliers may extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices due to commodity price increases, capacity constraints or other factors, which may lead to interruption of supply which could materially harm our results of operations. In addition, greater demand for wafers produced by any such foundries without an offsetting increase in foundry capacity raises the likelihood of potential wafer price increases. Our operations would be disrupted if any of our foundry partners terminates its relationship with us or experiences financial difficulty and we are unable to arrange a satisfactory alternative to fulfill customer orders on a timely basis and in a cost-effective manner. There are also only a few foundry vendors that have the capabilities to manufacture our most advanced products.  If we engage alternative sources of supply, we may encounter start-up difficulties, yield issues or incur additional costs. Shipments could be delayed significantly while these sources are qualified for volume production.. While many of our products are assembled, packaged and tested at our manufacturing facilities located in the Philippines and Thailand, we rely on independent subcontractors to assemble, package and test the balance of our products. We cannot be certain that these subcontractors will continue to assemble, package and test products for us on acceptable economic and quality terms or at all and it might be difficult for us to find alternatives if they do not do so.. Our foundry partners and assembly and test subcontractors have operations in locations that may suffer the impact of certain natural disasters and political risk, which could impact their ability to provide us with our products. We monitor these events closely, but if one of our third-party manufacturing partners were to suffer significant damage to its operations as a result of a natural disaster or other catastrophic events, our ability to timely meet consumer demand would suffer which would materially harm our results of operations.. Our channel partners include distributors and resellers. We continue to expand and change our relationships with our distributors. Worldwide sales through our distributors accounted for approximately 73% of our net sales in fiscal year 2017. We rely on many distributors to assist us in creating customer demand, providing technical support and other value-added services to our customers, filling customer orders and stocking our products. We face ongoing business risks due to our reliance on our channel partners to create and maintain customer relationships where we have a limited or no direct relationship. Should our relationships with our channel partners or their effectiveness decline, we face the risk of declining demand which could affect our revenue and results of operations. Our contracts with our distributors may be terminated by either party upon notice. The termination of a significant distributor or a reseller could (a) impact our revenue and limit our access to certain end-customers, (b) result in the return of a material amount of inventory held by the distributor or reseller that we may not be able to resell or have to resell at a loss, and (c) jeopardize our ability to collect accounts receivable originating through that distributor or reseller. In addition, our distributors are located all over the world and are of various sizes and financial strength. Any disruptions to our distributors' operations such as lower sales, lower earnings, debt downgrades, the inability to access capital markets and/or higher interest rates could have an adverse impact on our business.. We also rely on independent carriers and freight haulers to move our products between manufacturing plants and our customers' facilities. Transport or delivery problems due to their error or because of unforeseen interruptions in their business due to factors such as strikes, political instability, terrorism, natural disasters or accidents could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations and ultimately impact our relationship with our customers.. 16. We may not be able to consume minimum commitments under our \"take or pay\" agreements, which may have a material adverse impact on our earnings.. We have entered into agreements with certain vendors that include \"take or pay\" terms.  Take or pay terms obligate us to purchase a minimum required amount of services or make specified payments in lieu of such purchase.  We may not be able to consume minimum commitments under these take or pay terms, requiring payments to vendors, which may have a material adverse impact on our earnings.. Failures in our products or in the products of our customers including those resulting from security vulnerabilities, defects or errors, could harm our business.. The use of devices containing our products to access untrusted content create a risk of exposing the products into viral or malicious risks. While we continue to focus on this issue and are taking measures to safeguard our products from cybersecurity threats, device capabilities continue to evolve, enabling more data and processes, such as computing, and increasing the risk of security failures. Further, our products are inherently complex and may contain defects or errors that are detected only when the products are in use. The design process interface in new domains of technology and the migration to integrated circuit technologies with smaller geometric feature sizes are complex and add risk to manufacturing yields and reliability. Further, manufacturing, testing, marketing and use of our products and those of our customers entail the risk of product liability. Because our products and services are responsible for critical functions in our customers' products, security failures, defects or errors in our products or services could have an adverse impact on us, on our customers and/or on the end users of our customers' products. Such adverse impact could include product liability claims or recalls, write-offs of our inventories, property, plant and equipment and/or intangible assets; unfavorable purchase commitments; a shift of business to our competitors; a decrease in demand for our products; damage to our reputation and to our customer relationships; and other financial liability or harm to our business. Further, security failures, defects or errors in the products of our customers could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and/or cash flows due to a delay or decrease in demand for our products generally.. System security risks, data protection or privacy breaches, cyber-attacks and systems integration issues could disrupt our internal operations and/or harm the reputation of the Company, and any such disruption or harm could cause a reduction in our expected revenue, increase our expenses, negatively impact our results of operation or otherwise adversely affect our stock price.. Experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate or compromise our confidential and proprietary information, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. Computer programmers and hackers also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products. The costs to us to eliminate or alleviate cyber or other security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and security vulnerabilities could be significant, and our efforts to address these problems may not be successful and could result in interruptions and delays that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions.. We manage and store various proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to our business on the cloud. Breaches of our security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us, including the potential loss or disclosure of such information or data as a result of fraud, trickery or other forms of deception, could expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation or otherwise harm our business. In addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures could be significant.. Portions of our IT infrastructure also may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors in connection with systems integration or migration work that takes place from time to time. We may not be successful in implementing new systems and transitioning data, which could cause business disruptions and be more expensive, time consuming, disruptive and resource-intensive than originally anticipated. Such disruptions could adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders and interrupt other processes. Delayed sales, lower margins or lost customers resulting from these disruptions have adversely affected us in the past, and in the future, could adversely affect our financial results, stock price and reputation.. 17. We are in the process of implementing our worldwide business application suite, and difficulties, distraction or disruption may interrupt our normal operations and adversely affect our business and operating results.. During fiscal year 2017, we devoted significant resources to the upgrade of our worldwide business application suite from Oracle's version 11i to Oracle's version R12. We plan to go live with the upgrade in Q1 fiscal 2018. As a result of our transition to the new business application suite, we may experience difficulties with our systems, lack of visibility into our business operations and results, and significant business disruptions. Difficulties with our systems may interrupt our normal operations, including our enterprise resource planning, forecasting, demand planning supply planning, inter-company processes, internal financial controls, pricing, and our ability to provide quotes, process orders, ship products, provide services and support to our customers, bill and track our customers, fulfill contractual obligations, and otherwise run and track our business. Any difficulty or disruption may adversely affect our business and operating results.. Changes in U.S. and international tax legislation and tax policy could materially impact our business.. A majority of our revenue is generated from customers located outside the U.S. and a substantial portion of our assets, including employees, are located outside the U.S. In the past, tax administrations globally have considered initiatives which could substantially eliminate utilization or reduce our ability to claim net operating losses and foreign tax credits, and eliminate various tax deductions. If any of these proposals are constituted into law, they could have a negative impact on our financial position and results of operations.. We are subject to income tax, and from time to time, examinations by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, U.S. local tax administrations, and similar proceedings in foreign jurisdictions in which we do business. As a result, we may incur additional costs and expenses, and owe additional taxes, interest and penalties which will negatively impact our operating results and cash flows. The results of these U.S. and certain foreign jurisdiction examinations may also decrease our current estimate of unrecognized tax benefits.. Tax laws are dynamic and subject to change as new laws are passed and new interpretations of the law are issued or applied. The U.S. recently enacted significant tax reform. We are still evaluating the impact, but certain provisions such as the base erosion anti-abuse tax provision of the new law may adversely affect us. The Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development, or OECD, also recently released guidance covering various topics, including country-by-country reporting, definitional changes to permanent establishment and Base Erosion and Profit Shifting, or BEPS, an initiative that aims to standardize and modernize global tax policy. Depending on the final guidance, if any, there may be significant consequences for the Company due to the large scale of our international business activities.. If the tax incentive or tax holiday arrangements we have negotiated in Malaysia, the Philippines and Thailand change or cease to be in effect or applicable, in part or in whole, for any reason, or if our assumptions and interpretations regarding tax laws and incentive or holiday arrangements prove to be incorrect, the amount of corporate income taxes we have to pay could significantly increase.. We have structured our operations to maximize the benefit from various tax incentives and tax holidays extended to the Company in various jurisdictions to encourage investment or employment. Each tax incentive is separate and distinct from the others, and may be granted, withheld, extended, modified, truncated, complied with or terminated independently without any effect on the other incentives. The tax incentives are presently scheduled to expire at various dates generally beginning in 2018, subject in certain cases to potential extensions, which we may or may not be able to obtain. Absent these tax incentives, the corporate income tax rate in these jurisdictions that would otherwise apply to us would be between 20% and 30%. The tax incentives that we have negotiated are also subject to our compliance with various operating and other conditions. If we cannot, or elect not to, comply with the operating conditions included in any particular tax incentive, we will lose the related tax benefits and we could be required to refund previously realized material tax benefits. Depending on the incentive at issue, we could also be required to modify our operational structure and tax strategy, which may not be as beneficial to us as the benefits provided under the present tax concession arrangements. Our interpretations and conclusions regarding the tax incentives are not binding on any taxing authority, and if our assumptions about tax and other laws are incorrect or if these tax incentives are substantially modified or rescinded we could suffer material adverse tax and other financial consequences, which could adversely affect our cash flows.. 18. We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting that, if not remediated, could adversely affect investor confidence and our business, results of operations and stock price.. As disclosed in Item 9A of this report, we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017 related to management's controls over accounting for stock-based compensation, especially the controls over the accounting for our employee stock purchase plan (ESPP). A material weakness is defined as a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. As a result of the material weakness identified, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2017. We are actively engaged in implementing a remediation plan designed to address this material weakness. However, we cannot provide any assurance that these remediation efforts will be successful or that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective as a result of these efforts. If our remediation measures are insufficient to address this material weakness, or if additional material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting are discovered or occur in the future, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements, which could require us to restate our consolidated financial statements. Any restatement of our consolidated financial statements could negatively impact investor confidence and could lead to litigation against us, which could be time-consuming, costly or divert significant operational resources, any of which could adversely affect our business, results of our operations and stock price.. We may dispose of certain businesses, product lines or assets, which could adversely affect our results of operations and liquidity.. From time to time, we may divest certain businesses, product lines or assets, both acquired or otherwise, that are no longer strategically important, or we may exit minority investments, which could materially affect our cash flows and results of operations. If we decide to divest a business, product line or assets, we may encounter difficulty in finding or completing such divestiture opportunity (or alternative exit strategy) on acceptable terms or in a timely manner. These circumstances could delay the achievement of our strategic objectives or cause us to incur additional expenses with respect to the business, product line or assets that we seek to dispose. In addition, any delay in the timing of a divestiture transaction may negatively impact our business operations or liquidity for a period of time. Alternatively, we may dispose of businesses, product lines or assets at prices or on terms that are less favorable than we had anticipated. Even following a divestiture, we may be contractually obligated with respect to certain continuing obligations to customers, vendors, landlords or other third parties. Accordingly, we may be dependent on the new owner (of such business, product line or manufacturing facility) to fulfill our continuing obligations to our customers. We may also have continuing obligations for pre-existing liabilities related to the divested assets or businesses. Such obligations may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Any such dispositions could also result in disruption to other parts of our business, potential loss of employees or customers (especially if the new owner is unable or unwilling to assist us in fulfilling any continuing obligations to our customers), potential loss of revenue, negative impact on our margins, exposure to unanticipated liabilities or result in ongoing obligations and liabilities to us following any such divestiture. We may also incur significant costs associated with exit or disposal activities, related impairment charges, or both.. We cannot be assured that our restructuring initiatives will be successful.. From time to time, we have implemented restructuring plans to reduce our operating costs and/or shift our expenditures to different areas of our business.  However, if we have not sufficiently reduced operating expenses or if revenues are below our expectations, we may be required to engage in additional restructuring activities, which could result in additional restructuring charges. These restructuring charges could harm our results of operations. Further, our restructuring plans could result in potential adverse effects on employee capabilities, on our ability to achieve design wins, and our ability to maintain and enhance our customer base. Such events could harm our efficiency and our ability to act quickly and effectively in the rapidly changing technology markets in which we sell our products.  In addition, we may be unsuccessful in our efforts to realign our organizational structure and shift our investments and focus to our high-growth businesses.. 19. Our financial results could be adversely impacted if privately-held companies (that we have invested in) fail to develop and successfully bring to market new and proprietary products.. We have made a financial commitment to certain investments in privately-held companies. Despite the significant amount of resources, we commit to these companies, there can be no guarantee that such businesses will perform as expected or at all, launch new products and solutions as expected or gain market acceptance. If these privately-held companies fail to introduce new products and solutions or successfully develop new technologies, or if customers do not successfully introduce new systems or products incorporating the products or solutions offered by these businesses or if market demand for the products or solutions offered by these businesses do not materialize as anticipated or if these privately-held companies are not able to raise capital to fund their operations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed as a result of impairment of the carrying value of our investments in such privately-held companies.. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, we incurred an other-than-temporary impairment charge for our investment in Enovix Corporation.. Acquisitions and investments could result in operating difficulties, dilution, and other harmful consequences that may adversely impact our business and results of operations.. Acquisitions are an important element of our overall corporate strategy and use of capital. These transactions could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. We expect to continue to evaluate and enter into discussions regarding a wide array of potential strategic transactions. The process of integrating an acquired company, business, or technology has created, and will continue to create, unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. The areas where we face risks include, but are not limited to:. • Diversion of management time and focus from operating our business to integration challenges;. • Cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired company into our organization, and retention of employees from the businesses we acquire;. • Successfully transitioning the current customer, supplier, foundry and other partnering relationships of the acquired company;. •Implementation or remediation of controls, procedures, and policies at the acquired company;. • Integration of the acquired company's accounting, human resource, and other administrative systems, and coordination of product, engineering, and sales and marketing functions;. • In the case of acquired companies with global operations, the need to integrate operations across different cultures and languages and to address the particular economic, currency, political, and regulatory risks associated with specific countries;. •Failure to successfully further develop the acquired business or technology;. • Liability for activities of the acquired company before the acquisition, including intellectual property infringement claims, violations of laws, commercial disputes, tax liabilities, and other known and unknown liabilities; and. • Pending litigation or other known or unknown claims in connection with the acquired company, including claims by stockholders for breach of fiduciary duties, terminated employees, customers, former stockholders, or other third parties.. Our failure to address these and other risks or other problems encountered in connection with our past or current acquisitions and investments could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions or investments, incur unanticipated liabilities, and harm our business generally. Current and future acquisitions could also result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, amortization expenses, or write-offs of goodwill, any of which could harm our financial condition or results. As a result, the anticipated benefit of any of our acquisitions may not be realized.. In 2016, we incurred a material impairment charge with respect to our goodwill, and we may in the future incur impairments in the value of our goodwill, intangibles and property, plant and equipment.. 20. Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired in a business combination. We test goodwill for impairment annually, and more frequently when events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. In 2016, we conducted impairment testing on the goodwill in our legacy Programmable Solutions Division (\"PSD\") and recorded an impairment charge of $488.5 million. In addition, our other long-lived assets which include intangibles and property, plant and equipment are evaluated for impairments whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Either of these situations may occur for various reasons, including changes in actual or expected income or cash flow. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016 we have reorganized our reportable segments as a result of which goodwill was reallocated to new segments. We continue to evaluate current conditions to assess whether any impairment exists. Additional impairments could occur in the future if any of the following occur: market or interest rate environments deteriorate, significant adverse changes in business climate, unanticipated competition, loss of key customers, changes in technology, expected future cash flows of our reporting units decline, or reporting unit carrying values change materially compared with changes in respective fair values.. We compete with others to attract and retain key personnel, and any loss of, or inability to attract, such personnel would harm us.. To a greater degree than most non-technology companies, we depend on the efforts and abilities of certain key members of management and technical personnel to execute on the strategic initiatives of our business. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to retain such personnel and to attract and retain other highly qualified personnel, particularly product and process engineers. We compete for these individuals with certain of our competitors, other companies, academic institutions, government entities and other organizations. Competition for such personnel, particularly in the Silicon Valley, is intense and we may not be successful in hiring or retaining new or existing qualified personnel. Furthermore, changes in immigration and work permit laws and regulations or the administration or enforcement of such laws or regulations can also impair our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Equity awards are critical to our ability to hire and retain such key personnel, and any reduction in the price of our common stock (and accordingly the value of such equity awards) may reduce the willingness of key personnel to remain employed by the Company. In addition, we may also need to significantly increase our cash-based compensation to retain such personnel.. Our business may also be impacted if we lose members of our senior management team.  Any disruption in management continuity could impact our results of operations and stock price and may make recruiting for future management positions more difficult. In addition, changes in key management positions may temporarily affect our financial performance and results of operations as new management becomes familiar with our business. The loss of any of our key officers or other employees, or our inability to attract, integrate and retain qualified employees, could require us to dedicate significant financial and other resources to such personnel matters, disrupt our operations and seriously harm our operations and business.. If we are unable to obtain stockholder approval of additional shares for our share-based compensation award programs in the future, we could be at a competitive disadvantage in the marketplace for qualified personnel.. Our compensation program, which includes cash and share-based compensation award components, has been instrumental in attracting, hiring, motivating, and retaining qualified personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry is extremely intense, particularly for engineering and other technical personnel. Our success depends on our continued ability to attract, hire, motivate, and retain qualified personnel and our share-based compensation award programs provide us with a competitive compensatory tool for this purpose. The continued use of our share-based compensation program is necessary for us to compete for engineering and other technical personnel and professional talent. In the future, if we are unable to obtain stockholder approval of additional shares for our share-based compensation award programs, we could be at a competitive disadvantage in the marketplace for qualified personnel.. There can be no assurance we will continue to declare dividends.. 21. Our Board of Directors previously adopted a policy pursuant to which the Company would pay quarterly cash dividends on our common stock. The declaration and payment of any dividend or distribution is subject to the approval of our Board and our dividend may be discontinued or reduced at any time. There can be no assurance that we will declare dividends or distributions in the future in any particular amounts, or at all.  Future dividends or distributions, if any, and their timing and amount, may be affected by, among other factors, management's views on potential future capital requirements for strategic transactions, including acquisitions; earnings levels; contractual restrictions; our cash position and overall financial condition; debt related payments and commitments, including restrictive covenants which may limit our ability to pay a dividend or distribution; changes in tax or corporate laws; our ability to repatriate cash into the United States; stock repurchase programs; the need to invest in research and development or other parts of our business operations; and changes to our business model. Accordingly, our dividend or other distribution payments may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends or other distributions in any particular amounts or at all. A reduction in our dividend payments or a change in the tax treatment of future dividends could have a negative effect on our stock price.. We may have fluctuations in the amount and frequency of our stock repurchases and there can be no assurance that we will continue to repurchase shares of our stock.. In October 2015, our Board of Directors approved a new share repurchase plan pursuant to which we are authorized to repurchase our common stock in an aggregate amount not to exceed $450 million. Although our Board of Directors has approved a share repurchase program, the share repurchase program does not obligate us to repurchase any specific dollar amount or number of shares. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will continue to repurchase shares of our stock in any particular amounts, or at all. The stock repurchase plan could affect the price of our stock and increase volatility and may be suspended or terminated at any time without prior notice and in compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, which may result in a decrease in the trading price of our common stock.  Through the end the 2016 fiscal year, we repurchased a total of 29.5 million shares for a total cost of $239.2 million under the October 2015 stock repurchase plan. A substantial majority of these purchases were made prior to the start of our second quarter of 2016. In fiscal 2017, we did not repurchase any shares in open market under the stock repurchase plan.. Any guidance that we may provide about our business or expected future results may differ significantly from actual results.. From time to time we have shared our views in press releases or SEC filings, on public conference calls and in other contexts about current business conditions and our expectations as to our future results of operations. Correctly identifying the key factors affecting business conditions and predicting future events is inherently an uncertain process, especially in uncertain economic times. Given the complexity and volatility of our business, our analysis and forecasts have in the past and will likely in the future, prove to be incorrect. We offer no assurance that such predictions or analysis will ultimately be accurate, and investors should treat any such predictions or analysis with appropriate caution. Any analysis or forecast that we make which ultimately proves to be inaccurate may adversely affect our stock price.. Industry consolidation may lead to increased competition and may harm our operating results.. There has been a trend toward industry consolidation in our markets for several years. We expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry and as companies are acquired or are unable to continue operations. Industry consolidation may result in stronger companies that are better able to compete with us. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition.. 22. We may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights.. The protection of our intellectual property rights, is essential to keeping others from copying the innovations that are critical to our existing and future products. It may be possible for an unauthorized third party to reverse-engineer or decompile our software products. The process of seeking patent protection can be long and expensive and we cannot be certain that any currently pending or future applications will actually result in issued patents, or that, even if patents are issued, they will be respected by third parties. Furthermore, our flexible fab initiative requires us to enter into technology transfer agreements with external partners, providing third party access to our intellectual property and resulting in additional risk. In some cases, these technology transfer and/or license agreements are with foreign companies and subject our intellectual property to regulation in foreign countries which may afford less protection and/or result in increased costs to enforce such agreements or intellectual property rights. We anticipate that we will continue to enter into these kinds of licensing arrangements in the future. Consequently, we may become involved in litigation, in the United States or abroad, to enforce our patents or other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets and know-how, to determine the validity or scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of invalidity. We may also from time to time be involved in litigation relating to alleged infringement by us of others' patents or other intellectual property rights.. Moreover, a key element of our strategy is to enter new markets with our products. If we are successful in entering these new markets, we will likely be subject to additional risks of potential infringement claims against us as our technologies are deployed in new applications and face new competitors. We may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights, particularly in certain international markets, making misappropriation of our intellectual property more likely. Patent litigation, if necessary or when instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources. In addition, in August 2016, we entered into a series of agreements to divest a large number of older, legacy patents. The divestiture of these patents may limit our ability to make certain legal claims, and to be successful, in future patent litigation.. We also rely on trade secret protection for our technology, in part through confidentiality and other written agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties. Through these and other written agreements, we attempt to control access to and distribution of our intellectual property documentation and other proprietary technology information. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, former employees, consultants or third parties may, in an unauthorized manner, attempt to use, copy or otherwise obtain and market or distribute our intellectual property rights or technology or otherwise develop a product with the same functionality as our technology. Policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights is difficult, and nearly impossible on a worldwide basis. Therefore, we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken or will take in the future will prevent misappropriation of our technology or intellectual property rights, particularly in foreign countries where we do business or where our technology is sold or used, where the laws may not protect proprietary rights as fully as do the laws of the United States or where the enforcement of such laws is not common or effective.. We may be involved in intellectual property litigation and face significant expenses as a result of ongoing or future litigation.. Other companies or entities also have commenced, and may again commence, actions seeking to establish the invalidity of our patents. While we intend to defend these actions vigorously, there is no guarantee of success, and such effort takes significant financial and time resources from the Company. In the event that one or more of our patents are challenged, a court or the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) may invalidate the patent(s) or determine that the patent(s) is not enforceable, which could harm our competitive position. If our patents are invalidated, or if the scope of the claims in any of these patents is limited by a court or USPTO decision, we could be prevented from pursuing certain litigation matters or licensing the invalidated or limited portion of such patents. Such adverse decisions could negatively impact our future, expected revenue.. Intellectual property litigation is frequently expensive to both the winning party and the losing party and could take up significant amounts of management's time and attention. In addition, if we lose such a lawsuit, a court could find that our intellectual property rights are invalid, enabling our competitors to use our technology, or require us to pay substantial damages and/or royalties or prohibit us from using essential technologies. In addition, in August 2016, we entered into a series of agreements to divest a large number of older, legacy patents.  The divestiture of these patents may limit our ability to make certain legal claims, and to be successful, in future patent litigation. For these and other reasons, intellectual property litigation could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results. 23. of operations. Also, although in certain instances we may seek to obtain a license under a third party's intellectual property rights in order to bring an end to certain claims or actions asserted against us, we may be unable to obtain such a license on reasonable terms or at all. We believe we have meritorious defenses and claims in our current litigation and we intend to defend and pursue such claims vigorously. Unfortunately, such litigation and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties and may negatively impact our business.. The accumulation of changes in our shares by \"5-percent stockholders\" could trigger an ownership change for U.S. income tax purposes, in which case our ability to utilize our net operating losses would be limited and therefore impact our future tax benefits. Our business could be negatively affected as a result of actions by activist stockholders.. We are a publicly traded company and our stockholders can change on a daily basis. These changes are beyond our control. The U.S. Internal Revenue Code (Section 382) restricts a company's ability to benefit from net operating losses if a \"Section 382 Ownership Change\" occurs. An ownership change for purposes of U.S. tax law Section 382 may result from ownership changes that increase the aggregate ownership of \"5-percent stockholders,\" by more than 50 percentage points over a testing period, generally three years (\"Section 382 Ownership Change\"). We experienced a Section 382 Ownership Change upon the merge with Spansion. The resulting limitations accompanying the ownership change are reflected in our deferred tax assets with no permanent limitation in our ability to utilize our tax attributes.. The actions of activist stockholders, including any related legal proceedings, could adversely affect our business. Specifically:. • responding to common actions of an activist stockholder, such as public proposals and requests for special meetings, nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors, requests that certain executive officers or directors depart the Company, requests to make changes to internal business operations, requests to pursue a strategic combination or other transaction or other special requests, could disrupt our operations, be costly and time-consuming or divert the attention of our management and employees;. • perceived uncertainties as to our future direction in relation to the actions of an activist stockholder, including any perceived changes at the board or management level, may result in the loss of potential business opportunities or the perception that we are unstable and need to make changes, which may be exploited by our competitors and make it more difficult to attract and retain key personnel as well as consumers and service providers;. • actions of an activist stockholder, especially any legal proceedings, may divert management time and attention away from execution on the Company's business operations and cause the Company to incur significant costs, including expenses related to legal, public relations, investment banking, and/or proxy advisory services - these expenses could have a material adverse impact on our financial results;. • the election to our Board of Directors of director candidates who are not supported by the Company, may create unnecessary conflict and instability on our board of directors; and. • actions of an activist stockholder may cause fluctuations in our stock price based on speculative market perceptions, unflattering media coverage, or other factors that do not necessarily reflect the underlying fundamentals and prospects of our business.. We face additional problems and uncertainties associated with international operations that could seriously harm us.. International revenues historically accounted for a significant portion of our total revenues. Our manufacturing, assembly, and test operations and certain finance operations located outside of the United States, as well as our international sales offices and design centers, face risks frequently associated with foreign operations including but not limited to:. •currency exchange fluctuations;. •the devaluation of local currencies;. •political instability, and the possibility of a deteriorating relationship with the United States;. •labor issues, including collective bargaining agreements;. •the impact of natural disasters on local infrastructures and economies;. •changes in local economic conditions;. •import and export controls;. •potential shortage of power supply;. • potential violations by our international employees or third party agents of international or U.S. laws relevant to foreign operations (such as FCPA); and. 24. •changes in tax laws, tariffs and freight rates.. To the extent any such risks materialize, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be seriously harmed.. We are subject to many different environmental, data privacy, health and safety laws, regulations and directives, and compliance with them may be costly.. We are subject to many different international, federal, state and local governmental laws and regulations related to, among other things, the storage, use, discharge and disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals used in our manufacturing process, conflict mineral and data privacy legislation, as well as the health and safety regulations related to our employees. Compliance with these regulations can be costly. There can be no assurance that we have been, or will be at all times in complete compliance with such laws and regulations. If we violate or fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. Under certain environmental laws, we could be held responsible, without regard to fault, for all of the costs relating to any contamination at our or our predecessors' past or present facilities and at third party waste disposal sites. We could also be held liable for any and all consequences arising out of human exposure to such substances or other environmental damage.. Proposed or new legislation and regulations could also significantly affect our business. There currently are a number of proposals pending before federal, state, and foreign legislative and regulatory bodies. In addition, the new European General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) will take effect in May 2018 and will apply to many of our products and services that provide service in Europe. The GDPR will include operational requirements for companies that receive or process personal data of residents of the European Union that are different than those currently in place in the European Union. For example, we may be required to implement measures to change our service or limit access to our service for minors under the age of 16 for certain countries in Europe that maintain the minimum age of 16 under the GDPR. We may also be required to obtain consent and/or offer new controls to existing and new users in Europe before processing data for certain aspects of our service. In addition, the GDPR will include significant penalties for non-compliance. Similarly, there are a number of legislative proposals in the United States, at both the federal and state level, that could impose new obligations in areas affecting our business, such as liability for copyright infringement by third parties. In addition, some countries are considering or have passed legislation implementing data protection requirements or requiring local storage and processing of data or similar requirements that could increase the cost and complexity of delivering our services.. Over the last several years, there has been increased public awareness of the potentially negative environmental impact of semiconductor manufacturing operations. This attention and other factors may lead to changes in environmental regulations that could force us to purchase additional equipment or comply with other potentially costly requirements. If we fail to control the use of, or to adequately restrict the discharge of, hazardous substances under present or future regulations, we could face substantial liability or suspension of our manufacturing operations, which could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We face increasing complexity in our product design as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the material composition of our products, including the restrictions on lead and other hazardous substances that apply to specified electronic products put on the market in the European Union, China and California. Other countries, including at the federal and state levels in the United States, are also considering similar laws and regulations. Certain electronic products that we maintain in inventory may be rendered obsolete if they are not in compliance with such laws and regulations, which could negatively impact our ability to generate revenue from those products. Although we cannot predict the ultimate impact of any such new laws and regulations, they will likely result in additional costs, or in the worst case decreased revenue, and could even require that we redesign or change how we manufacture our products. Such redesigns result in additional costs and possible delayed or lost revenue.. Regulations related to \"conflict minerals\" may force us to incur additional expenses, may make our supply chain more complex and may result in damage to our reputation with customers.. On August 22, 2012, under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, or the Dodd-Frank Act, the SEC adopted new requirements for companies that use certain minerals and metals, known as conflict minerals, in their products, whether or not these products are manufactured by third parties. These requirements require companies to perform diligence, disclose and report whether or not such minerals originate from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries. We have undertaken the necessary diligence to. 25. determine whether such minerals are used in the manufacture of our products. However, the implementation of these requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of such minerals if they are found to be used in the manufacture of our products. In addition, regardless of our findings, we will incur additional costs to comply with the disclosure requirements, including costs related to determining the source of any of the relevant minerals and metals used in our products. Since our supply chain is complex, we may not be able to sufficiently verify the origins for these minerals and metals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement, which may harm our reputation. In such event, we may also face difficulties in satisfying customers who require that all of the components of our products are certified as conflict mineral free.. Business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses.. Our worldwide operations could be adversely affected if disrupted for any reason, including natural disasters such as earthquakes, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, telecommunication or information technology system failures, regulatory or political issues, power or water shortages, fires, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics or pandemics or other man- made disasters or catastrophic events. While we maintain business interruption insurance for our primary foreign manufacturing operations, we are self-insured for any loss or damage to our primary manufacturing facility. As such, the occurrence of any of these business disruptions for us or our third-party manufacturers, partners or customers could result in significant losses, seriously harm our revenue and financial condition, adversely affect our competitive position, increase our costs and expenses, and require substantial expenditures and recovery time in order to fully resume operations. Our corporate headquarters, and a portion of our research and development activities, are located in California, and other critical business operations and some of our suppliers are located in California and Asia, near major earthquake faults known for seismic activity. The manufacture of product components, the final assembly of our products and other critical operations are concentrated in certain geographic locations, including the Philippines, Thailand, Malaysia, China and India. We also rely on major logistics hubs primarily in Asia to manufacture and distribute our products. The ultimate impact on us, our significant suppliers and our general infrastructure of being located near major earthquake faults and being consolidated in certain geographical areas is unknown. However, in the event of a major earthquake or other natural disaster or catastrophic event, our revenue, profitability and financial condition could suffer.. Changes to Board of Directors and senior management may disrupt our operations, our strategic focus or our ability to drive stockholder value.. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to retain key members of our senior management team and our Board of Directors (the \"Board\") and to attract and retain other highly qualified personnel for our Board and senior management positions. Turnover may disrupt our operations, our strategic focus or our ability to drive stockholder value. If we fail to attract new skilled personnel for our Board and senior management positions, our business and growth prospects could be adversely impacted.. We have made certain indemnities to our officers and directors for which we have purchased insurance. If  material liabilities were to arise in excess of our insurance coverage, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially impacted.. Our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and indemnification agreements require us to indemnify our officers and directors for certain liabilities that may arise in the course of their service to us. If we were required to pay a significant amount on account of these liabilities, or such liabilities were not covered by insurance coverage, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed."
