[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. In evaluating our business, you should carefully consider the following risks in addition to the other information in this report. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition or your investment in our securities, and many are beyond our control. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently see as immaterial, may also adversely affect our business.. 16. Risks Related To Our Business. We have a history of significant losses and may not achieve or sustain profitability and, as a result, you may lose all or part of your investment.. We have generally incurred operating losses in each year since our inception in 1997, due to costs incurred in connection with our research and development activities and general and administrative costs associated with our operations. Our drug candidates are all in early through late-stage clinical testing, and we and our partners must conduct significant additional clinical trials before we and our partners can seek the regulatory approvals necessary to begin commercial sales of our drugs. We expect to incur increasing losses for at least several more years, as we continue our research activities and conduct development of, and seek regulatory approvals for, our drug candidates, and commercialize any approved drugs. If our drug candidates fail or do not gain regulatory approval, or if our drugs do not achieve market acceptance, we will not be profitable. If we fail to become and remain profitable, or if we are unable to fund our continuing losses, you could lose all or part of your investment.. We will need substantial additional capital in the future to sufficiently fund our operations.. We have consumed substantial amounts of capital to date, and our operating expenditures will increase over the next several years if we expand our research and development activities. We have funded all of our operations and capital expenditures with proceeds from private and public sales of our equity securities, strategic alliances with Amgen, Astellas and others, long term debt, equipment financings, interest on investments, government grants and other grants. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and interest earned on investments should be sufficient to meet our projected operating requirements for at least the next 12 months. We have based this estimate on assumptions that may prove to be wrong, and we could utilize our available capital resources sooner than we currently expect. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with the development of our drug candidates and other research and development activities, including risks and uncertainties that could impact the rate of progress of our development activities, we are unable to estimate with certainty the amounts of capital outlays and operating expenditures associated with these activities.. For the foreseeable future, our operations will require significant additional funding, in large part due to our research and development expenses and the absence of any revenues from product sales. For example, we will require significant additional funding to enable us to conduct further development of our product candidates. Until we can generate a sufficient amount of product revenue, we expect to raise future capital through strategic alliance and licensing arrangements, public or private equity offerings and debt financings. We do not currently have any commitments for future funding other than reimbursements, milestone and royalty payments that we may receive under our collaboration agreements with Amgen and Astellas. We may not receive any further funds under those agreements. Our ability to raise funds may be adversely impacted by current economic conditions. As a result of these and other factors, we do not know whether additional financing will be available when needed, or that, if available, such financing would be on terms favorable to our stockholders or us.. To the extent that we raise additional funds through strategic alliances or licensing and other arrangements with third parties, we will likely have to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies, research programs or drug candidates, or grant licenses on terms that may not be favorable to us. To the extent that we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our stockholders will experience additional dilution and our share price may decline. To the extent that we raise additional funds through debt financing, the financing may involve covenants that restrict our business activities. In addition, funding from any of these sources, if needed, may not be available to us on favorable terms, or at all, or in accordance with our planned timelines.. If we cannot raise the funds we need to operate our business, we will need to delay or discontinue certain research and development activities, and our stock price may be negatively affected.. Covenants in our loan and security agreement restrict our business and operations in many ways and if we do not effectively manage our covenants, our financial conditions and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, our operations may not provide sufficient revenue to meet the condition required in order to access the final loan available under the agreement and may also not provide sufficient cash to meet the repayment obligations of our debt incurred under the loan and security agreement.. Our loan and security agreement with Oxford Finance LLC and Silicon Valley Bank provides for up to $50.0 million in term loans due on October 1, 2022, of which $32.0 million in term loans has been borrowed to date. All of our current and future assets, except for intellectual property, are secured for our borrowings under the loan and security agreement. The loan and security agreement requires that we comply with certain covenants applicable to us, including among other things, covenants restricting dispositions, changes in business, management, ownership or business locations, mergers or acquisitions, indebtedness, encumbrances, distributions, investments, transactions with affiliates and subordinated debt, any of which could restrict our business and operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes in our business or to take specified actions to take advantage of certain business opportunities that may be. 17. presented to us. Our failure to comply with any of the covenants could result in a default under the loan and security agreement, which could permit the lenders to declare all or part of any outstanding borrowings to be immediately due and payable, or to refuse to permit additional borrowings under the loan and security agreement. If we are unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under the loan and security agreement could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that debt, which would seriously harm our business. In addition, should we be unable to comply with these covenants or if we default on any portion of our outstanding borrowings, the lenders can also impose a 5.0% penalty and restrict access to additional borrowings under the loan and security agreement. Our ability to draw a second tranche of $8.0 million under the loan and security agreement was subject to our ability to achieve certain conditions related to the outcome of the VITALITY-ALS trial, which conditions we did not satisfy. Our ability to access the remaining $10.0 million under the loan and security agreement is subject to our ability to achieve certain conditions related to Phase 2 data for reldesemtiv in SMA, which conditions we may not be able to meet. In addition, although we expect to borrow additional funds under the loan and security agreement, before we do so, we must first satisfy ourselves that we will have access to future alternate sources of capital, including cash flow from our own operations, equity capital markets or debt capital markets in order to repay any principal borrowed, which we may be unable to do, in which case, our liquidity and ability to fund our operations may be substantially impaired.. We have never generated, and may never generate, revenues from commercial sales of our drugs and we will not have drugs to market for at least several years, if ever.. We currently have no drugs for sale and we cannot guarantee that we will ever develop or obtain approval to market any drugs. To receive marketing approval for any drug candidate, we must demonstrate that the drug candidate satisfies rigorous standards of safety and efficacy to the FDA in the United States and other regulatory authorities abroad. We and our partners will need to conduct significant additional research and preclinical and clinical testing before we or our partners can file applications with the FDA or other regulatory authorities for approval of any of our drug candidates. In addition, to compete effectively, our drugs must be easy to use, cost-effective and economical to manufacture on a commercial scale, compared to other therapies available for the treatment of the same conditions. We may not achieve any of these objectives. Currently, our only drug candidates in clinical development are omecamtiv mecarbil for the potential treatment of heart failure and reldesemtiv for the potential treatment of SMA, COPD, limited mobility, ALS and potentially other neuromuscular and non-neuromuscular indications associated with muscle weakness. We cannot be certain that the clinical development of these or any future drug candidates will be successful, that they will receive the regulatory approvals required to commercialize them, that they will ultimately be accepted by prescribers or reimbursed by insurers or that any of our other research programs will yield a drug candidate suitable for clinical testing or commercialization. Our commercial revenues, if any, will be derived from sales of drugs that we do not expect to be commercially marketed for at least several years, if at all. The development of any one or all of these drug candidates may be discontinued at any stage of our clinical trials programs and we may not generate revenue from any of these drug candidates.. Clinical trials may fail to demonstrate the desired safety and efficacy of our drug candidates, which could prevent or significantly delay completion of clinical development and regulatory approval.. Prior to receiving approval to commercialize any of our drug candidates, we or our partners must adequately demonstrate to the satisfaction of FDA and foreign regulatory authorities that the drug candidate is sufficiently safe and effective with substantial evidence from well-controlled clinical trials. We or our partners will need to demonstrate efficacy in clinical trials for the treatment of specific indications and monitor safety throughout the clinical development process and following approval. None of our drug candidates have yet met the safety and efficacy standards required for regulatory approval for commercialization and they may never do so. In addition, for each of our preclinical compounds, we or our partners must adequately demonstrate satisfactory chemistry, formulation, quality, stability and toxicity in order to submit an investigational new drug application (\"IND\") to the FDA, or an equivalent application in foreign jurisdictions, that would allow us to advance that compound into clinical trials. Furthermore, we or our partners may need to submit separate INDs (or foreign equivalent) to different divisions within the FDA (or foreign regulatory authorities) in order to pursue clinical trials in different therapeutic areas. Each new IND (or foreign equivalent) must be reviewed by the new division before the clinical trial under its jurisdiction can proceed, entailing all the risks of delay inherent to regulatory review. If our or our partners' current or future preclinical studies or clinical trials are unsuccessful, our business will be significantly harmed and our stock price could be negatively affected.. All of our drug candidates are prone to the risks of failure inherent in drug development. Preclinical studies may not yield results that would adequately support the filing of an IND (or a foreign equivalent) with respect to our potential drug candidates. Even if the results of preclinical studies for a drug candidate are sufficient to support such a filing, the results of preclinical studies do not necessarily predict the results of clinical trials. As an example, because the physiology of animal species used in preclinical studies may vary substantially from other animal species and from humans, it may be difficult to assess with certainty whether a finding from a study in a particular animal species will result in similar findings in other animal species or in humans. For any of our drug candidates, the results from Phase 1 clinical trials in healthy volunteers and clinical results from Phase 1 and 2 trials in patients are not necessarily indicative of the results of later and larger clinical trials that are necessary to establish whether the drug candidate is safe and effective for the applicable indication. Likewise, interim results from a clinical trial may not be indicative of the final results from that trial, and results. 18. from early Phase 2 clinical trials may not be indicative of the results from later clinical trials. For example, early Phase 2 clinical trials of tirasemtiv in patients with ALS showed encouraging dose-related trends in measurements of the ALS Functional Rating Scale in its revised form (ALSFRS-R), a clinically validated instrument designed to measure disease progression and changes in functional status, for patients receiving tirasemtiv compared to those receiving placebo. However, BENEFIT-ALS, a Phase 2b clinical trial of tirasemtiv in patients with ALS, did not achieve its primary efficacy endpoint, the mean change from baseline in the ALSFRS-R for patients receiving tirasemtiv compared to those receiving placebo, and in November 2017, we announced that VITALITY-ALS, a Phase 3 clinical trial of tirasemtiv in patients with ALS, did not achieve its primary endpoint or secondary endpoints. Following the results of VITALITY-ALS, we suspended development of tirasemtiv.. In addition, while the clinical trials of our drug candidates are designed based on the available relevant information, such information may not accurately predict what actually occurs during the course of the trial itself, which may have consequences for the conduct of an ongoing clinical trial or for the eventual results of that trial. For example, the number of patients planned to be enrolled in a placebo-controlled clinical trial is determined in part by estimates relating to expected treatment effect and variability about the primary endpoint. These estimates are based upon earlier nonclinical and clinical studies of the drug candidate itself and clinical trials of other drugs thought to have similar effects in a similar patient population. If information gained during the conduct of the trial shows these estimates to be inaccurate, we may elect to adjust the enrollment accordingly, which may cause delays in completing the trial, additional expense or a statistical penalty to apply to the evaluation of the trial results.. Furthermore, in view of the uncertainties inherent in drug development, such clinical trials may not be designed with focus on indications, patient populations, dosing regimens, endpoints, safety, efficacy or pharmacokinetic parameters or other variables that will provide the necessary safety or efficacy data to support regulatory approval to commercialize the resulting drugs. For example, we believe that effects on respiratory function, including SVC, may be appropriate as a clinical endpoint for reldesemtiv; however, regulatory authorities may not accept these effects as a clinical endpoint to support registration of reldesemtiv for the treatment of ALS. Clinical trials of our drug candidates are designed based on guidance or advice from regulatory agencies, which is subject to change during the development of the drug candidate at any time. Such a change in a regulatory agency's guidance or advice may cause that agency to deem results from trials to be insufficient to support approval of the drug candidate and require further clinical trials of that drug candidate to be conducted. In addition, individual patient responses to the dose administered of a drug may vary in a manner that is difficult to predict. Also, the methods we select to assess particular safety, efficacy or pharmacokinetic parameters may not yield the same statistical precision in estimating our drug candidates' effects as may other methodologies. Even if we believe the data collected from clinical trials of our drug candidates are promising, these data may not be sufficient to support approval by the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities. Non-clinical and clinical data can be interpreted in different ways. Accordingly, the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities could interpret these data in different ways from us or our partners, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval.. Administering any of our drug candidates or potential drug candidates may produce undesirable side effects, also known as adverse events. Toxicities and adverse events observed in preclinical studies for some compounds in a particular research and development program may also occur in preclinical studies or clinical trials of other compounds from the same program. Potential toxicity issues may arise from the effects of the active pharmaceutical ingredient itself or from impurities or degradants that are present in the active pharmaceutical ingredient or could form over time in the formulated drug candidate or the active pharmaceutical ingredient. These toxicities or adverse events could delay or prevent the filing of an IND (or a foreign equivalent) with respect to our drug candidates or potential drug candidates or cause us, our partners or the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities to modify, suspend or terminate clinical trials with respect to any drug candidate at any time during the development program. Further, the administration of two or more drugs contemporaneously can lead to interactions between them, and our drug candidates may interact with other drugs that trial subjects are taking. If the adverse events are severe or frequent enough to outweigh the potential efficacy of a drug candidate, the FDA or other regulatory authorities could deny approval of that drug candidate for any or all targeted indications. Even if one or more of our drug candidates were approved for sale as drugs, the occurrence of even a limited number of toxicities or adverse events when used in large populations may cause the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities to impose restrictions on, or stop, the further marketing of those drugs. Indications of potential adverse events or toxicities which do not seem significant during the course of clinical trials may later turn out to actually constitute serious adverse events or toxicities when a drug is used in large populations or for extended periods of time.. We have observed certain adverse events in the clinical trials conducted with our drug candidates. For example, in clinical trials of omecamtiv mecarbil, adverse events of chest discomfort, palpitations, dizziness and feeling hot, increases in heart rate, declines in blood pressure, electrocardiographic changes consistent with acute myocardial ischemia and transient rises in the MB fraction of creatine kinase and cardiac troponins I and T, which are indicative of myocardial infarction were observed during treatment with omecamtiv mecarbil.. 19. In addition, clinical trials of reldesemtiv and omecamtiv mecarbil enroll patients who typically suffer from serious diseases which put them at increased risk of death. These patients may die while receiving our drug candidates. In such circumstances, it may not be possible to exclude with certainty a causal relationship to our drug candidate, even though the responsible clinical investigator may view such an event as not study drug-related.. Any failure or significant delay in completing preclinical studies or clinical trials for our drug candidates, or in receiving and maintaining regulatory approval for the sale of any resulting drugs, may significantly harm our business and negatively affect our stock price.. The failure of a number of Phase 3 clinical trials evaluating other compounds as potential treatments for patients with ALS may suggest an increased risk that our clinical development program of reldesemtiv in patients with ALS will also fail.. In recent years, a number of Phase 3 clinical trials of potential treatments for ALS have failed to demonstrate the requisite efficacy for approval or for their continued development. These include our trial of tirasemtiv known as VITALITY-ALS, Biogen's trial of dexpramipexole, known as EMPOWER, the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke's trial of ceftriaxone, and Trophos SA's trial of olesoxime. Reldesemtiv, like these compounds, may fail in clinical development if it does not show a statistically significant level of clinical efficacy or if the adverse event profile is too great compared to it benefits. Further, even if we believe the data collected from Astellas' planned clinical development program of reldesemtiv are promising and should support approval, the FDA or other regulatory authorities may not deem these data to be sufficient to support approval.. Clinical trials are expensive, time-consuming and subject to delay.. Clinical trials are subject to rigorous regulatory requirements and are very expensive, difficult and time-consuming to design and implement. The length of time and number of trial sites and patients required for clinical trials vary substantially based on the type, complexity, novelty, intended use of the drug candidate and safety concerns. We estimate that the clinical trials of our current drug candidates will each continue for several more years. However, the clinical trials for all or any of our drug candidates may take significantly longer to complete. The commencement and completion of our or our partners' clinical trials could be delayed or prevented by many factors, including, but not limited to:. •  delays in obtaining, or inability to obtain, regulatory or other approvals to commence and conduct clinical trials in the manner we or our partners deem necessary for the appropriate and timely development of our drug candidates and commercialization of any resulting drugs;. •  delays in identifying and reaching agreement, or inability to identify and reach agreement, on acceptable terms, with prospective clinical trial sites and other entities involved in the conduct of our or our partners' clinical trials;. •  delays or additional costs in developing, or inability to develop, appropriate formulations of our drug candidates for clinical trial use;. •  slower than expected rates of patient recruitment and enrollment;. •  for those drug candidates that are the subject of a strategic alliance, delays in reaching agreement with our partner as to appropriate development strategies;. •  a regulatory authority may require changes to a protocol for a clinical trial that then may require approval from regulatory agencies in other jurisdictions where the trial is being conducted;. •  an institutional review board (\"IRB\") or its foreign equivalent may require changes to a protocol that then require approval from regulatory agencies and other IRBs and their foreign equivalents, or regulatory authorities may require changes to a protocol that then require approval from the IRBs or their foreign equivalents;. •  for clinical trials conducted in foreign countries, the time and resources required to identify, interpret and comply with foreign regulatory requirements or changes in those requirements, and political instability or natural disasters occurring in those countries;. •  lack of effectiveness of our drug candidates during clinical trials;. •  unforeseen safety issues;. •  inadequate supply, or delays in the manufacture or supply, of clinical trial materials;. •  uncertain dosing issues;. 20. •  failure by us, our partners, or clinical research organizations, investigators or site personnel engaged by us or our partners to comply with good clinical practices and other applicable laws and regulations, including those concerning informed consent;. •  inability or unwillingness of investigators or their staffs to follow clinical protocols;. •  failure by our clinical research organizations, clinical manufacturing organizations and other third parties supporting our or our partners' clinical trials to fulfill their obligations;. •  inability to monitor patients adequately during or after treatment;. •  introduction of new therapies or changes in standards of practice or regulatory guidance that render our drug candidates or their clinical trial endpoints obsolete; and. •  results from non-clinical studies that may adversely impact the timing or further development of our drug candidates.. We do not know whether planned clinical trials will begin on time, or whether planned or currently ongoing clinical trials will need to be restructured or will be completed on schedule, if at all. Significant delays in clinical trials will impede our ability to commercialize our drug candidates and generate revenue and could significantly increase our development costs.. If we encounter difficulties enrolling patients in our clinical trials, our clinical development activities could be delayed or otherwise adversely affected.. The timely completion of clinical trials in accordance with their protocols depends, among other things, on our ability to enroll a sufficient number of patients who remain in the study until its conclusion. We may experience difficulties in patient enrollment in clinical trials for a variety of reasons. The enrollment of patients depends on many factors, including:. •  the patient eligibility criteria defined in the protocol;. •  the size of the patient population required for analysis of the trial's primary endpoints;. •  the proximity of patients to study sites;. •  the design of the trial;. •  the ability to recruit clinical trial investigators with the appropriate competencies and experience;. •  clinicians' and patients' perceptions as to the potential advantages of the product candidate being studied in relation to other available therapies or clinical trials, including any new drugs that may be approved for the indications we are investigating or clinical trial results;. •  the ability to obtain and maintain patient consents; and. •  the risk that patients enrolled in clinical trials will drop out of the trials before completion.. In addition, our and our partners' clinical trials will compete with other clinical trials for product candidates that are in the same therapeutic areas as our and our partners' product candidates, and this competition will reduce the number and types of patients available to us, because some patients who might have opted to enroll in our or our partners' trials may instead opt to enroll in a trial being conducted by one of our competitors. Since the number of qualified clinical investigators is limited, we expect to conduct some of our or our partners' clinical trials at the same clinical trial sites that some of our competitors use, which will reduce the number of patients who are available for our clinical trials in such clinical trial site.. Delays in patient enrollment may result in increased costs or may affect the timing or outcome of the planned clinical trials, which could prevent completion of these trials and adversely affect our and our partners' ability to advance the development of product candidates.. We depend on Amgen for the conduct and funding of the development and commercialization of omecamtiv mecarbil.. Under our strategic alliance, Amgen holds an exclusive worldwide license to our drug candidate omecamtiv mecarbil. As a result, Amgen is responsible for the development and obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval of omecamtiv mecarbil for the potential treatment of heart failure worldwide.. While we announced in December 2016 that Amgen started GALACTIC-HF, a Phase 3 clinical trial of omecamtiv mecarbil, we do not control the development activities being conducted or that may be conducted in the future by Amgen, including, but not limited to, the timing of initiation, termination or completion of clinical trials, the analysis of data arising out of those clinical trials or the timing. 21. of release of data concerning those clinical trials, which may impact our ability to report on Amgen's results. Amgen may conduct these activities more slowly or in a different manner than we would if we controlled the development of omecamtiv mecarbil. Amgen is responsible for submitting future applications with the FDA and other regulatory authorities for approval of omecamtiv mecarbil and will be the owner of marketing approvals issued by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for omecamtiv mecarbil, subject to Servier's exclusive rights for the commercialization of omecamtiv mecarbil in Europe, as well as the CIS, including Russia. If the FDA or other regulatory authorities approve omecamtiv mecarbil, Amgen will also be responsible for the marketing and sale of the resulting drug, subject to our right to co-promote omecamtiv mecarbil in North America in connection with the exercise of our option to co-fund Phase 3 development costs of omecamtiv mecarbil under the collaboration and subject to Servier's exclusive rights for the commercialization of omecamtiv mecarbil in Europe, as well as the CIS, including Russia. However, we cannot control whether Amgen will devote sufficient attention and resources to the development of omecamtiv mecarbil or will proceed in an expeditious manner, even with our exercise of our option and co-funding of the Phase 3 development program of omecamtiv mecarbil. Even if the FDA or other regulatory agencies approve omecamtiv mecarbil, Amgen or Servier may elect not to proceed with the commercialization of the resulting drug in one or more countries.. Disputes may arise between us and Amgen, which may delay or cause the termination of any clinical trials of omecamtiv mecarbil, result in significant litigation or cause Amgen to act in a manner that is not in our best interest. The costs associated with the continuing development of omecamtiv mecarbil may cause Amgen to reconsider the terms of its investment and seek to amend or terminate our collaboration agreement or to suspend the development of omecamtiv mecarbil. If development of omecamtiv mecarbil does not progress for these or any other reasons, we would not receive further milestone payments or royalties on product sales from Amgen with respect to omecamtiv mecarbil. If the results of one or more clinical trials with omecamtiv mecarbil do not meet Amgen's expectations at any time, Amgen may elect to terminate further development of omecamtiv mecarbil or certain of the potential clinical trials for omecamtiv mecarbil, even if the actual number of patients treated at that time is relatively small. In addition, Amgen generally has discretion to elect whether to pursue or abandon the development of omecamtiv mecarbil and may terminate our strategic alliance for any reason upon six months prior notice. With our consent, Amgen granted Servier an option to commercialize omecamtiv mecarbil in Europe and the CIS, including Russia, which Servier decided to exercise. In August 2016, we entered into a letter agreement with Amgen and Servier, which provides that if Amgen's rights to omecamtiv mecarbil are terminated with respect to the territory subject to Servier's sublicense, the sublicensed rights previously granted by Amgen to Servier with respect to omecamtiv mecarbil, will remain in effect and become a direct license or sublicense of such rights by us to Servier, on substantially the same terms as those in the Option, License and Collaboration Agreement between Amgen and Servier. If Amgen abandons omecamtiv mecarbil, it would result in a delay in or could prevent us from commercializing omecamtiv mecarbil, and would delay and could prevent us from obtaining revenues for this drug candidate. In addition, we would be required to provide Servier with a direct license or sublicense and the rights to commercialize omecamtiv mecarbil in Europe and the CIS, including Russia on terms that were not negotiated by us. There can be no assurance that we would be able to negotiate and enter into a definitive agreement with Servier on terms favorable or acceptable to us, or at all.. If Amgen abandons development of omecamtiv mecarbil prior to regulatory approval or if it elects not to proceed with commercialization of the resulting drug following regulatory approval, we would have to seek a new partner for development or commercialization, curtail or abandon that development or commercialization, or undertake and fund the development of omecamtiv mecarbil or commercialization of the resulting drug ourselves. If we seek a new partner but are unable to do so on acceptable terms, or at all, or do not have sufficient funds to conduct the development or commercialization of omecamtiv mecarbil ourselves, we would have to curtail or abandon that development or commercialization, which could harm our business.. We depend on Astellas for the conduct and funding of the development and commercialization of reldesemtiv.. In December 2014, we expanded our strategic alliance with Astellas focused on the research, development and commercialization of skeletal muscle activators, other than tirasemtiv and certain related compounds. The primary objective of the strategic alliance is to advance novel therapies for indications associated with muscle weakness.. Under this strategic alliance, we have granted Astellas an exclusive license to co-develop and commercialize reldesemtiv for potential application in certain neuromuscular and non-neuromuscular indications worldwide. We are conducting a Phase 2 clinical trial in patients with SMA and Astellas is conducting a Phase 2 clinical trial of reldesemtiv in patients with COPD as well as a Phase 1b clinical trial in elderly subjects with limited mobility.. In 2016, we expanded our collaboration with Astellas and granted Astellas an option to enter into a pre-negotiated agreement for a global collaboration for the development and commercialization of tirasemtiv, including worldwide commercialization rights for Astellas outside our commercialization territory in North America, Europe and other select countries. In addition, under this 2016 expansion, we will collaborate with Astellas to develop reldesemtiv in ALS. Astellas will be primarily responsible for the development of reldesemtiv in ALS, and we are responsible for conducting the Phase 2 clinical trial of reldesemtiv in ALS, which we commenced in July 2017.. 22. We do not control the development activities that may be conducted by Astellas, including, but not limited to, the timing of initiation, termination or completion of clinical trials, the analysis of data arising out of those clinical trials or the timing of release of data concerning those clinical trials, which may impact our ability to report on Astellas' results. Astellas may conduct these activities more slowly or in a different manner than we would. In general, Astellas is responsible for submitting future applications with the FDA or other regulatory authorities for approval of reldesemtiv and will be the owner of any marketing approvals issued by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for reldesemtiv. If the FDA or other regulatory authorities approve reldesemtiv, Astellas will also be responsible for the marketing and sale of the resulting drug, subject to our right to co-promote the drug in the United States, Canada and, for neuromuscular indications, Europe. However, we cannot control whether Astellas will devote sufficient attention and resources to the development of reldesemtiv or will proceed in an expeditious manner. Even if the FDA or other regulatory agencies approve reldesemtiv, Astellas may elect not to proceed with the commercialization of the resulting drug in one or more countries.. If the results of one or more clinical trials with reldesemtiv do not meet Astellas' expectations at any time, Astellas may elect to terminate further development of reldesemtiv or certain of the potential clinical trials for reldesemtiv, even if the actual number of patients treated at that time is relatively small. In addition, Astellas generally has discretion to elect whether to pursue or abandon the development of reldesemtiv. Astellas may terminate our strategic alliance in whole or in part for any reason upon six months prior notice at any time following expiration of the strategic alliance's research term, which will expire December 31, 2019. If Astellas abandons reldesemtiv, it would result in a delay in or could prevent us from further developing or commercializing reldesemtiv, and would delay and could prevent us from obtaining revenues for this drug candidate. Disputes may arise between us and Astellas, which may delay or cause the termination of any reldesemtiv clinical trials, result in significant litigation or cause Astellas to act in a manner that is not in our best interest. If development of reldesemtiv does not progress for these or any other reasons, we would not receive further milestone payments or royalties on product sales from Astellas with respect to reldesemtiv. If Astellas abandons development of reldesemtiv prior to regulatory approval or if it elects not to proceed with commercialization of the resulting drug following regulatory approval, we would have to seek a new partner for development or commercialization, curtail or abandon that development or commercialization, or undertake and fund the development of reldesemtiv or commercialization of the resulting drug ourselves. If we seek a new partner but are unable to do so on acceptable terms, or at all, or do not have sufficient funds to conduct the development or commercialization of reldesemtiv ourselves, we would have to curtail or abandon that development or commercialization, which could harm our business.. If we do not enter into strategic alliances for our unpartnered drug candidates or research and development programs or fail to successfully maintain our current or future strategic alliances, we may have to reduce, delay or discontinue our advancement of our drug candidates and programs or expand our research and development capabilities and increase our expenditures.. Drug development is complicated and expensive. We currently have limited financial and operational resources to carry out drug development. Our strategy for developing, manufacturing and commercializing our drug candidates currently requires us to enter into and successfully maintain strategic alliances with pharmaceutical companies or other industry participants to advance our programs and reduce our expenditures on each program. Accordingly, the success of our development activities depends in large part on our current and future strategic partners' performance, over which we have little or no control.. Our ability to commercialize drugs that we develop with our partners and that generate royalties from product sales depends on our partners' abilities to assist us in establishing the safety and efficacy of our drug candidates, obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals and achieving market acceptance of the drugs once commercialized. Our partners may elect to delay or terminate development of one or more drug candidates, independently develop drugs that could compete with ours or fail to commit sufficient resources to the marketing and distribution of drugs developed through their strategic alliances with us. Our partners may not proceed with the development and commercialization of our drug candidates with the same degree of urgency as we would because of other priorities they face. In addition, new business combinations or changes in a partner's business strategy may adversely affect its willingness or ability to carry out its obligations under a strategic alliance.. If we are not able to successfully maintain our existing strategic alliances or establish and successfully maintain additional strategic alliances, we will have to limit the size or scope of, or delay or discontinue, one or more of our drug development programs or research programs, or undertake and fund these programs ourselves. Alternatively, if we elect to continue to conduct any of these drug development programs or research programs on our own, we will need to expand our capability to conduct clinical development by bringing additional skills, technical expertise and resources into our organization. This would require significant additional funding, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all.. 23. To the extent we elect to fund the development of a drug candidate, such as reldesemtiv, or omecamtiv mecarbil, or the commercialization of a drug at our expense, we will need substantial additional funding.. The discovery, development and commercialization of new drugs is costly. As a result, to the extent we elect to fund the development of a drug candidate, such as reldesemtiv or omecamtiv mecarbil, or the commercialization of a drug, we will need to raise additional capital to:. •  fund clinical trials and seek regulatory approvals;. •  expand our development capabilities;. •  engage third party manufacturers for such drug candidate or drug;. •  build or access commercialization capabilities;. •  implement additional internal systems and infrastructure;. •  maintain, defend and expand the scope of our intellectual property; and. •  hire and support additional management and scientific personnel.. Our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to:. •  the rate of progress and costs of our or our partners' clinical trials and other research and development activities;. •  the costs and timing of seeking and obtaining regulatory approvals;. •  the costs associated with establishing manufacturing and commercialization capabilities;. •  the costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights;. •  the costs of acquiring or investing in businesses, products and technologies;. •  the effect of competing technological and market developments; and. •  the status of, payment and other terms, and timing of any strategic alliance, licensing or other arrangements that we have entered into or may establish.. Until we can generate a sufficient amount of product revenue to finance our cash requirements, which we may never do, we expect to continue to finance our future cash needs primarily through strategic alliances, public or private equity offerings and debt financings. We cannot be certain that additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are not able to secure additional funding when needed, we may have to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our clinical trials or research and development programs or future commercialization initiatives.. We depend on contract research organizations (\"CROs\") to conduct our clinical trials and have limited control over their performance. If these CROs do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, or if we lose any of our CROs, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our product candidates on a timely basis, if at all.. We have used and intend to continue to use a limited number of CROs within and outside of the United States to conduct clinical trials of our drug candidates, such as reldesemtiv and omecamtiv mecarbil, and related activities. We do not have control over many aspects of our CROs' activities, and cannot fully control the amount, timing or quality of resources that they devote to our programs. CROs may not assign as high a priority to our programs or pursue them as diligently as we would if we were undertaking these programs ourselves. The activities conducted by our CROs therefore may not be completed on schedule or in a satisfactory manner. CROs may also give higher priority to relationships with our competitors and potential competitors than to their relationships with us. Outside of the United States, we are particularly dependent on our CROs' expertise in communicating with clinical trial sites and regulatory authorities and ensuring that our clinical trials and related activities and regulatory filings comply with applicable laws.. Our CROs' failure to carry out development activities on our behalf as agreed and in accordance with our and the FDA's or other regulatory agencies' requirements and applicable U.S. and foreign laws, or our failure to properly coordinate and manage these activities, could increase the cost of our operations and delay or prevent the development, approval and commercialization of our drug candidates. For example, in June 2013, we learned from our data management vendor for BENEFIT-ALS that a programming error in the electronic data capture system controlling study drug assignment caused 58 patients initially randomized to and treated with tirasemtiv to receive placebo instead at a certain trial visit and for the remainder of the trial. In order to maintain the originally intended statistical power of the trial, we amended the protocol to permit enrollment of approximately 680 patients, or 180 patients in addition to the 500 patients allowed under the existing protocol. This protocol amendment resulted in additional costs and delays in conducting BENEFIT-ALS.. 24. Further, for the quarter ended September 30, 2016, we determined that there was an error in the accounting for the recognition of clinical research and development expenses related to the information received from one of our CROs, which resulted in a restatement of our clinical research and development expenses, related clinical accrual accounts and related financial disclosures as of and for the three and nine month periods ended September 30, 2016. In addition, if a CRO fails to perform as agreed, our ability to collect damages may be contractually limited. If we fail to effectively manage the CROs carrying out the development of our drug candidates or if our CROs fail to perform as agreed, the commercialization of our drug candidates will be delayed or prevented. In many cases, our CROs have the right to terminate their agreements with us in the event of an uncured material breach. Identifying, qualifying and managing performance of third-party service providers can be difficult, time consuming and cause delays in our development programs. In addition, there is a natural transition period when a new CRO commences work and the new CRO may not provide the same type or level of services as the original provider. If any of our relationships with our third-party CROs terminate, we may not be able to enter into arrangements with alternative CROs or to do so timely or on commercially reasonable terms.. We have no manufacturing capacity and depend on our strategic partners and contract manufacturers to produce our clinical trial materials, including our drug candidates, and anticipate continued reliance on contract manufacturers for the development and commercialization of our potential drugs.. We do not currently operate manufacturing facilities for clinical or commercial production of our drug candidates. We have limited experience in drug formulation and manufacturing, and we lack the resources and the capabilities to manufacture any of our drug candidates on a clinical or commercial scale. Amgen has assumed responsibility to conduct these activities for the ongoing development of omecamtiv mecarbil worldwide. Following our conduct of the early development of reldesemtiv, including the ongoing Phase 2 clinical trial in patients with SMA and ALS, Astellas will assume primary responsibility to conduct the manufacturing for the ongoing development of reldesemtiv worldwide. We expect to rely on contract manufacturers to supply all future drug candidates for which we conduct development, as well as other materials required to conduct our clinical trials. If any of our existing or future contract manufacturers fail to perform satisfactorily, it could delay development or regulatory approval of our drug candidates or commercialization of our drugs, producing additional losses and depriving us of potential product revenues. In addition, if a contract manufacturer fails to perform as agreed, our ability to collect damages may be contractually limited.. Our drug candidates require precise high-quality manufacturing. The failure to achieve and maintain high manufacturing standards, including failure to detect or control anticipated or unanticipated manufacturing errors or the frequent occurrence of such errors, could result in patient injury or death, discontinuance or delay of ongoing or planned clinical trials, delays or failures in product testing or delivery, cost overruns, product recalls or withdrawals and other problems that could seriously hurt our business. Contract drug manufacturers often encounter difficulties involving production yields, quality control and quality assurance and shortages of qualified personnel. These manufacturers are subject to stringent regulatory requirements, including the FDA's current good manufacturing practices regulations and similar foreign laws and standards. Each contract manufacturer must pass a pre-approval inspection before we can obtain marketing approval for any of our drug candidates and following approval will be subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA, the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency and other regulatory agencies, to ensure strict compliance with current good manufacturing practices and other applicable government regulations and corresponding foreign laws and standards. We seek to ensure that our contract manufacturers comply fully with all applicable regulations, laws and standards. However, we do not have control over our contract manufacturers' compliance with these regulations, laws and standards. If one of our contract manufacturers fails to pass its pre-approval inspection or maintain ongoing compliance at any time, the production of our drug candidates could be interrupted, resulting in delays or discontinuance of our clinical trials, additional costs and potentially lost revenues. In addition, failure of any third party manufacturers or us to comply with applicable regulations, including pre- or post-approval inspections and the current good manufacturing practice requirements of the FDA or other comparable regulatory agencies, could result in sanctions being imposed on us. These sanctions could include fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our products, delay, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, product seizures or recalls, operational restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect our business.. In addition, our existing and future contract manufacturers may not perform as agreed or may not remain in the contract manufacturing business for the time required to successfully produce, store and distribute our drug candidates. If a natural disaster, business failure, strike or other difficulty occurs, we may be unable to replace these contract manufacturers in a timely or cost-effective manner and the production of our drug candidates would be interrupted, resulting in delays and additional costs.. Switching manufacturers or manufacturing sites would be difficult and time-consuming because the number of potential manufacturers is limited. In addition, before a drug from any replacement manufacturer or manufacturing site can be commercialized, the FDA and, in some cases, foreign regulatory agencies, must approve that site. These approvals would require regulatory testing and compliance inspections. A new manufacturer or manufacturing site also would have to be educated in, or develop substantially equivalent processes for, production of our drugs and drug candidates. It may be difficult or impossible to transfer certain elements of a manufacturing process to a new manufacturer or for us to find a replacement manufacturer on acceptable terms quickly, or at all, either of which would delay or prevent our ability to develop drug candidates and commercialize any resulting drugs.. 25. We may not be able to successfully manufacture our drug candidates in sufficient quality and quantity, which would delay or prevent us from developing our drug candidates and commercializing resulting approved drugs, if any.. To date, our drug candidates have been manufactured in quantities adequate for preclinical studies and early through late-stage clinical trials. In order to conduct large scale clinical trials for a drug candidate and for commercialization of the resulting drug if that drug candidate is approved for sale, we will need to manufacture some drug candidates in larger quantities. We may not be able to successfully repeat or increase the manufacturing capacity for any of our drug candidates, whether in collaboration with third-party manufacturers or on our own, in a timely or cost-effective manner or at all. If a contract manufacturer makes improvements in the manufacturing process for our drug candidates, we may not own, or may have to share, the intellectual property rights to those improvements. Significant changes or scale-up of manufacturing may require additional validation studies, which are costly and which regulatory authorities must review and approve. In addition, quality issues may arise during those changes or scale-up activities because of the inherent properties of a drug candidate itself or of a drug candidate in combination with other components added during the manufacturing and packaging process, or during shipping and storage of the finished product or active pharmaceutical ingredients. If we are unable to successfully manufacture of any of our drug candidates in sufficient quality and quantity, the development of that drug candidate and regulatory approval or commercial launch for any resulting drugs may be delayed or there may be a shortage in supply, which could significantly harm our business. In addition, data demonstrating the stability of both drug substance and drug product, using the commercial manufacturing process and at commercial scale, are required for marketing applications. Failure to produce drug substance and drug products in a timely manner and obtain stability data could result in delay of submission of marketing applications.. The mechanisms of action of our drug candidates are unproven, and we do not know whether we will be able to develop any drug of commercial value.. We have discovered and are currently developing drug candidates that have what we believe are novel mechanisms of action directed against cytoskeletal targets, and intend to continue to do so. Because no currently approved drugs appear to operate via the same biochemical mechanisms as our compounds, we cannot be certain that our drug candidates will result in commercially viable drugs that safely and effectively treat the indications for which we intend to develop them. The results we have seen for our compounds in preclinical models may not translate into similar results in humans, and results of early clinical trials in humans may not be predictive of the results of larger clinical trials that may later be conducted with our drug candidates. Even if we are successful in developing and receiving regulatory approval for a drug candidate for the treatment of a particular disease, we cannot be certain that it will be accepted by prescribers or be reimbursed by insurers or that we will also be able to develop and receive regulatory approval for that or other drug candidates for the treatment of other diseases. If we or our partners are unable to successfully develop and commercialize our drug candidates, our business will be materially harmed.. Our success depends substantially upon our ability to obtain and maintain intellectual property protection relating to our drug candidates, compounds and research technologies.. We own, or hold exclusive licenses to, a number of U.S. and foreign patents and patent applications directed to our drug candidates, compounds and research technologies. Our success depends on our ability to obtain patent protection both in the United States and in other countries for our drug candidates, their methods of manufacture and use, and our technologies. Our ability to protect our drug candidates, compounds and technologies from unauthorized or infringing use by third parties depends substantially on our ability to obtain and enforce our patents. If our issued patents and patent applications, if granted, do not adequately describe, enable or otherwise provide coverage of our technologies and drug candidates, including reldesemtiv and omecamtiv mecarbil, we or our licensees would not be able to exclude others from developing or commercializing these drug candidates. Furthermore, the degree of future protection of our proprietary rights is uncertain because legal means may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage.. Due to evolving legal standards relating to the patentability, validity and enforceability of patents covering pharmaceutical inventions and the claim scope of these patents, our ability to enforce our existing patents and to obtain and enforce patents that may issue from any pending or future patent applications is uncertain and involves complex legal, scientific and factual questions. The standards which the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and its foreign counterparts use to grant patents are not always applied predictably or uniformly and are subject to change. To date, no consistent policy has emerged regarding the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology and pharmaceutical patents. Thus, we cannot be sure that any patents will issue from any pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to us. Even if patents do issue, we cannot be sure that the claims of these patents will be held valid or enforceable by a court of law, will provide us with any significant protection against competitive products, or will afford us a commercial advantage over competitive products. In particular:. •  we or our licensors might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications and issued patents;. 26. •  we or our licensors might not have been the first to file patent applications for the inventions covered by our pending patent applications and issued patents;. •  others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies without infringing our intellectual property rights;. •  some or all of our or our licensors' pending patent applications may not result in issued patents or the claims that issue may be narrow in scope and not provide us with competitive advantages;. •  our and our licensors' issued patents may not provide a basis for commercially viable drugs or therapies or may be challenged and invalidated by third parties;. •  our or our licensors' patent applications or patents may be subject to interference, opposition or similar administrative proceedings that may result in a reduction in their scope or their loss altogether;. •  we may not develop additional proprietary technologies or drug candidates that are patentable; or. •  the patents of others may prevent us or our partners from discovering, developing or commercializing our drug candidates.. Patent protection is afforded on a country-by-country basis. Some foreign jurisdictions do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as in the United States. Many companies have encountered significant difficulties in protecting and defending intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions. Some of our development efforts are performed in countries outside of the United States through third party contractors. We may not be able to effectively monitor and assess intellectual property developed by these contractors. We therefore may not be able to effectively protect this intellectual property and could lose potentially valuable intellectual property rights. In addition, the legal protection afforded to inventors and owners of intellectual property in countries outside of the United States may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as in the United States. Therefore, we may be unable to acquire and protect intellectual property developed by these contractors to the same extent as if these development activities were being conducted in the United States. If we encounter difficulties in protecting our intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions, our business prospects could be substantially harmed.. We rely on intellectual property assignment agreements with our corporate partners, employees, consultants, scientific advisors and other collaborators to grant us ownership of new intellectual property that is developed. These agreements may not result in the effective assignment to us of that intellectual property. As a result, our ownership of key intellectual property could be compromised.. Changes in either the patent laws or their interpretation in the United States or other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property or our ability to obtain patents. For example, the America Invents Act of 2011 may affect the scope, strength and enforceability of our patent rights in the United States or the nature of proceedings which may be brought by us related to our patent rights in the United States.. If one or more products resulting from our drug candidates is approved for sale by the FDA and we do not have adequate intellectual property protection for those products, competitors could duplicate them for approval and sale in the United States without repeating the extensive testing required of us or our partners to obtain FDA approval. Regardless of any patent protection, under current law, an application for a generic version of a new chemical entity cannot be approved until at least five years after the FDA has approved the original product. When that period expires, or if that period is altered, the FDA could approve a generic version of our product regardless of our patent protection. An applicant for a generic version of our product may only be required to conduct a relatively inexpensive study to show that its product is bioequivalent to our product, and may not have to repeat the lengthy and expensive clinical trials that we or our partners conducted to demonstrate that the product is safe and effective. In the absence of adequate patent protection for our products in other countries, competitors may similarly be able to obtain regulatory approval in those countries of generic versions of our products.. We also rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, particularly where we believe patent protection is not appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are often difficult to protect, especially outside of the United States. While we endeavor to use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our or our partners' employees, consultants, contractors or scientific and other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our information to competitors. In addition, confidentiality agreements, if any, executed by those individuals may not be enforceable or provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure. Pursuing a claim that a third party had illegally obtained and was using our trade secrets would be expensive and time-consuming, and the outcome would be unpredictable. Even if we are able to maintain our trade secrets as confidential, if our competitors independently develop information equivalent or similar to our trade secrets, our business could be harmed.. 27. If we are not able to defend the patent or trade secret protection position of our technologies and drug candidates, then we will not be able to exclude competitors from developing or marketing competing drugs, and we may not generate enough revenue from product sales to justify the cost of development of our drugs or to achieve or maintain profitability.. If we are sued for infringing third party intellectual property rights, it will be costly and time-consuming, and an unfavorable outcome could have a significant adverse effect on our business.. Our ability to commercialize drugs depends on our ability to use, manufacture and sell those drugs without infringing the patents or other proprietary rights of third parties. Numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications owned by third parties exist in the therapeutic areas in which we are developing drug candidates and seeking new potential drug candidates. In addition, because patent applications can take several years to issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, which could later result in issued patents that our activities with our drug candidates could infringe. There may also be existing patents, unknown to us, that our activities with our drug candidates could infringe.. Other future products of ours may be impacted by patents of companies engaged in competitive programs with significantly greater resources. Further development of these products could be impacted by these patents and result in significant legal fees.. If a third party claims that our actions infringe its patents or other proprietary rights, we could face a number of issues that could seriously harm our competitive position, including, but not limited to:. •  infringement and other intellectual property claims that, even if meritless, can be costly and time-consuming to litigate, delay the regulatory approval process and divert management's attention from our core business operations;. •  substantial damages for past infringement which we may have to pay if a court determines that our drugs or technologies infringe a third party's patent or other proprietary rights;. •  a court prohibiting us from selling or licensing our drugs or technologies unless the holder licenses the patent or other proprietary rights to us, which it is not required to do; and. •  if a license is available from a holder, we may have to pay substantial royalties or grant cross-licenses to our patents or other proprietary rights.. If any of these events occur, it could significantly harm our business and negatively affect our stock price.. We may undertake infringement or other legal proceedings against third parties, causing us to spend substantial resources on litigation and exposing our own intellectual property portfolio to challenge.. Third parties may infringe our patents. To prevent infringement or unauthorized use, we may need to file infringement suits, which are expensive and time-consuming. In an infringement proceeding, a court may decide that one or more of our patents is invalid, unenforceable, or both. In this case, third parties may be able to use our technology without paying licensing fees or royalties. Even if the validity of our patents is upheld, a court may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the ground that the other party's activities are not covered by our patents. Policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult, and we may not be able to prevent misappropriation of our proprietary rights, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect such rights as fully as in the United States. In addition, third parties may affirmatively challenge our rights to, or the scope or validity of, our patent rights.. We may become involved in disputes with our strategic partners over intellectual property ownership, and publications by our research collaborators and clinical investigators could impair our ability to obtain patent protection or protect our proprietary information, either of which would have a significant impact on our business.. Inventions discovered under our current or future strategic alliance agreements may become jointly owned by our strategic partners and us in some cases, and the exclusive property of one of us in other cases. Under some circumstances, it may be difficult to determine who owns a particular invention or whether it is jointly owned, and disputes could arise regarding ownership or use of those inventions. These disputes could be costly and time-consuming, and an unfavorable outcome could have a significant adverse effect on our business if we were not able to protect or license rights to these inventions. In addition, our research collaborators and clinical investigators generally have contractual rights to publish data arising from their work. Publications by our research collaborators and clinical investigators relating to our research and development programs, either with or without our consent, could benefit our current or potential competitors and may impair our ability to obtain patent protection or protect our proprietary information, which could significantly harm our business.. 28. We may be subject to claims that we or our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed trade secrets of their former employers.. Many of our employees were previously employed at universities or other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that these employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. If we fail in defending these claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. A loss of key research personnel or their work product could hamper or prevent our ability to develop and commercialize certain potential drugs, which could significantly harm our business. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and distract management.. Our competitors may develop drugs that are less expensive, safer or more effective than ours, which may diminish or eliminate the commercial success of any drugs that we may commercialize.. We compete with companies that have developed drugs or are developing drug candidates for cardiovascular diseases, diseases and conditions associated with muscle weakness or wasting and other diseases for which our drug candidates may be useful treatments. For example, if reldesemtiv is approved for marketing by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for the treatment of ALS, it may then compete with other potential new therapies for ALS that are currently being developed by companies including, but not limited to, Neuraltus Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Ionis Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (in collaboration with Biogen Inc.), AB Science, Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation and Treeway, Genentech, Inc., and BrainStorm Cell Therapeutics.  In addition, in May 2017, the FDA approved Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma America, Inc.'s RADICAVAtm (edaravone), a free radical scavenger, as an intravenous infusion treatment for ALS, which was the first FDA approved drug for the treatment of ALS since riluzole in 1995. If reldesemtiv is approved by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for the treatment of SMA, potential competitors include, but are not limited to, Roche (in collaboration with PTC Therapeutics and Trophos SA), AveXis, Inc., and Ionis Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (in collaboration with Biogen Inc.). If reldesemtiv is approved by the FDA for the potential treatment of non-neuromuscular indications associated with muscle weakness, potential competitors include, but are not limited to, Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (in collaboration with Sanofi), Eli Lilly and Company, Acceleron Pharma, Stealth Biotherapeutics, and Novartis (in collaboration with Morphosys AG). In addition, in December 2016, the FDA approved SPINRAZA® (nusinersen), a survival motor neuron-2 (SMN2)-directed antisense oligonucleotide indicated for the treatment of SMA in pediatric and adult patients. SPINRAZA is the first FDA approved drug for the treatment of SMA. Biogen Inc. licensed the global rights to develop, manufacture and commercialize SPINRAZA from Ionis Pharmaceuticals, Inc.. If omecamtiv mecarbil is approved for marketing by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for the treatment of heart failure, it would compete against other drugs used for the treatment of acute and chronic heart failure. These include generic drugs, such as milrinone, dobutamine or digoxin and branded drugs such as Natrecor® (nesiritide), Corlanor® (ivabradine), and Entresto® (sacubitril/valsartan). Omecamtiv mecarbil could also potentially compete against other novel drug candidates and therapies in development, such as those being developed by, but not limited to, Novartis; Bayer; Stealth Biotherapeutics; and MyoKardia. In addition, there are a number of medical devices both marketed and in development for the potential treatment of heart failure.. Our competitors may:. •  develop drug candidates and market drugs that are less expensive or more effective than our future drugs;. •  commercialize competing drugs before we or our partners can launch any drugs developed from our drug candidates;. •  hold or obtain proprietary rights that could prevent us from commercializing our products;. •  initiate or withstand substantial price competition more successfully than we can;. •  more successfully recruit skilled scientific workers and management from the limited pool of available talent;. •  more effectively negotiate third-party licenses and strategic alliances;. •  take advantage of acquisition or other opportunities more readily than we can;. •  develop drug candidates and market drugs that increase the levels of safety or efficacy that our drug candidates will need to show in order to obtain regulatory approval; or. •  introduce therapies or market drugs that render the market opportunity for our potential drugs obsolete.. 29. We will compete for market share against large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and smaller companies that are collaborating with larger pharmaceutical companies, new companies, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations. Many of these competitors, either alone or together with their partners, may develop new drug candidates that will compete with ours. Many of these competitors have larger research and development programs or substantially greater financial resources than we do. Our competitors may also have significantly greater experience in:. •  developing drug candidates;. •  undertaking preclinical testing and clinical trials;. •  building relationships with key customers and opinion-leading physicians;. •  obtaining and maintaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of drug candidates;. •  formulating and manufacturing drugs; and. •  launching, marketing and selling drugs.. If our competitors market drugs that are less expensive, safer or more efficacious than our potential drugs, or that reach the market sooner than our potential drugs, we may not achieve commercial success. In addition, the life sciences industry is characterized by rapid technological change. If we fail to stay at the forefront of technological change, we may be unable to compete effectively. Our competitors may render our technologies obsolete by improving existing technological approaches or developing new or different approaches, potentially eliminating the advantages in our drug discovery process that we believe we derive from our research approach and proprietary technologies.. We have been granted orphan designations in the U.S. for reldesemtiv; however, there can be no guarantee that we will receive orphan approval for reldesemtiv, nor that we will be able to prevent third parties from developing and commercializing products that are competitive to reldesemtiv.. We have been granted orphan drug designation in the U.S. by the FDA for reldesemtiv for the potential treatment of SMA. In the U.S., upon approval from the FDA of an NDA, products granted orphan drug approval are generally provided with seven years of marketing exclusivity in the U.S., meaning the FDA will generally not approve applications for other product candidates for the same orphan indication that contain the same active ingredient. Even if we are the first to obtain approval of an orphan product and are granted exclusivity in the U.S., there are limited circumstances under which a later competitor product may be approved for the same indication during the seven-year period of marketing exclusivity, such as if the later product is shown to be clinically superior to our product or due to an inability to assure a sufficient quantity of the orphan drug.. Orphan medicinal product status in Europe Union can provide up to 10 years of marketing exclusivity, meaning that another application for marketing authorization of a later similar medicinal product for the same therapeutic indication will generally not be approved in the European Union. Although we may have drug candidates that may obtain orphan drug exclusivity in Europe, the orphan approval and associated exclusivity period may be modified for several reasons, including a significant change to the orphan medicinal product designations or approval criteria after-market authorization of the orphan product (e.g., product profitability exceeds the criteria for orphan drug designation), problems with the production or supply of the orphan drug or a competitor drug, although similar, is safer, more effective or otherwise clinically superior than the initial orphan drug.. We are not guaranteed to maintain orphan status for reldesemtiv or to receive orphan status for reldesemtiv for any other indication or for any of our other drug candidates for any indication. If our drug candidates that are granted orphan status were to lose their status as orphan drugs or the marketing exclusivity provided for them in the U.S. or the European Union, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. While orphan status for any of our products, if granted or maintained, would provide market exclusivity in the U.S. and the European Union for the time periods specified above, we would not be able to exclude other companies from manufacturing and/or selling products using the same active ingredient for the same indication beyond the exclusivity period applicable to our product on the basis of orphan drug status. Moreover, we cannot guarantee that another company will not receive approval before we do of an orphan drug application in the U.S. or the European Union for a product candidate that has the same active ingredient or is a similar medicinal product for the same indication as any of our drug candidates for which we plan to file for orphan designation and status. If that were to happen, our orphan drug applications for our drug candidate for that indication may not be approved until the competing company's period of exclusivity has expired in the U.S. or the European Union, as applicable. Further, application of the orphan drug regulations in the U.S. and Europe is uncertain, and we cannot predict how the respective regulatory bodies will interpret and apply the regulations to our or our competitors' products.. 30. Our failure to attract and retain skilled personnel could impair our drug development and commercialization activities.. Our business depends on the performance of our senior management and key scientific and technical personnel. The loss of the services of any member of our senior management or key scientific or technical staff may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of drug development and other business objectives by diverting management's attention to transition matters and identifying suitable replacements. We also rely on consultants and advisors to assist us in formulating our research and development strategy. All of our consultants and advisors are either self-employed or employed by other organizations, and they may have conflicts of interest or other commitments, such as consulting or advisory contracts with other organizations, that may affect their ability to contribute to us. In addition, if and as our business grows, we will need to recruit additional executive management and scientific and technical personnel. There is intense competition for skilled executives and employees with relevant scientific and technical expertise, and this competition is likely to continue. Our inability to attract and retain sufficient scientific, technical and managerial personnel could limit or delay our product development activities, which would adversely affect the development of our drug candidates and commercialization of our potential drugs and growth of our business.. Any future workforce and expense reductions may have an adverse impact on our internal programs and our ability to hire and retain skilled personnel.. Our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. In light of our continued need for funding and cost control, we may be required to implement future workforce and expense reductions, which could further limit our research and development activities. For example, in October 2011, we reduced our workforce by approximately 18% in order to reduce expenses and to focus resources primarily on our later-stage development programs for tirasemtiv and omecamtiv mecarbil and certain other research and development programs also directed to muscle biology. These headcount reductions and the cost control measures we have implemented may negatively affect our productivity and limit our research and development activities. We may have difficulty retaining and attracting such personnel as a result of a perceived risk of future workforce reductions. In addition, the implementation of any additional workforce or expense reduction programs may divert the efforts of our management team and other key employees, which could adversely affect our business.. We may expand our development and clinical research capabilities and, as a result, we may encounter difficulties in managing our growth, which could disrupt our operations.. We may have growth in our expenditures, the number of our employees and the scope of our operations, in particular with respect to those drug candidates that we elect to develop or commercialize independently or together with a partner. To manage our anticipated future growth, we must continue to implement and improve our managerial, operational and financial systems, expand our facilities and continue to recruit and train additional qualified personnel. Due to our limited resources, we may not be able to effectively manage the expansion of our operations or recruit and train additional qualified personnel. The physical expansion of our operations may lead to significant costs and may divert our management and business development resources. Any inability to manage growth could delay the execution of our business plans or disrupt our operations.. We currently have no sales or marketing capabilities and, if we are unable to enter into or maintain strategic alliances with marketing partners or to develop our own sales and marketing capabilities, we may not be successful in commercializing our potential drugs.. We currently have no sales, marketing or distribution capabilities. We plan to commercialize drugs that can be effectively marketed and sold in concentrated markets that do not require a large sales force to be competitive. To achieve this goal, we will need to establish our own specialized sales force and marketing organization with technical expertise and supporting distribution capabilities. Developing such an organization is expensive and time-consuming and could delay a product launch. In addition, we may not be able to develop this capacity efficiently, cost-effectively or at all, which could make us unable to commercialize our drugs. If we determine not to market our drugs on our own, we will depend on strategic alliances with third parties, such as Amgen and Astellas, which have established distribution systems and direct sales forces to commercialize them. If we are unable to enter into such arrangements on acceptable terms, we may not be able to successfully commercialize these drugs. To the extent that we are not successful in commercializing any drugs ourselves or through a strategic alliance, our product revenues and business will suffer and our stock price would decrease.. Our internal computer systems, or those of our CROs, CMOs, supply chain partners, collaboration partners or other contractors or consultants, may fail or suffer security breaches, which could result in a material disruption of our drug development programs.. Despite the implementation of security measures, our internal computer systems and those of our CROs, CMOs, supply chain partners, collaboration partners and other contractors and consultants are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication and electrical failures. While we have not experienced any such system failure, accident or security breach to date, if such an event were to occur and cause interruptions in our operations, it could result in a. 31. material disruption of our drug development programs. For example, the loss of clinical study data from completed or ongoing clinical studies for any of our drug candidates could result in delays in our regulatory approval efforts and significantly increase our costs to recover or reproduce the data. To the extent that any disruption or security breach were to result in a loss of or damage to our data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we could incur liability and the further development of our product candidates could be delayed.. We are obligated to develop and maintain proper and effective internal control over financial reporting. In the future, we may not complete our execution of our internal control over financial reporting in a timely manner, or these internal controls may not be determined to be effective, which may result in additional material misstatements in our consolidated financial statements and may adversely affect investor confidence in our company and, as a result, the value of our common stock.. We are required, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, to furnish a report by management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting.. Complying with Section 404 requires a rigorous compliance program as well as adequate time and resources. We may not be able to complete our internal control evaluation, testing and any required remediation in a timely fashion. Additionally, if we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will not be able to assert that our internal controls are effective. For example, our management concluded that our internal controls over financial reporting were not effective as of September 30, 2016, because a material weakness existed in our internal control over financial reporting related to research and development expenses associated with the review of clinical trial expenses incurred under our clinical research organization trial agreements, including in part, our review of information received from third party service providers that is used in the operation of this control. Even though we remediated this material weakness as of December 31, 2016, if other material weaknesses are identified in the future or we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, our reported financial results could be materially misstated, we would receive an adverse opinion regarding our internal controls over financial reporting from our independent registered public accounting firm, and we could be subject to investigations or sanctions by regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources, and the value of our common stock could decline. In addition, because we concluded that our internal control over financial reporting were not effective as of September 30, 2016, and to the extent we identify future weaknesses or deficiencies, there could be material misstatements in our consolidated financial statements and we could fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. As a result, our ability to obtain additional financing, or obtain additional financing on favorable terms, could be materially and adversely affected which, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our business, our financial condition and the value of our common stock. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective in the future, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion or expresses an adverse opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls in the future, investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports could be further eroded, which would have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock.. Significant disruptions of information technology systems or breaches of data security could adversely affect our business.. Our business is increasingly dependent on complex and interdependent information technology systems, including internet-based systems, databases and programs, to support our business processes as well as internal and external communications. As use of information technology systems has increased, deliberate attacks and attempts to gain unauthorized access to computer systems and networks have increased in frequency and sophistication. Our information technology, systems and networks are potentially vulnerable to breakdown, malicious intrusion and computer viruses which may result in the impairment of production and key business processes or loss of data or information. We are also potentially vulnerable to data security breaches - whether by employees or others - which may expose sensitive data to unauthorized persons. We have in the past and may in the future be subject to security breaches. For example, in February 2018, we discovered that our e-mail server suffered unauthorized intrusions in which proprietary business information was accessed. Although we do not believe that we have experienced any material losses related to security breaches, including recent cybersecurity incidents, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future.  Breaches and other inappropriate access can be difficult to detect and any delay in identifying them could increase their harm. While we have implemented security measures to protect our data security and information technology systems, such measures may not prevent such events. Any such breaches of security and inappropriate access could disrupt our operations, harm our reputation or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 32. Our reported financial results may be adversely affected by changes in accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S.. We prepare our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\") and the SEC. A change in these policies or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results, may retroactively affect previously reported results, could cause unexpected financial reporting fluctuations, and may require us to make costly changes to our operational processes and accounting systems.. Our revenue to date has been primarily derived from our research and license agreements, which can result in significant fluctuation in our revenue from period to period, and our past revenue is therefore not necessarily indicative of our future revenue.. Our revenue is primarily derived from our research and license agreements, from which we receive upfront fees, contract research payments, milestone and other contingent payments based on clinical progress, regulatory progress or net sales achievements and royalties. Significant variations in the timing of receipt of cash payments and our recognition of revenue can result from significant payments based on the execution of new research and license agreements, the timing of clinical outcomes, regulatory approval, commercial launch or the achievement of certain annual sales thresholds. The amount of our revenue derived from research and license agreements in any given period will depend on a number of unpredictable factors, including our ability to find and maintain suitable collaboration partners, the timing of the negotiation and conclusion of collaboration agreements with such partners, whether and when we or our collaboration partners achieve clinical, regulatory and sales milestones, the timing of regulatory approvals in one or more major markets, reimbursement levels by private and government payers, and the market introduction of new drugs or generic versions of the approved drug, as well as other factors. The application of ASC 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which applies beginning in the first quarter of 2018, may have a material impact on revenue recognition under our research and license agreements. Our past revenue generated from these agreements is not necessarily indicative of our future revenue. If any of our existing or future collaboration partners fails to develop, obtain regulatory approval for, manufacture or ultimately commercialize any product candidate under our collaboration agreement, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. Risks Related To Our Industry. The regulatory approval process is expensive, time-consuming and uncertain and may prevent our partners or us from obtaining approvals to commercialize some or all of our drug candidates.. The research, testing, manufacturing, selling and marketing of drugs are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory authorities in the United States and other countries, and regulations differ from country to country. Neither we nor our partners are permitted to market our potential drugs in the United States until we receive approval of a new drug application (\"NDA\") from the FDA. Neither we nor our partners have received NDA or other marketing approval for any of our drug candidates.. Obtaining NDA approval is a lengthy, expensive and uncertain process. In addition, failure to comply with FDA and other applicable foreign and U.S. regulatory requirements may subject us to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions. These include warning letters, civil and criminal penalties, injunctions, product seizure or detention, product recalls, total or partial suspension of production, and refusal to approve pending NDAs or supplements to approved NDAs.. Regulatory approval of an NDA or NDA supplement is never guaranteed, and the approval process typically takes several years and is extremely expensive. The FDA and foreign regulatory agencies also have substantial discretion in the drug approval process, and the guidance and advice issued by such agencies is subject to change at any time. Despite the time and efforts exerted, failure can occur at any stage, and we may encounter problems that cause us to abandon clinical trials or to repeat or perform additional preclinical testing and clinical trials. The number and focus of preclinical studies and clinical trials that will be required for approval by the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies varies depending on the drug candidate, the disease or condition that the drug candidate is designed to address, and the regulations applicable to any particular drug candidate. In addition, the FDA may require that a proposed Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (\"REMS\") be submitted as part of an NDA if the FDA determines that it is necessary to ensure that the benefits of the drug outweigh its risks. The FDA and foreign regulatory agencies can delay, limit or deny approval of a drug candidate for many reasons, including, but not limited to:. •  they might determine that a drug candidate is not safe or effective;. •  they might not find the data from nonclinical testing and clinical trials sufficient and could request that additional trials be performed;. •  they might not approve our, our partner's or the contract manufacturer's processes or facilities; or. •  they might change their approval policies or adopt new regulations.. 33. Even if we receive regulatory approval to manufacture and sell a drug in a particular regulatory jurisdiction, other jurisdictions' regulatory authorities may not approve that drug for manufacture and sale. If we or our partners fail to receive and maintain regulatory approval for the sale of any drugs resulting from our drug candidates, it would significantly harm our business and negatively affect our stock price.. If we or our partners receive regulatory approval for our drug candidates, we or they will be subject to ongoing obligations to and continued regulatory review by the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies, and may be subject to additional post-marketing obligations, all of which may result in significant expense and limit commercialization of our potential drugs.. Any regulatory approvals that we or our partners receive for our drug candidates may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the drug may be marketed or require potentially costly post-marketing follow-up studies or compliance with a REMS. In addition, if the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies approves any of our drug candidates, the labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and record-keeping for the drug will be subject to extensive regulatory requirements. The subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with the drug, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or the discovery that adverse events or toxicities observed in preclinical research or clinical trials that were believed to be minor actually constitute much more serious problems, may result in restrictions on the marketing of the drug or withdrawal of the drug from the market.. The FDA and foreign regulatory agencies may change their policies and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our drug candidates. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of adverse government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. If we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we might not be permitted to market our drugs and our business would suffer.. If physicians and patients do not accept our drugs, we may be unable to generate significant revenue, if any.. Even if our drug candidates obtain regulatory approval, the resulting drugs, if any, may not gain market acceptance among physicians, healthcare payors, patients and the medical community. Even if the clinical safety and efficacy of drugs developed from our drug candidates are established for purposes of approval, physicians may elect not to recommend these drugs for a variety of reasons including, but not limited to:. •  introduction of competitive drugs to the market;. •  clinical safety and efficacy of alternative drugs or treatments;. •  cost-effectiveness;. •  availability of coverage and reimbursement from health maintenance organizations and other third-party payors;. •  convenience and ease of administration;. •  prevalence and severity of adverse events;. •  other potential disadvantages relative to alternative treatment methods; or. •  insufficient marketing and distribution support.. If our drugs fail to achieve market acceptance, we may not be able to generate significant revenue and our business would suffer.. Recently enacted and future legislation, including potentially unfavorable pricing regulations or other healthcare reform initiatives, may increase the difficulty and cost for us to obtain regulatory approval of and commercialize our product candidates and affect the prices we may obtain.. The regulations that govern, among other things, regulatory approvals, coverage, pricing and reimbursement for new drug products vary widely from country to country. In the United States and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory changes and proposed changes regarding the healthcare system that could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our product candidates, restrict or regulate post-approval activities and affect our ability to successfully sell any product candidates for which we obtain regulatory approval. In particular, in March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, collectively, the Affordable Care Act, was enacted, which substantially changes the way health care is financed by both governmental and private insurers, and significantly impacts the U.S. pharmaceutical industry.  The Affordable Care Act and its implementing regulations, among other things, addressed a new methodology by which rebates owed by manufacturers under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program are calculated for certain drugs and biologics, including our product candidates, that are inhaled, infused, instilled, implanted or injected, increased the minimum Medicaid rebates owed by manufacturers under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, extended the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program to utilization of prescriptions of individuals enrolled in Medicaid. 34. managed care organizations, subjected manufacturers to new annual fees and taxes for certain branded prescription drugs, provided incentives to programs that increase the federal government's comparative effectiveness research and established a new Medicare Part D coverage gap discount program, in which manufacturers must agree to offer 50% point-of-sale discounts off negotiated prices of applicable brand drugs to eligible beneficiaries during their coverage gap period, as a condition for the manufacturer's outpatient drugs to be covered under Medicare Part D.. Other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted in the United States since the Affordable Care Act was enacted. In August 2011, the Budget Control Act of 2011, among other things, created measures for spending reductions by Congress. A Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, tasked with recommending a targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, was unable to reach required goals, thereby triggering the legislation's automatic reduction to several government programs. This includes aggregate reductions of Medicare payments to providers of 2% per fiscal year, which went into effect in April 2013, and will remain in effect through 2025 unless additional Congressional action is taken. In January 2013, President Obama signed into law the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, or the ATRA, which, among other things, further reduced Medicare payments to several providers, including hospitals and cancer treatment centers, and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years.. There have been, and likely will continue to be, legislative and regulatory proposals at the foreign, federal and state levels directed at broadening the availability of healthcare and containing or lowering the cost of healthcare. We cannot predict the initiatives that may be adopted in the future. The continuing efforts of the government, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors of healthcare services to contain or reduce costs of healthcare and/or impose price controls may adversely affect:. •  the demand for our product candidates, if we obtain regulatory approval;. •  our ability to set a price that we believe is fair for our products;. •  our ability to generate revenue and achieve or maintain profitability;. •  the level of taxes that we are required to pay; and. •  the availability of capital.. Any reduction in reimbursement from Medicare or other government programs may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payors, which may adversely affect our future profitability.. Since its enactment, there have been judicial and Congressional challenges to numerous provisions of the Affordable Care Act, as well as recent efforts by the Trump administration to repeal or replace certain aspects of the Affordable Care Act.  Since January 2017, President Trump has signed two Executive Orders designed to delay the implementation of certain provisions of the Affordable Care Act or otherwise circumvent some of the requirements for health insurance mandated by the Affordable Care Act. Concurrently, Congress has considered legislation that would repeal or repeal and replace all or part of the Affordable Care Act. While Congress has not passed comprehensive repeal legislation, two bills affecting the implementation of certain taxes under the Affordable Care Act have been enacted. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 includes a provision repealing, effective January 1, 2019, the tax-based shared responsibility payment imposed by the Affordable Care Act on certain individuals who fail to maintain qualifying health coverage for all or part of a year that is commonly referred to as the \"individual mandate\". Additionally, on January 22, 2018, President Trump signed a continuing resolution on appropriations for fiscal year 2018 that delayed the implementation of certain mandated fees under the Affordable Care Act, including the so-called \"Cadillac\" tax on certain high cost employer-sponsored insurance plans, the annual fee imposed on certain health insurance providers based on market share, and the medical device excise tax on non-exempt medical devices. Congress may consider other legislation to repeal and replace elements of the Affordable Care Act. Any repeal and replace legislation may have the effect of limiting the amounts that government agencies will pay for healthcare products and services, which could result in reduced demand for our products or additional pricing pressure, or may lead to significant deregulation, which could make the introduction of competing products and technologies much easier. Policy changes, including potential modification or repeal of all or parts of the Affordable Care Act or the implementation of new health care legislation could result in significant changes to the health care system, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Legislative and regulatory proposals have been made to expand post-approval requirements and restrict sales and promotional activities for pharmaceutical products. We cannot be sure whether additional legislative changes will be enacted, or whether the FDA regulations, guidance or interpretations will be changed, or what the impact of such changes on the regulatory approvals of our product candidates, if any, may be.. In the United States, the European Union and other potentially significant markets for our product candidates, government authorities and third-party payors are increasingly attempting to limit or regulate the price of medical products and services, particularly for new and innovative products and therapies, which has resulted in lower average selling prices. For example, in the United States, there have been several recent Congressional inquiries and proposed bills designed to, among other things, bring more transparency to. 35. drug pricing, review the relationship between pricing and manufacturer patient programs, and reform government program reimbursement methodologies for drugs. Further, Congress and the Trump administration have each indicated that it will continue to seek new legislative and/or administrative measures to control drug costs. At the state level, legislatures have increasingly passed legislation and implemented regulations designed to control pharmaceutical and biological product pricing, including price or patient reimbursement constraints, discounts, restrictions on certain product access and marketing cost disclosure and transparency measures, and, in some cases, to encourage importation from other countries and bulk purchasing. Furthermore, the increased emphasis on managed healthcare in the United States and on country and regional pricing and reimbursement controls in the European Union will put additional pressure on product pricing, reimbursement and usage, which may adversely affect our future product sales and results of operations. These pressures can arise from rules and practices of managed care groups, judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to Medicare, Medicaid and healthcare reform, pharmaceutical reimbursement policies and pricing in general.. We may be subject to costly product liability or other liability claims and may not be able to obtain adequate insurance.. The use of our drug candidates in clinical trials may result in adverse events. We cannot predict all the possible harms or adverse events that may result from our clinical trials. We currently maintain limited product liability insurance. We may not have sufficient resources to pay for any liabilities resulting from a personal injury or other claim excluded from, or beyond the limit of, our insurance coverage. Our insurance does not cover third parties' negligence or malpractice, and our clinical investigators and sites may have inadequate insurance or none at all. In addition, in order to conduct clinical trials or otherwise carry out our business, we may have to contractually assume liabilities for which we may not be insured. If we are unable to look to our own or a third party's insurance to pay claims against us, we may have to pay any arising costs and damages ourselves, which may be substantial.. In addition, if we commercially launch drugs based on our drug candidates, we will face even greater exposure to product liability claims. This risk exists even with respect to those drugs that are approved for commercial sale by the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies and manufactured in licensed and regulated facilities. We intend to secure additional limited product liability insurance coverage for drugs that we commercialize, but may not be able to obtain such insurance on acceptable terms with adequate coverage, or at reasonable costs. Even if we are ultimately successful in product liability litigation, the litigation would consume substantial amounts of our financial and managerial resources and may create adverse publicity, all of which would impair our ability to generate sales of the affected product and our other potential drugs. Moreover, product recalls may be issued at our discretion or at the direction of the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies, other governmental agencies or other companies having regulatory control for drug sales. Product recalls are generally expensive and often have an adverse effect on the reputation of the drugs being recalled and of the drug's developer or manufacturer.. We may be required to indemnify third parties against damages and other liabilities arising out of our development, commercialization and other business activities, which could be costly and time-consuming and distract management. If third parties that have agreed to indemnify us against damages and other liabilities arising from their activities do not fulfill their obligations, then we may be held responsible for those damages and other liabilities.. Our relationships with customers, healthcare providers, clinical trial sites and professionals and third-party payors will be subject to applicable anti-kickback, fraud and abuse and other laws and regulations, which could expose us to criminal sanctions, civil penalties, contractual damages, reputational harm and diminished profits and future earnings.. Healthcare providers, physicians and third-party payors play a primary role in the recommendation and prescription of any drug candidates for which we may obtain marketing approval. Our arrangements with customers, healthcare providers and professionals and third-party payors may expose us to broadly applicable fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations that may constrain the business or financial arrangements and relationships through which we develop, and may market, sell and distribute, our products for which we obtain marketing approval. Restrictions under applicable federal and state healthcare laws and regulations, include, but are not limited to, the following:. •  The federal healthcare anti-kickback statute prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce or reward either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service, for which payment may be made under federally funded healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. This statute has been broadly interpreted to apply to manufacturer arrangements with prescribers, purchasers and formulary managers, among others. Several other countries, including the United Kingdom, have enacted similar anti-kickback, fraud and abuse, and healthcare laws and regulations.. •  The federal False Claims Act imposes civil penalties, including civil whistleblower or qui tam actions, against individuals or entities for knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, to the federal government, claims for payment that are false or fraudulent or making a false statement to avoid, decrease or conceal an obligation to pay money to the federal government. The government and qui tam relators have brought False Claims Act actions against pharmaceutical companies on the theory. 36. that their practices have caused false claims to be submitted to the government. There is also a separate false claims provision imposing criminal penalties.. •  The federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, imposes criminal and civil liability for executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program. HIPAA also imposes obligations, including mandatory contractual terms, with respect to safeguarding the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information. HIPAA also imposes criminal liability for knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services.. •  The federal Physician Payments Sunshine Act requires manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies to report to the Department of Health and Human Services information related to payments and other transfers of value made to or at the request of covered recipients, such as physicians and teaching hospitals, and physician ownership and investment interests in such manufacturers. Payments made to physicians and research institutions for clinical trials are included within the ambit of this law.. •  Analogous state laws and regulations, such as state anti-kickback and false claims laws, may apply to sales or marketing arrangements and claims involving healthcare items or services reimbursed by non-governmental third-party payors, including private insurers, and some state laws require pharmaceutical companies to comply with the pharmaceutical industry's voluntary compliance guidelines and the relevant compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government in addition to requiring drug manufacturers to report information related to payments to physicians and other health care providers or marketing expenditures.. Efforts to ensure that our business arrangements with third parties will comply with applicable healthcare laws and regulations will involve substantial costs. It is possible that governmental authorities will conclude that our business practices may not comply with current or future statutes, regulations or case law involving applicable fraud and abuse or other healthcare laws and regulations. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of these laws or any other governmental regulations that may apply to us, we may be subject to significant civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from government funded healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Exclusion, suspension and debarment from government funded healthcare programs would significantly impact our ability to commercialize, sell or distribute any drug. If any of the physicians or other providers or entities with whom we expect to do business are found to be not in compliance with applicable laws, they may be subject to criminal, civil or administrative sanctions, including exclusions from government funded healthcare programs.. In addition, health care providers in the United States, including research institutions from which we or our partners obtain patient information, are subject to privacy rules under HIPAA and state and local privacy laws. In the European Union, these entities are subject to the Directive 95/46-EC of the European Parliament on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and individual European Union member states implementing additional legislation. Other countries have similar privacy legislation. We could face substantial penalties if we knowingly receive individually identifiable health information from a health care provider that has not satisfied the applicable privacy laws. In addition, certain privacy laws and genetic testing laws may apply directly to our operations and/or those of our partners and may impose restrictions on the use and dissemination of individuals' health information and use of biological samples.. Responding to any claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of the hazardous chemicals and radioactive and biological materials we use in our business could be time-consuming and costly.. Our research and development processes involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, including chemicals and radioactive and biological materials. Our operations produce hazardous waste products. We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge and any resultant injury from those materials. Federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials. We may be sued for any injury or contamination that results from our or third parties' use of these materials. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations is expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development and production activities.. Our facilities in California are located near an earthquake fault, and an earthquake or other types of natural disasters, catastrophic events or resource shortages could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our results.. All of our facilities and our important documents and records, such as hard and electronic copies of our laboratory books and records for our drug candidates and compounds and our electronic business records, are located in our corporate headquarters at a single location in South San Francisco, California near active earthquake zones. If a natural disaster, such as an earthquake, fire or flood, a catastrophic event such as a disease pandemic or terrorist attack, or a localized extended outage of critical utilities or transportation systems occurs, we could experience a significant business interruption. Our partners and other third parties on which we rely may also. 37. be subject to business interruptions from such events. In addition, California from time to time has experienced shortages of water, electric power and natural gas. Future shortages and conservation measures could disrupt our operations and cause expense, thus adversely affecting our business and financial results.. Risks Related To an Investment in Our Securities. We expect that our stock price will fluctuate significantly, and you may not be able to resell your shares at or at or above your investment price.. The stock market, particularly in recent years, has experienced significant volatility, particularly with respect to pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other life sciences company stocks, which often does not relate to the operating performance of the companies represented by the stock. Factors that could cause volatility in the market price of our common stock include, but are not limited to:. •  announcements concerning any of the clinical trials for our drug candidates, such as reldesemtiv for the potential treatment of SMA, COPD, limited mobility, ALS or other indications associated with muscle weakness and omecamtiv mecarbil for the potential treatment of heart failure (including, but not limited to, the timing of initiation or completion of such trials and the results of such trials, and delays or discontinuations of such trials, including delays resulting from slower than expected or suspended patient enrollment or discontinuations resulting from a failure to meet pre-defined clinical end points);. •  announcements concerning our strategic alliance with Amgen or Astellas or future strategic alliances;. •  failure or delays in entering additional drug candidates into clinical trials;. •  failure or discontinuation of any of our research programs;. •  issuance of new or changed securities analysts' reports or recommendations;. •  failure or delay in establishing new strategic alliances, or the terms of those alliances;. •  market conditions in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other healthcare-related sectors;. •  actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly financial and operating results;. •  developments or disputes concerning our intellectual property or other proprietary rights;. •  introduction of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors;. •  issues in manufacturing, packaging, labeling and distribution of our drug candidates or drugs;. •  market acceptance of our drugs;. •  third-party healthcare coverage and reimbursement policies;. •  FDA or other U.S. or foreign regulatory actions affecting us or our industry;. •  litigation or public concern about the safety of our drug candidates or drugs;. •  additions or departures of key personnel;. •  substantial sales of our common stock by our existing stockholders, whether or not related to our performance;. •  automated trading activity by algorithmic and high-frequency trading programs; and. •  volatility in the stock prices of other companies in our industry or in the stock market generally.. These and other external factors may cause the market price and demand for our common stock to fluctuate substantially, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares of common stock and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our common stock. In addition, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. Such a lawsuit could also divert our management's time and attention.. If securities or industry analysts publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price may decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which might cause our stock price and trading volume to decline.. 38. In addition, as required by the new revenue recognition standards under ASC 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which applies beginning in the first quarter of 2018, we will disclose the aggregate amount of transaction price allocated to performance obligations that are unsatisfied (or partially unsatisfied) as of the end of the reporting period. Market practices surrounding the calculation of this measure are still evolving. It is possible that analysts and investors could misinterpret our disclosure or that the terms of our research or license agreements or other circumstances could cause our methods for preparing this disclosure to differ significantly from others, which could lead to inaccurate or unfavorable forecasts by analysts and investors.. Regardless of accuracy, unfavorable interpretations of our financial information and other public disclosures could have a negative impact on our stock price. If our financial performance fails to meet analyst estimates, for any of the reasons discussed above or otherwise, or one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our common stock or change their opinion of our common stock, our stock price would likely decline.. If the ownership of our common stock continues to be highly concentrated, it may prevent you and other stockholders from influencing significant corporate decisions and may result in conflicts of interest that could cause our stock price to decline.. As of February 23, 2018, our executive officers, directors and their affiliates beneficially owned or controlled approximately 8.4% of the outstanding shares of our common stock (after giving effect to the exercise of all outstanding vested and unvested options, restricted stock units and warrants). Accordingly, these executive officers, directors and their affiliates, acting as a group, will have substantial influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets or any other significant corporate transactions. These stockholders may also delay or prevent a change of control of us, even if such a change of control would benefit our other stockholders. The significant concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock due to investors' perception that conflicts of interest may exist or arise.. Volatility in the stock prices of other companies may contribute to volatility in our stock price.. The stock market in general, and the NASDAQ stock exchanges and the market for technology companies in particular, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Further, there has been particular volatility in the market prices of securities of early stage and clinical stage life sciences companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. A securities class action suit against us could result in substantial costs, potential liabilities and the diversion of management's attention and resources, and could harm our reputation and business.. Our common stock is thinly traded and there may not be an active, liquid trading market for our common stock.. There is no guarantee that an active trading market for our common stock will be maintained on NASDAQ, or that the volume of trading will be sufficient to allow for timely trades. Investors may not be able to sell their shares quickly or at the latest market price if trading in our stock is not active or if trading volume is limited. In addition, if trading volume in our common stock is limited, trades of relatively small numbers of shares may have a disproportionate effect on the market price of our common stock.. Our stockholders will experience substantial additional dilution if outstanding equity awards are exercised or settled for common stock.. The exercise of stock options or settlement of equity awards for common stock would be substantially dilutive to the outstanding shares of common stock. Any dilution or potential dilution may cause our stockholders to sell their shares, which would contribute to a downward movement in the stock price of our common stock.. The recently passed comprehensive tax reform bill could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law new tax legislation, or the Tax Act, which significantly reforms the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"). The Tax Act, among other things, contains significant changes to corporate taxation, including reduction of the corporate tax rate from a top marginal rate of 35% to a flat rate of 21%; limitation of the tax deduction for interest expense to 30% of adjusted earnings (except for certain small businesses); limitation of the deduction for net operating losses generated after 2017 to 80% of current year taxable income, indefinite carryforward of net operating losses and elimination of net operating loss carrybacks; changes in the treatment of offshore earnings regardless of whether they are repatriated; mandatory capitalization of research and development expenses beginning in 2022; immediate deductions for certain new investments instead of deductions for depreciation expense over time; further deduction limits on executive compensation; and modifying, repealing and creating many other business deductions and credits, including the reduction in the orphan drug credit from 50% to 25% of qualifying. 39. expenditures. Federal net operating loss carryovers generated after 2017 will be carried forward indefinitely pursuant to the Tax Act. We continue to examine the impact this tax reform legislation may have on our business. Notwithstanding the reduction in the corporate income tax rate, the overall impact of the Tax Act is uncertain and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. The impact of this tax reform on holders of our common stock is also uncertain and could be adverse. This periodic report does not discuss any such tax legislation or the manner in which it might affect us or our stockholders in the future. We urge our stockholders to consult with their legal and tax advisors with respect to such legislation.. Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income, and our ability to use tax credit carryforwards, may be subject to certain limitations, and Ownership changes may limit our ability to use our net operating losses and tax credits in the future.. Our ability to use our federal and state net operating losses, or NOLs, to offset potential future taxable income and related income taxes that would otherwise be due is dependent upon our generation of future taxable income, and we cannot predict with certainty when, or whether, we will generate sufficient taxable income to use all of our NOLs.. As of December 31, 2017, we reported U.S. federal and state NOLs of approximately $382.8 million, $244.8 million, respectively. These federal NOLs generated prior to 2018 will continue to be governed by the NOL tax rules as they existed prior to the adoption of the new Tax Act, which means that generally they will expire 20 years after they were generated if not used prior thereto.  Many states have similar laws.  Accordingly, these federal and state NOLs could expire unused and be unavailable to offset future income tax liabilities.  Under the newly enacted Tax Act, federal NOLs incurred in 2018 and in future years may be carried forward indefinitely, but the deductibility of such federal NOLs is limited to 80% of current year taxable income.  It is uncertain if and to what extent various states will conform to the newly enacted federal tax law.. In addition, under the Code, our ability to utilize these NOLs and other tax attributes, such as federal tax credits, in any taxable year may be limited if we have experienced an \"ownership change.\" Generally, a Section 382 ownership change occurs if one or more stockholders or groups of stockholders who owns at least 5% of a corporation's stock increases its ownership by more than 50 percentage points over its lowest ownership percentage within a three-year testing period. Similar rules may apply under state tax laws. We do not believe that we have experienced an ownership change that we believe under Section 382 of the Code will result in limitations in our ability to use certain of our NOLs and credits since 2006. However, we may experience future ownership changes as a result of future offerings or other changes in the ownership of our stock, some of which are beyond our control. As a result, the amount of the NOLs and tax credit carryforwards presented in our financial statements could be limited and, in the case of NOLs generated in 2017 and before, may expire unused. Any such material limitation or expiration of our NOLs may harm our future operating results by effectively increasing our future tax obligations.. Evolving regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses, use of resources and continuing uncertainty.. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 and new SEC regulations and NASDAQ Stock Market LLC rules create uncertainty for public companies. We regularly evaluate and monitor developments with respect to new and proposed laws, regulations and standards. We cannot accurately predict or estimate the amount of the additional costs we may incur in connection with complying with such laws, regulations and standards or the timing of these costs. For example, compliance with the internal control requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act has to date required us to commit significant resources to document and test the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting. We can provide no assurance as to conclusions of management or by our independent registered public accounting firm with respect to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in the future. In addition, the SEC has adopted regulations that require us to file corporate financial statement information in an interactive data format known as XBRL. We may incur significant costs and need to invest considerable resources to remain in compliance with these regulations.. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices.. 40. We intend to maintain high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest the resources necessary to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies, due to ambiguities related to practice or otherwise, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us, which could be costly and time-consuming, and our reputation and business may be harmed.. We have never paid dividends on our capital stock, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future.. We have paid no cash dividends on any of our classes of capital stock to date and we currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our businesses. In addition, the terms of existing or any future debts may preclude us from paying these dividends.. 41"
