[1] "Item 1A.  RISK FACTORS. The factors that are discussed below, as well as the matters that are generally set forth in this Form 10-K and the documents incorporated by reference herein, could materially and adversely affect the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition.. We operate in highly competitive markets and face significant competition and pricing pressure.  If we are unable to keep up with the rapidly changing product market or compete effectively, we could lose market share, large project orders, and our results of operations could be negatively impacted.. The electronic display industry is characterized by ongoing product improvement, innovations and development.  We compete against products produced in foreign countries and the United States.  In addition, our products compete with other forms of advertising, such as television, print media and fixed display signs.  Our competitors may develop cheaper, more efficient products, or they may be willing to charge lower prices to increase their market share.  Some competitors have more capital and other resources, which may allow them to take advantage of acquisition opportunities or adapt more quickly to changes in customer requirements.  To remain competitive, we must anticipate and respond quickly to our customers' needs, enhance our existing products, introduce new products and features, and continue to price our products competitively.. Our results of operations on a quarterly and annual basis are likely to fluctuate and are substantially affected by the size and timing of large contract order awards.. Our net sales and earnings have varied in the past and are likely to vary in the future.  When awarded large contracts, primarily in the college and professional sports facilities markets, the OOH niche, the transportation market, and the large spectacular niche, the timing. 6. Table of contents. and amount of these contracts could cause material fluctuations in our net sales and earnings.  Awards of large contracts and their timing and amounts are difficult to predict, may not be repeatable, and are outside of our control.  Operating results in one quarter or fiscal year may not be indicative of future operating results.  Some factors that may cause our operating results to vary include:. • new product introductions;. • variations in product mix;. • production capacity utilization; and. • delays or cancellations of orders.. Our actual results could differ from the estimates and assumptions we make to prepare our financial statements, which could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. In connection with the preparation of our financial statements, including the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K, our management is required under GAAP to make estimates and assumptions based on historical experience and other factors.  Our most critical accounting estimates are described in \"Part II, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" in this Form 10-K.  These estimates and assumptions affect the recognition of contract revenue, costs, profits or losses in applying the principles of percentage of completion; estimated amounts for warranty costs; the valuation of our deferred tax assets; and estimating the impact of uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws.  Although we believe that these estimates and assumptions are reasonable under the circumstances, they are subject to significant uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control.  If management's estimates and assumptions change or are not correct, our financial condition or results of operation could be adversely affected.. Unanticipated warranty and other costs for defective products could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and reputation.. We provide warranties on our products with terms varying from one to 10 years.  In addition, we offer extended warranties.  These warranties require us to repair or replace faulty products and meet certain performance standards, among other customary warranty provisions.  Although we continually monitor our warranty claims and accrue a liability for estimated warranty costs, unanticipated claims could have a material adverse impact on our financial results.  In some cases, we may be able to subrogate a claim back to a subcontractor or supplier if the subcontractor or supplier supplied the defective product or performed the service, but this may not always be possible.  In addition, the need to repair or replace products with design and manufacturing defects could adversely affect our reputation.  The time required to remediate a claim may take time and could result in lost or deferred revenue, lead to costly warranty expenses, and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results.. During fiscal 2016, we discovered a warranty issue caused by a mechanical device failure within a module for displays primarily in our OOH application built prior to fiscal 2013.  During fiscal 2018, 2017 and 2016, we recognized warranty expense for probable and reasonably estimated costs to remediate this issue of $4.5 million, $1.8 million, and $9.2 million, respectively.  The increased warranty expense in fiscal 2018 is primarily based on our decision to preserve our market leadership and for customer relationship purposes in certain cases beyond our contractual obligations.  See \"Note 18. Commitments and Contingencies\" of the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K for more information regarding our warranty accrual.. We enter into fixed-price contracts, which could reduce our profits if actual costs exceed estimated costs.. Because of the complexity of many of our client contracts, accurately estimating the cost, scope and duration of a particular contract can be a difficult task.  Unanticipated costs that exceed our original estimates are not recoverable under fixed price contracts.  Unanticipated cost increases may occur as a result of several factors including, but not limited to: increases in the cost or shortages or non-availability of materials or labor; unanticipated technical problems; required project modifications not initiated by the customer; suppliers' or subcontractors' failure to perform or delay in performing their obligations; logistics disruptions or delays; and capacity constraints.  In addition to increased costs, these factors could delay delivery of products, which may result in the assessment of liquidated damages or other contractual damages which would negatively impact our profits.. Backlog may not be indicative of future revenue or profitability.. Many of our products have long sales, delivery and acceptance cycles.  In addition, our backlog is subject to order cancellations and delays.  Orders normally contain cancellation provisions to permit our recovery of costs expended and a pro-rata portion of the profit.  If projects are delayed, revenue recognition can occur over longer periods of time, and projects may remain in the backlog for extended periods of time.  If we receive relatively large orders in any given quarter, fluctuations in the levels of the quarterly backlog can result because the backlog may reach levels which may not be sustained in subsequent quarters.. 7. Table of contents. We depend on a single-source or a limited number of suppliers for our raw materials and components.  The loss, interruption, or material change in our business relationship could cause a disruption in supply and a substantial increase in costs of such materials.  Such change could cause harm to our sales, financial condition, and results of operations.. We obtain some of our raw materials and components used in the manufacture of our products from one or a limited number of suppliers.  If we cannot obtain key raw materials or components from our suppliers, the raw materials and components may not be readily available from other suppliers, other suppliers may not agree to supply the materials to us on terms as favorable as the terms we currently receive, or the materials from any other suppliers may not be of adequate and consistent quality.  Although we believe our supply of raw materials and components is adequate for the needs of our business, we cannot assure that new sources of supply will be available when needed.  Any interruption in our supply of raw materials or components could affect our ability to manufacture our products until a new source of supply is located and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. If we fail to timely and effectively obtain shipments of raw materials and components from our suppliers or send shipments of our manufactured product to our customers, our business and operating results could be adversely affected.. We cannot control all of the various factors that might affect our suppliers' timely and effective delivery of raw materials and components to our manufacturing facilities or the availability of freight capacity to deliver products to our customers.. Our utilization of  a complex supply chain for raw material and component imports and our global distribution of our products makes us vulnerable to many risks, including, among other things, risks of damage, destruction or confiscation of products while in transit to and from our manufacturing facilities; organized labor strikes and work stoppages, such as labor disputes, that could disrupt operations at ports-of-entry; transportation and other delays in shipments, including as a result of heightened security screening and inspection processes or other port-of-entry limitations or restrictions; unexpected or significant port congestion; lack of freight availability; and freight cost increases.  In addition, we may be required to arrange for products to be delivered through airfreight, which is significantly more expensive than standard shipping by sea.  We may not be able to obtain sufficient freight capacity on a timely basis or at favorable shipping rates and, therefore, may not be able to timely receive shipments of raw materials and components or deliver products to customers.. Price fluctuations in, and shortages of, raw materials and components can have a significant impact on our ability to produce our products which could cause harm to our sales, financial condition and results of operations.. Price fluctuations and shortages of any raw materials and components used to manufacture our products can occur due to various factors (such as worldwide demand, natural disasters, logistic disruptions, and trade regulations).  Electronic components used in our products are sometimes in short supply, which may impact our ability to meet customer demand.  If we experience shortages or increases in the price of raw materials and components and are unable to pass on those increases to our customers or are unable to manufacture our products, it could negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.  In addition to increased costs, these factors could delay delivery of products, which may result in the assessment of liquidated damages or other contractual damages that could negatively impact our profits.. We depend on third parties to complete our contracts.. Depending on the breadth of the scope of work of a contract, we may hire third-party subcontractors to perform on-site installation and service related activities or hire manufacturers of structures or elements of structures related to on-site installation.  If we are unable to hire qualified subcontractors or find qualified manufacturers for on-site elements, our ability to successfully complete a project could be impaired.  If we are not able to locate qualified third-party subcontractors or manufacturers of on-site elements, the amount we are required to pay for subcontractors or equipment and supplies may exceed what we have estimated, and we may suffer losses on these contracts.  If the subcontractor or manufacturer fails to provide services or manufacture on-site elements, we may be required to source these services to other third parties on a delayed basis or on less favorable terms, which could impact contract profitability.  There is a risk that we may have disputes with our subcontractors relating to, among other things, the quality and timeliness of work performed, customer concerns about the subcontractor, or faulty workmanship resulting in claims against us for failure to meet required project specifications and negatively impacting our financial condition and results of operations.. Unanticipated events resulting in credit losses could have a material adverse impact on our financial results.. Significant portions of our sales are to customers who place large orders for custom products.  We closely monitor the creditworthiness of our customers and have not, to date, experienced significant credit losses.  We mitigate our exposure to credit risk, to some extent, by requiring deposits, payments prior to shipment, progress payments and letters of credit.  However, because some of our exposure to credit losses is outside of our control, unanticipated events resulting in credit losses could have a material adverse impact on our operating results.. 8. Table of contents. We may not be able to utilize our capacity efficiently or accurately plan our capacity requirements, which may negatively affect our business and operating results.. We increase our production capacity and the overhead supporting production based on anticipated market demand.  Market demand, however, has not always developed as expected or remained at a consistent level.  This underutilization risk can potentially decrease our profitability and result in the impairment of certain assets.. The following factors are among those that could complicate capacity planning for market demand:. • changes in the demand for and mix of products that our customers buy;. • our ability to add and train our manufacturing staff in advance of demand;. • the market's pace of technological change;. • variability in our manufacturing productivity;. • long lead time for components used in production;. • geography of the order and related shipping methods; and. • long lead times for our plant and equipment expenditures.. Insurance coverage can be difficult or expensive to obtain, and our failure to obtain adequate insurance coverage could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.. We maintain insurance both as a corporate risk management strategy and to satisfy the requirements of many of our contracts with customers.  As the costs and availability of insurance change, we may decide not to be covered against certain losses where, in the judgment of management, the insurance is not warranted due to the cost or availability of coverage or the remoteness of the perceived risk.  We cannot provide assurance that all necessary or appropriate insurances will be available, cover every type of loss incurred, or be able to be economically secured.  For example, some insurers limit coverages, increase premium costs or increase deductibles when global catastrophic events occur.  As part of our corporate risk management strategy, we monitor and place our coverages with financially strong insurers, layer our risk with multiple insurers, and seek advice on the amount, breadth and type of insurance coverages to protect our interests.  We also contractually require subcontractors and others working on our behalf to carry common insurance coverages for the types of work they perform to mitigate any risk of our loss.  Our failure to obtain adequate insurance coverage could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.. The terms and conditions of our credit facilities impose restrictions on our operations, and if we default on our credit facilities, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and make us vulnerable to adverse economic or industry conditions.. The terms and conditions of our credit facilities impose restrictions limiting our ability to incur debt, contingent liabilities, lease obligations or liens; make a substantial change of ownership; or acquire or purchase a business or its assets.  The availability of our credit facilities is also subject to certain financial covenants which impose restrictions on the level of cash dividends and capital expenditures.  A breach of any of these covenants could result in an event of default under our credit facility.  Upon the occurrence of an event of default, the lender could elect to declare any and all amounts outstanding under such facility to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit.  For additional information on financing agreements, see \"Note 10. Financing Agreements\" of the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K.. For the foreseeable future, it is anticipated that borrowings from our existing credit facilities and cash provided by operating activities should provide sufficient funds to finance our capital expenditures, working capital and otherwise meet operating expenses and debt service requirements.  However, if additional capital is required, there can be no assurance we will be able to obtain such capital when needed or on satisfactory terms.  Also, market conditions can negatively impact our customers' ability to fund their projects and can impact our vendors, suppliers, and subcontractors and may not allow them to perform their obligations to us.. If we became unable to obtain adequate surety bonding or letters of credit, it could adversely affect our ability to bid on new work, which could have a material adverse effect on our future revenue and business prospects.. In line with industry practice, we are often required to provide performance and surety bonds to customers and may be required to provide letters of credit.  These bonds and letters of credit provide credit support for the client if we fail to perform our obligations under the contract.  If security is required for a particular project and we are unable to obtain a bond or letter of credit on terms acceptable to us and our client, we may not be able to pursue that project.  In addition, bonding may be more difficult to obtain in the future or may be available only at significant additional cost as a result of general conditions that affect the insurance and bonding markets.. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights effectively, or we may infringe upon the intellectual property of others, either of which may have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.. 9. Table of contents. We rely on a variety of intellectual property rights we use in our products and services.  We may not be able to successfully preserve our intellectual property rights in the future, and these rights could be invalidated, circumvented or challenged.  In particular, the laws of certain countries in which our products are sold do not protect our products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States.  If litigation is necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources even if we ultimately prevail.. In addition, intellectual property of others also has an impact on our ability to offer some of our products and services for specific uses or at competitive prices.  Competitors' patents or other intellectual property may limit our ability to offer products or services to our customers.  Any infringement or claimed infringement by us of the intellectual property rights of others could result in litigation and adversely affect our ability to continue to provide, or could increase the cost of providing, products and services.. Weakened global economic conditions may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations.. Our overall performance depends in part on worldwide economic conditions.  The United States and other key international economies have experienced cyclical downturns from time to time in which economic activity was impacted by falling demand for a variety of goods and services; restricted credit; poor liquidity; reduced corporate profitability; volatility in credit, equity and foreign exchange markets; bankruptcies; and overall uncertainty with respect to the economy.  These conditions affect consumer spending and could adversely affect our customers' ability or willingness to purchase our products, delay prospective customers' purchasing decisions, reduce the value of their contracts, or affect attrition rates, all of which could adversely affect our operating results.. Unexpected events, including natural disasters, may increase our cost of doing business or disrupt our operations.. The occurrence of one or more unexpected events, including war, terrorist acts, fires, tornadoes, floods and severe weather in the United States or in other countries in which we operate, may disrupt our operations as well as the operations of our customers.  Such acts could create additional uncertainties, forcing customers to reduce, delay, or cancel already planned projects.  These events could result in damage to, and a complete or partial closure of, one or more of our manufacturing facilities, which could make it difficult to supply our customers with product and provide our employees with work, thereby adversely affecting our business, operating results or financial condition.. Our global operations are exposed to global geopolitical, economic and social changes and conditions which expose our operations to risks and uncertainties, including unfavorable political developments, economic changes, unfavorable trading policies, difficulties in staffing and managing global operations, and additional compliance with foreign and domestic governmental regulations or requirements.. Our United States and foreign operations, sales, earnings, and strategies for profitable growth can be adversely affected by changes in treaty and trade relationships, changes in monetary and fiscal policies, changes in laws and regulations, or other activities of the United States and other foreign governments, agencies, and similar organizations.  These conditions include, but are not limited to, changes in a country's or region's economic or political conditions; pricing and marketing of products; local labor conditions and regulations; reduced protection of intellectual property rights; changes in the regulatory or legal environment; lack of well-developed legal systems; restrictions and foreign exchange rate fluctuations; and burdensome taxes and tariffs and other trade regulations or barriers.  Other exposures and uncertainties exist include changing social conditions and attitudes, terrorism, or political hostilities and war.  Other difficulties of global operations include staffing and managing foreign operations, including logistical and communication challenges.  The likelihood of such occurrences and their overall effect on us vary greatly from country to country and are not predictable.. Our future results may be affected by compliance risks related to United States and other countries' anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, trade controls, economic sanctions, and similar laws and regulations.  Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations could subject us to civil, criminal and administrative proceedings or penalties and harm our reputation.. Doing business on a worldwide basis requires us to comply with the laws and regulations of the United States government and various foreign jurisdictions.  These laws and regulations place restrictions on our operations, trade practices, partners, and investments.. In particular, we and our operations are subject to U.S. and foreign anti-corruption and trade control laws and regulations, such as the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the \"FCPA\"), United Kingdom Bribery Act (the \"Bribery Act\"); and export controls and economic sanctions programs, including those administered by the U.S. Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control (\"OFAC\"), the State Department's Directorate of Defense Trade Controls (the \"DDTC\"), and the Bureau of Industry and Security (the \"BIS\") of the U.S. Department of Commerce.. As part of our business, we deal with state-owned business enterprises, the employees of which are considered to be foreign officials for purposes of the FCPA's prohibition on United States companies from engaging in bribery, providing anything of value, or making other. 10. Table of contents. prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, and other similar regulations in other areas of the world.  In addition, the provisions of the Bribery Act apply to bribery of foreign officials and also to transactions with individuals that a government does not employ.  The FCPA also requires us to maintain specific record-keeping standards and adequate internal accounting controls.  In addition, we are subject to similar requirements in other countries.  Some of the international locations in which we do business lack a developed legal system and have higher than normal levels of corruption.  Our expansion outside of the United States, and our development of new partnerships and joint venture relations worldwide, could increase the risk of violation of the FCPA, OFAC, the Bribery Act or similar laws and regulations.. As an exporter, we must comply with various laws and regulations relating to the export of products and technology from the U.S. and other countries having jurisdiction over our operations and trade sanctions against embargoed countries and destinations administered by OFAC.  Before shipping certain items, we must obtain an export license or verify that license exemptions are available.  Any failures to comply with these laws and regulations could result in fines, adverse publicity and restrictions on our ability to export our products, and repeat failures could carry more significant penalties.. Bribery, corruption, and trade laws and regulations, and the enforcement thereof, are increasing in frequency, complexity and severity on a global basis.  Violations of anti-corruption, anti-bribery and trade control laws and sanctions regulations are punishable by civil penalties, including fines, denial of export privileges, injunctions, asset seizures, debarment from government contracts and revocations or restrictions of licenses, as well as criminal fines and imprisonment, and could harm our reputation, create negative shareholder sentiment and affect our share value.  We have established policies and procedures with the intention of providing reasonable assurance of compliance with these laws and regulations and trained our employees to comply with these laws and regulations.  However, our employees, contractors, agents and licensees involved in our international operations may take actions in violations of such policies.  If our employees, agents, distributors, suppliers and other third parties with whom we do business violate anti-bribery, anti-corruption or similar laws and regulations, we may incur severe fines, penalties and reputational damage.  Additionally, there can be no assurance that our policies and procedures will effectively prevent us from violating these regulations in every transaction in which we may engage or provide a defense to any alleged violation.  In particular, we may be held liable for the actions that our joint venture partners take inside or outside of the United States, even though our partners may not be subject to these laws.  Such a violation, even if our policies prohibit it, could have an adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations.  In addition, various state and municipal governments, universities and other investors maintain prohibitions or restrictions on investments in companies that do business with sanctioned countries, persons and entities, which could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations.. Global tax law changes may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to the income tax laws of the United States and its various state and local governments as well as several foreign tax jurisdictions.  Our future income taxes could be materially adversely affected by changes in the amount or mix of earnings amongst countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax rates or the interpretation of tax rules and regulations in jurisdictions in which we do business, changes in tax laws, or the outcome of income tax audits and any related litigation.  The U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is one such example of recent legislation that impacts our effective tax rate.. Further changes in the tax laws of the United States and foreign jurisdictions could arise, including additional tax reform in the United States and the base erosion and profit shifting (\"BEPS\") project undertaken by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (\"OECD\").  Both the United States tax reform and the OECD proposed recommendations, in some cases, would make substantial changes to numerous long-standing tax positions and principles.  These contemplated changes could increase tax uncertainty and may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Acquisitions and divestitures pose financial, management and other risks and challenges.. We routinely explore acquiring other businesses and assets.  Periodically, we may also consider disposing of certain assets, subsidiaries, or lines of business.  Acquisitions or divestitures present financial, managerial and operational challenges.  These include, but are not limited to, the following:. • diversion of management attention;. • difficulty with integrating acquired businesses;. • difficulty with the integration of different corporate cultures;. • personnel issues;. • increased expenses;. • assumption of unknown liabilities and indemnification obligations;. • potential disputes with the buyers or sellers;. • the time involved in evaluating or modifying the financial systems of an acquired business; and. • establishment of appropriate internal controls.. 11. Table of contents. There can be no assurance that we will engage in any acquisitions or divestitures or that we will be able to do so on terms that will result in any expected benefits.. If goodwill or other intangible assets in connection with our acquisitions become impaired, we could take significant non-cash charges against earnings.. We have pursued and will continue to seek potential acquisitions to complement and expand our existing businesses, increase our revenues and profitability, and expand our markets.  As a result of prior acquisitions, we have goodwill and intangible assets recorded on our consolidated balance sheet as described in \"Note 6. Goodwill and Intangible Assets\" of the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K.  Goodwill represents the purchase price paid in excess of the fair value of net tangible and intangible assets acquired in a business combination.  Goodwill is not amortized and remains on our balance sheet indefinitely unless there is an impairment or a sale of a portion of the business.  Under current accounting guidelines, we must assess, at least annually, whether the value of goodwill and other intangible assets has been impaired.  Any reduction or impairment of the value of goodwill or other intangible assets will result in charges against earnings, which would adversely affect our results of operations in future periods.  During fiscal 2017, we recorded a technology and customer list intangible asset impairment of $0.8 million.  We had no impairment in fiscal 2018.. Our data systems could fail or their security could be compromised, causing a material adverse effect on our business.. We rely heavily on digital technologies for the successful operation of our business and for the collection and retention of business data.  Any failure of our digital systems, or any breach of our systems' security measures, could adversely affect our operations, at least until our data can be restored and/or the breaches remediated.  Despite the security measures we have in place, our facilities and systems and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to cybersecurity breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming issues, and/or human errors or other similar events.  Any misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential or personally identifiable information, whether by us or by our third-party service providers, could adversely affect our business and operations.  We could face significant fines and penalties under various global laws revolving around data loss, lack of adequate date protection or lack of required reporting.  Any disruption in our digital technologies could affect our business and operations, causing potentially significant expenses to recover and modify the data systems and to investigate and remediate any vulnerabilities, which could severely damage our reputation with customers, suppliers, employees and investors and expose us to risk of litigation and liability.. Regulation in the areas of privacy, data protection and information security could increase our costs and affect or limit our business opportunities and how we collect or use personal information.. As privacy, data protection and information security laws, including data localization laws, are interpreted and applied, compliance costs may increase, particularly in the context of ensuring that adequate data protection and data transfer mechanisms are in place.  In recent years, there has been increasing regulatory enforcement and litigation activity in the areas of privacy, data protection and information security in the U.S. and in various countries in which we operate.  For example, effective on May 25, 2018, the General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\") became effective, and the GDPR applies to any organization, including Daktronics, that holds or uses data on people inside the European Union (\"EU\").  Under the GDPR, businesses must generally obtain consent from individuals in the EU before they store or process personal information, and data cannot be held longer than necessary.  The GDPR creates a range of new compliance obligations, which have caused us to change some of our business practices relative to the EU.  The GDPR greatly increases the jurisdictional reach of EU law and significantly increases financial penalties for noncompliance, including possible fines of up to 4% of global annual turnover for the preceding financial year or \20020 million (whichever is higher) for the most serious infringements.. In addition, state and federal legislators and/or regulators in the U.S. and other countries in which we operate are increasingly adopting or revising privacy, data protection and information security laws that potentially could have significant impact on our current and planned privacy, data protection and information security-related practices; our collection, use, sharing, retention and safeguarding of consumer and/or employee information; and some of our current or planned business activities.  New legislation or regulation could increase our costs of compliance and business operations and could reduce revenues from certain business initiatives.  Moreover, the application of existing or new laws to existing technology and practices can be uncertain and may lead to additional compliance risk and cost.. Compliance with current or future privacy, data protection and information security laws relating to consumer and/or employee data could result in higher compliance and technology costs and could restrict our ability to provide certain products and services, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.  Our failure to comply with privacy, data protection and information security laws could result in potentially significant regulatory and/or governmental investigations and/or actions, litigation, fines, sanctions, ongoing regulatory monitoring, customer attrition, decreases in the use or acceptance of our products and services, and damage to our reputation and our brand.. 12. Table of contents. We may fail to continue to attract, develop and retain key management personnel, which could negatively impact our operating results.. We depend on the performance of our senior executives and key employees, including experienced and skilled technical personnel.  The loss of any of our senior executives could negatively impact our operating results and ability to execute our business strategy.  Our future success will also depend upon our ability to attract, train, motivate and retain qualified personnel.. Although we intend to continue to provide competitive compensation packages to attract and retain key personnel, some of our competitors for these employees have greater resources and more experience, making it difficult for us to compete successfully for key personnel.  If we cannot attract and retain sufficiently qualified technical employees for our research and development and manufacturing operations, we may be unable to achieve the synergies expected from mergers and acquisitions, or to develop and commercialize new products or new applications for existing products.  Furthermore, possible shortages of key personnel, including engineers, in the regions surrounding our facilities could require us to pay more to hire and retain key personnel, thereby increasing our costs.. The outcome of pending and future claims, investigations or litigation can have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We are involved from time to time in a variety of litigation, investigations, inquires or similar matters arising in our business.  Litigation, investigations and regulatory proceedings are subject to inherent uncertainties, and unfavorable rulings and outcomes can and do occur.  Pending or future claims against us could result in professional liability, product liability, criminal liability, warranty obligations or other liabilities to the extent we are not insured against a loss or our insurance fails to provide adequate coverage.  Also, a well-publicized actual or perceived threat of litigation could adversely affect our reputation and reduce the demand for our products.. Our business involves the use of hazardous materials, and we must comply with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, which can be expensive and restrict how we do business.. Our business involves the blending, controlled storage, use and disposal of hazardous materials.  We and our suppliers are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these hazardous materials.  Although we believe the safety procedures we utilized for handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards prescribed by these laws and regulations, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials.  In the event of an accident, local, state, federal or foreign authorities may curtail the use of these materials and interrupt our business operations.  If we are subject to any liability as a result of activities involving hazardous materials, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected and our reputation may be harmed.. If our internal control over financial reporting is found to be ineffective, our financial statements may not be fairly stated, raising concerns for investors and potentially adversely affecting our stock price.. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to evaluate and determine the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting.  We have made, and will continue to make, changes to our internal controls and procedures for financial reporting and accounting systems to meet our reporting obligations as a public company.  We may encounter problems or delays in completing the review and evaluation, implementing improvements, or receiving a positive attestation from our independent registered public accounting firm.  In addition, our assessment of internal controls may identify deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting or other matters which may raise concerns for investors and therefore adversely affect our stock price.. The protections we have adopted and to which we are subject may discourage takeover offers favored by our shareholders.. Our articles of incorporation, by-laws and other corporate governance documents and the South Dakota Business Corporation Act (\"SD Act\") contain provisions that could have an anti-takeover effect and discourage, delay or prevent a change in control or an acquisition that many shareholders may find attractive.  These provisions make it more difficult for our shareholders to take some corporate actions.  These provisions relate to:. • the ability of our Board of Directors, without shareholder approval, to authorize and issue shares of stock with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights and preferences that are superior to our common stock;. • the classification of our Board of Directors, which effectively prevents shareholders from electing a majority of the directors at any one meeting of shareholders;. • the adoption of a shareholder rights plan providing for the exercise of common stock purchase rights when a person becomes the beneficial owner of 15 percent or more of our outstanding common stock (subject to certain exceptions);. • under the SD Act, limitations on the voting rights of shares acquired in specified types of acquisitions and restrictions on specified types of business combinations; and. 13. Table of contents. • under the SD Act, prohibitions against engaging in a \"business combination\" with an \"interested shareholder\" for a period of four years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested shareholder unless the business combination is approved.. These provisions may deny shareholders the receipt of a premium on their common stock, which in turn may have a depressive effect on the market price of our common stock.. Our common stock has at times been thinly traded, which may result in low liquidity and price volatility.. The daily trading volume of our common stock has at times been relatively low.  If this were to occur in the future, the liquidity and appreciation of our common stock may not meet our shareholders' expectations, and the prices at which our stock trades may be volatile.  The market price of our common stock could be adversely impacted as a result of sales by existing shareholders of a large number of shares of common stock in the market or by the perception such sales could cause.. Significant changes in the market price of our common stock could result in securities litigation claims against us.. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated and will likely continue to fluctuate and, in the past, companies that have experienced significant changes in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities litigation claims.  We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future.  Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention from other business concerns, which could harm our business.. Additionally, if we fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts and investors, or if one or more of the securities analysts who cover us adversely change their recommendation regarding our stock, the market price of our common stock could decline.  Moreover, our stock price may be based on expectations, estimates and forecasts of our future performance that may be unrealistic or that may not be met.  Further, our stock price may fluctuate based on reporting by the financial media, including television, radio, press reports and blogs.. There can be no assurance that we will pay dividends on our common stock.. Our Board of Directors has approved a regular dividend since fiscal 2006.  The declaration, amount and timing of such dividends are subject to capital availability and determinations by our Board of Directors that cash dividends are in the best interest of our shareholders and are in compliance with all respective laws and our agreements applicable to the declaration and payment of cash dividends.  Our ability to pay dividends will depend upon, among other factors, our cash balances and potential future capital requirements for strategic transactions, including acquisitions, results of operations, financial condition and other factors that our Board of Directors may deem relevant.  A reduction in or elimination of our dividend payments and/or our dividend program could have a material negative effect on our stock price.. Our executive officers, directors and principal shareholders have the ability to significantly influence all matters submitted to our shareholders for approval.. Dr. Aelred Kurtenbach served as our Chairman of the Board until September 3, 2014, when he retired.  Mr. Reece Kurtenbach, who is Dr. Aelred Kurtenbach's son, serves as our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer.  In addition, Dr. Aelred Kurtenbach has two other children who serve as our Vice President of Human Resources and as our Vice President of Manufacturing.  Together, these individuals, in the aggregate, beneficially owned 9.0% of our outstanding common stock as of June 4, 2018, assuming the exercise by them of all of their options that were currently exercisable or that vest within 60 days of June 4, 2018.  In addition, our other executive officers and directors, in the aggregate, beneficially owned an additional 4.7% of our outstanding common stock as of June 4, 2018, assuming the exercise by them of all of their options currently exercisable or that vest within 60 days of June 4, 2018.  While this does not represent a majority of our outstanding common stock, if these shareholders were to choose to act together, they would be able to significantly influence all matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, as well as our management and affairs.  For example, these persons, if they choose to act together, could significantly influence the election of directors and approval of any merger, consolidation, sale of all or substantially all of our assets or other business combination or reorganization.  This concentration of voting power could delay or prevent an acquisition of us on terms that other shareholders may desire.  The interests of this group of shareholders may not always coincide with the interests of other shareholders, and they may act in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other shareholders, including seeking a premium value for their common stock, that might affect the prevailing market price for our common stock.. We have been required to conduct a good faith reasonable country of origin analysis on our use of \"conflict minerals\", which has imposed and may impose additional costs on us and could raise reputational challenges and other risks.. 14. Table of contents. The SEC has promulgated rules in connection with the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act regarding disclosure of the use of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals, mined from the Democratic Republic of the Congo and adjoining countries.  As required annually, we filed Forms SD since 2014 reporting our work performed to gain information on the source of conflict minerals we use.  We incur costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements.  As we continue our due diligence, we may face reputational challenges if we continue to be unable to verify the origins for all conflict minerals used in our products.  We may also encounter challenges in our efforts to satisfy customers that may require all of the components of products purchased to be certified as conflict free.  If we are not able to meet customer requirements, customers may choose to disqualify us as a supplier."
