[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk and uncertainty. Our business, operating results, growth prospects and financial condition are subject to various risks, many of which are not exclusively within our control, that may cause actual performance to differ materially from historical or projected future performance. We urge investors to consider carefully the risks described below, together with all of the information in this report and our other public filings, before making investment decisions regarding our securities. Each of these risk factors, as well as additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial, could adversely affect our business, operating results, growth prospects or financial condition, as well as the trading price of our common stock, in which case you may lose all or part of your investment.. Risks Related to Our Business. We have incurred significant losses since our inception and expect to continue to incur losses in the foreseeable future. We must raise additional funds to finance our operations and remain a going concern.. Since inception, we have incurred significant operating losses. We incurred losses of $11,521,197 for the year ended December 31, 2017. At December 31, 2017, our accumulated deficit was $12,230,952. Negative cash flows from our operations are expected to continue for the foreseeable future. Based on our current operating plan, our current cash reserves are sufficient to fund operations for at least 12 months.. Our utilization of cash has been and will continue to be highly dependent on the product development programs we choose to pursue, particularly our programs for Ovaprene and Topical Sildenafil (also known as SST-6007), the progress of these programs, the results of our preclinical studies and clinical trials, the cost, timing and outcomes of regulatory decisions regarding a potential approval for our current product candidates or any future product candidates we may choose to develop, the terms and conditions of our contracts with service providers and license partners, and the rate of recruitment of patients in our clinical trials. In addition, the continuation of our clinical trials, and quite possibly our entire business, will depend on results of upcoming analyses and our financial resources at the time. Should our product development efforts be successful, we will need to develop a commercialization plan for each product developed, which would also require significant resources.. We will need to raise additional capital through public or private equity financings, debt financings, strategic partnerships or other types of arrangements in order to successfully execute our current operating plan and to continue the development of our current product candidates. See also \" - We expect to be heavily reliant on our ability to raise capital through capital market transactions. Due to our small public float, low market capitalization, limited operating history and lack of revenue, it may be difficult and expensive for us to raise additional funds.\" If we raise capital through strategic partnerships or other types of arrangements, we may be required to relinquish, on terms that are not favorable to us, rights to some of our technologies or product candidates that we would otherwise seek to develop or commercialize. There can be no assurance that we will be able to raise additional capital when needed. If we are unable to raise additional capital when needed, we will not be able to continue development of our product candidates or we will be required to delay, scale back or eliminate some or all of our development programs or cease operations.. Due in part to our limited financial resources, we may fail to select or capitalize on the most scientifically, clinically or commercially promising or profitable indications or therapeutic areas for our product candidates, and we may be unable to pursue and complete the clinical trials that we would like to pursue and complete.. We have limited resources, including financial and technical resources, which may impact the development efforts of our existing product candidates and any future candidates we may choose to develop. Due to our limited resources, we may be required to curtail clinical development programs and activities that might otherwise have led to more rapid progress of our product candidate, or product candidates that we may in the future choose to develop, through the regulatory and development processes. We may make incorrect determinations with regard to the indications and clinical trials on which to focus the available resources that we do have. The decisions to allocate our research, management and financial resources toward particular indications may not lead to the development of viable commercial products and may divert resources from better opportunities. Similarly, our decisions to delay or terminate development programs may also cause us to miss valuable opportunities.. We expect to be heavily reliant on our ability to raise capital through capital market transactions. Due to our small public float, low market capitalization, limited operating history and lack of revenue, it may be difficult and expensive for us to raise additional capital.. We expect to be heavily reliant on our ability to raise additional capital through the issuance of shares of our common stock or securities linked to our common stock. Our ability to raise capital will depend on a number of factors,. 15. many of which may not be favorable for raising capital, including the low trading volume and volatile trading price of our common stock, unfavorable market conditions or other market factors outside of our control, and the risk factors described elsewhere in this report, including those related to warrants we issued in February 2018. Even if we are able to raise additional capital, the cost of capital may be substantial due to our low market capitalization and our small public float, and the costs associated with raising capital and the effective cost of such capital for public companies like ours with a small public float may be more expensive when compared to the cost of capital for larger public companies. The terms of any funding we are able to obtain may not be favorable to us and may be highly dilutive to our stockholders, and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants. There can be no assurance that we will be able to raise additional capital when needed. The failure to obtain additional capital when needed would have a material adverse effect on our business.. We are actively seeking additional product candidates that we believe may add to our portfolio of innovative products for women's reproductive health, but we are not currently adequately capitalized to advance additional product candidates through development.. Our business strategy is to license or otherwise acquire the rights to differentiated reproductive health product candidates primarily in the areas of contraception, vaginal health, sexual health, and fertility, and to take those candidates through advanced stages of clinical development. Taking product candidates through advanced stages of clinical development requires substantial capital and does not generate any income. Executing our business strategy requires us to obtain additional capital to license or otherwise acquire rights to additional product candidates to grow and advance our portfolio and to take our product candidates through clinical development and eventually to commercialization or strategic partnership. Such capital may not be available to us, or even it is, the cost of such capital may be high. See \" - We have incurred significant losses since our inception and expect to continue to incur losses in the foreseeable future. We must raise additional funds to finance our operations and remain a going concern,\" above. Based on our current operating plan, our current cash reserves are sufficient to fund operations for at least 12 months. Should we add additional product candidates to our portfolio or should our existing product candidates require testing or other capital intensive procedures that we did not anticipate, our cash resources will be strained. We may be forced to obtain additional capital before reaching clinical milestones, when our stock price or trading volume or both are low, or when the general market for biopharmaceutical, medical device, or other life sciences companies is weak. Raising capital under any of these or similar scenarios, if we can raise any at all, may lead to significant dilution to our existing stockholders. If we are unable to raise additional capital when required and on acceptable terms, we will not be able to add additional product candidates to our portfolio or we will be required to delay, scale back or eliminate some or all our development programs or cease operations.. The health care product candidates we are developing or may develop in the future are likely to face significant competition. In the event we receive regulatory approval for any of our product candidates, their ability to compete will be impacted by the efficacy and safety outcomes of our clinical trials.. Today, there are a variety of hormonal and non-hormonal contraceptive options available to women and men, including oral contraceptive pills and intrauterine devices, newer hormonal contraceptive products including implants, injectables, vaginal rings, patches, and hormonal intrauterine systems, and non-hormonal methods such as female condoms, novel diaphragms, and new methods of female sterilization. In surveys, women have said that the features they consider most important when selecting a contraceptive method are efficacy, ease-of-use and side effects. In order to have significant revenue potential as a new contraceptive product option, we believe Ovaprene must generate typical use efficacy outcomes (which are the expected rates of pregnancy protection once the product is used widely under every day circumstances) consistent with the most commonly used short-acting non-hormonal method, the condom, which is 82% effective and approaching that of a diaphragm which is approximately 88% effective. Clinical testing will also need to demonstrate that the device can be safely worn for multiple weeks. Should Ovaprene fail to generate the safety and efficacy data expected, our business prospects would be materially damaged.. Today's available options for treating FSAD consist primarily of over-the-counter products for vaginal lubrication. Although no products have been approved by the FDA for FSAD, we believe it is likely that new product candidates will be developed by others over time. Sexual arousal can be influenced by many different emotional and physiological factors and hence, our clinical trials must anticipate such factors in order to produce efficacious outcomes. SST-6007, our Topical Sildenafil product candidate, is designed to increase local blood flow to the genital tissue. Even if we are successful in increasing blood flow, the product may not lead to an increase in arousal or an improvement in the overall sexual experience in some women. If we fail to generate compelling clinical results from our trials, many women suffering from sexual arousal disorder may opt not to try SST-6007. If we fail to produce strong clinical outcomes, our ability to build a commercial market for SST-6007 will be materially impacted. See also \"The patents and the patent applications covering SST-6007 are limited to specific topical formulations, processes and uses of sildenafil, and our market opportunity may be limited by the lack of patent protection for the active ingredient itself and other formulations and delivery technology and systems that may be developed by competitors,\" below.. 16. We only have a limited number of employees to manage and operate our business.. As of March 13, 2018, we had a total of six employees, all of whom were full-time. Our focus on limiting cash utilization requires us to manage and operate our business in a highly efficient manner, relying on external consultants for needed clinical development expertise and to limit full-time personnel resources. No assurance can be given that we will be able to run our operations or accomplish all of the objectives that we otherwise would seek to accomplish with the limited personal resources we currently have.. If we fail to attract and retain management and other key personnel, we may be unable to successfully commercialize our product candidates, develop any product candidates or otherwise implement our business plan.. Our ability to compete in the highly competitive pharmaceutical and medical device industries depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified managerial and key personnel. We are highly dependent on our senior management. The loss of the service of senior management individuals could impede, delay or prevent the development and commercialization of our product candidates, hurt our ability to raise additional funds and negatively impact our ability to implement our business plan. If we lose the services of either of these individuals, we might not be able to find suitable replacements on a timely basis or at all, and our business could be materially harmed. We do not maintain \"key man\" insurance policies on the lives of either of these individuals.. We might not be able to attract or retain qualified management and other key personnel in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel among biotechnology, medical device, pharmaceutical and other businesses, particularly in the San Diego area where we are headquartered. As a result, we may be required to expend significant financial resources in our employee recruitment and retention efforts. Many of the other companies within the contraceptive industry with whom we compete for qualified personnel have greater financial and other resources, different risk profiles and longer histories in the industry than we do. They also may provide more diverse opportunities and better chances for career advancement. If we are not able to attract and retain the necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that will harm our ability to implement our business strategy and achieve our business objectives.. Our business development strategy has included, and will likely continue to include, the acquisition of products, product licenses or other businesses. We may not be able to successfully manage such activities.. We may engage in strategic transactions that could cause us to incur additional liabilities, commitments or significant expense. Strategic transactions, including the SST license agreement we entered into in February 2018, could subject us to a number of risks, including, but not limited to:. •  our inability to appropriately evaluate the potential risks and uncertainties associated with a given transaction;. •  our inability to effectively integrate a new technology, product and/or business, personnel, intellectual property or business relationships; and. •  our inability to generate milestones or revenues from a strategic transaction sufficient to meet our objectives in undertaking the transaction.. We may underestimate development costs, timelines, regulatory approval and commercial market opportunity for a strategic transaction that would cause us to fail to realize the anticipated value of the transaction. Any strategic transaction we may pursue may not produce the outcomes and benefits we originally anticipated, may result in costs that end up outweighing the benefits, and may adversely impact our financial condition and be detrimental to our company in general.. Our current or future employees, principal investigators, consultants and commercial partners may engage in misconduct or other improper activities, including non-compliance with regulatory standards.. We may become exposed to the risk of employees, independent contractors, principal investigators, consultants, suppliers, commercial partners or vendors engaging in fraud or other misconduct. Misconduct by employees, independent contractors, principal investigators, consultants, suppliers, commercial partners and vendors could include intentional failures such as failures: (i) to comply with FDA or other regulators' requirements, (ii) to provide accurate information to such regulators or (iii) to comply with manufacturing standards established by us and/or required by law, (iv) to comply with SEC rules and regulations. In particular, sales, marketing and business arrangements in the health care industry are subject to extensive laws, regulations and industry guidance intended to prevent fraud, misconduct, kickbacks, self-dealing and other abusive practices. These laws and regulations may restrict or prohibit a wide range of pricing, discounting, marketing and promotion, sales commission, customer incentive programs and other business arrangements. Misconduct by current or future employees, independent contractors, principal investigators, consultants, suppliers, commercial partners and vendors could also involve the improper use of information obtained in the course of clinical trials, which could result. 17. in regulatory or civil sanctions and serious harm to our reputation. It is not always possible to identify and deter misconduct by employees, independent contractors, principal investigators, consultants, suppliers, commercial partners and vendors, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses, or in protecting us from governmental investigations or other actions or lawsuits stemming from a failure to be in compliance with such laws or regulations. If any such actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending or asserting our rights, those actions could have a significant adverse impact on our business, including the imposition of significant fines or other sanctions, and our reputation.. We expect to continue to incur increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management will be required to devote substantial time to compliance initiatives and corporate governance practices.. As a public company, we will be incurring and expect to continue to incur additional significant legal, accounting and other expenses in relation to our status as a public reporting company. We expect that these expenses will further increase after we are no longer an \"emerging growth company.\" We expect that we will need to hire additional accounting, finance and other personnel in connection with our continuing efforts to comply with the requirements of being a public company, and our management and other personnel will need to continue to devote a substantial amount of time towards maintaining compliance with these requirements. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and Nasdaq have imposed various requirements on public companies, including establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel, which are currently only a total of six employees, will need to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly.. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Section 404, we will be required to furnish a report by our management on our internal controls over financial reporting, including an attestation report on internal control over financial reporting issued by our independent registered public accounting firm. However, while we remain an emerging growth company, we will not be required to include an attestation report on internal control over financial reporting issued by our independent registered public accounting firm. To achieve compliance with Section 404 within the prescribed period, we will be engaged in a process to document and evaluate our internal control over financial reporting, which is both costly and challenging. In this regard, we will need to continue to dedicate internal resources, potentially engage outside consultants and adopt a detailed work plan to assess and document the adequacy of internal control over financial reporting, continue implementing steps to improve control processes as appropriate, validate through testing that controls are functioning as documented and implement a continuous reporting and improvement process for internal control over financial reporting. If we identify one or more material weaknesses, this could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our consolidated financial statements.. The recently passed comprehensive federal tax reform bill could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law the \"Tax Cuts and Jobs Act,\" or TCJA, which significantly reforms the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The TCJA, among other things, includes changes to U.S. federal tax rates, imposes significant additional limitations on the deductibility of interest and net operating loss carryforwards, allows for the expensing of capital expenditures, and puts into effect the migration from a \"worldwide\" system of taxation to a territorial system. Our net deferred tax assets and liabilities will be revalued at the newly enacted U.S. corporate rate, and the impact, if any, will be recognized in our tax expense in the year of enactment. We continue to examine the impact this tax reform legislation may have on our business. The overall impact of the TCJA is uncertain and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected.. Security breaches, loss of data and other disruptions could compromise sensitive information related to our business, prevent us from accessing critical information or expose us to liability, which could adversely affect our business and our reputation. We utilize information technology systems and networks to process, transmit and store electronic information in connection with our business activities. As the use of digital technologies has increased, cyber incidents, including deliberate attacks and attempts to gain unauthorized access to computer systems and networks, have increased in frequency and sophistication. These threats pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data, all of which are vital to our operations and business strategy. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in preventing cyber-attacks or successfully mitigating their effects.. Despite the implementation of security measures, any of the internal computer systems belonging to us or our third-party service providers are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, war, and telecommunication and electrical failure. Any system failure, accident, security breach or data breach. 18. that causes interruptions in our own or in third-party service vendors' operations could result in a material disruption of our product development programs. For example, the loss of clinical study data from future clinical studies could result in delays in our or our partners' regulatory approval efforts and significantly increase our costs in order to recover or reproduce the lost data. Further, our information technology and other internal infrastructure systems, including firewalls, servers, leased lines and connection to the Internet, face the risk of systemic failure, which could disrupt our operations. To the extent that any disruption or security breach results in a loss or damage to our data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we may incur resulting liability, our product development programs and competitive position may be adversely affected, and the further development of our products may be delayed. Furthermore, we may incur additional costs to remedy the damage caused by these disruptions or security breaches.. Risks Related to Clinical Development, Manufacturing and Commercialization. Our success will depend heavily on our ability to develop Ovaprene and SST-6007. Failure to develop these product candidates would likely adversely affect our business.. We currently have only two product candidates and our business depends on the successful clinical development and regulatory approval of each, which may never occur. Ovaprene will require substantial clinical testing in order to demonstrate that it is a safe and effective contraceptive option. Likewise, SST-6007 will need to demonstrate that it is a safe and effective option for women seeking treatment of FSAD. We have never received a regulatory approval for any product. Even if we are able to conduct clinical trials for these product candidates, we may be unable to obtain regulatory approval for either of them, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. We may seek to license the product and technology rights to additional product candidates in women's reproductive health, but there can be no assurance we will be able to do so, or do so on favorable terms. There are risks, uncertainties and costs associated with identifying, licensing and advancing product candidates through successful clinical development. Even if we were able to obtain the rights to additional product candidates, there can be no assurance that these candidates will ever be advanced successfully through clinical development.. We are highly dependent on our license agreements with ADVA-Tec, Inc. and Strategic Science & Technologies, LLC and the loss or impairment of either license would have a materially adverse impact on our business prospects, operations and viability.. Our current portfolio includes two product candidates, both of which we license and both of which are critical to our business. In July 2017, we entered into a license agreement with ADVA-Tec for the exclusive worldwide rights to develop and commercialize Ovaprene. In addition to standard termination rights, ADVA-Tec may terminate the license agreement if we (i) fail to make significant scheduled investments in product development activities over the course of the agreement, (ii) fail to commercialize Ovaprene within six (6) months of obtaining a PMA from the FDA, (iii) with respect to the license in any particular country, fail to commercialize Ovaprene in that particular country within three (3) years of the first commercial sale, (iv) develop or commercialize a non-hormonal ring-based vaginal contraceptive device other than Ovaprene or (v) fail to conduct certain clinical trials. See \"ITEM 1. BUSINESS - Overview - License and Royalty Agreements - Ovaprene,\" above.. In February 2018, we entered into a world-wide license and collaboration agreement with Strategic Science for the exclusive worldwide rights to develop and commercialize SST-6007 for all indications for women related to female sexual dysfunction and/or female reproductive health, including treatment of the female sexual arousal disorder FSAD. The SST license agreement provides that each party will have customary rights to terminate the agreement in the event of material uncured breach by the other party and under certain other circumstances. The SST license agreement provides Strategic Science with the right to terminate it with respect to the applicable Strategic Science licensed products in specified countries upon 30 days' notice if we fail to use commercially reasonable efforts to perform development activities in substantial accordance with the development plan contained in the SST license agreement and do not cure such failure within 60 days of receipt of Strategic Science's notice thereof. See \"ITEM 1. BUSINESS - Overview - License and Royalty Agreements - SST-6007,\" above.. If our license agreement with ADVA-Tec or Strategic Science or both is terminated, impaired, or limited, we could lose the ability to develop and commercialize Ovaprene or SST-6007, as applicable, either of which would have a materially adverse impact on our business prospects and operations.. Delays in the commencement or completion of clinical testing of our current and any other future product candidates we may seek to develop could result in increased costs and longer timelines and could impact our ability to ever become profitable. Clinical testing is time consuming and expensive and its outcome is uncertain.. We expect to commence a PCT clinical trial during the first half of 2018 in order to assess the safety and preliminary efficacy of Ovaprene. In addition, pending authorization to do so from the FDA, we anticipate commencing a Phase 2b clinical trial for SST-6007 in the second half of 2018. The initiation and completion of these and other clinical. 19. trials may vary dramatically due to factors within and outside of our control, and the results from early clinical trials may not necessarily be predictive of results obtained in later clinical trials; even if results from early clinical trials are positive, we may not be able to confirm those results in future clinical trials. Further, clinical trials may not ever demonstrate sufficient safety and effectiveness to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals for our product candidates. Any change in, or termination of, clinical trials could materially harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. The tests and clinical trials of our current and any future product candidates we may seek to develop may not commence, progress or be completed as expected, and delays would significantly impact our product development costs and timelines. The commencement of clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including delays in:. •  obtaining required funding;. •  expected rates of recruitment and enrollment;. •  reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective CROs and clinical trial sites;. •  obtaining sufficient quantities of clinical trial materials for product candidates;. •  obtaining IRB approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site; and. •  recruiting participants in a timely manner.. In addition, once a clinical trial has begun, it may experience unanticipated delays or be suspended or terminated by us, the FDA or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, all of which could impact our ability to complete our trials in a timely and cost-efficient manner, including:. •  failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements;. •  higher than anticipated participant drop-out rates;. •  failure of clinical trial participants to use the product as directed or to report data as per trial protocols;. •  inspection of the clinical trial operations or clinical trial site by the FDA or other regulatory authorities resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold;. •  failure to achieve certain efficacy and/or safety standards;. •  participants experiencing severe side effects or other adverse events related to the investigational treatment; or. •  lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial.. Ovaprene is a drug/device combination and the process for obtaining regulatory approval for Ovaprenein the United States will require compliance with more complex requirements of the FDA applicable to combination products. A change in the FDA's primary oversight responsibility would adversely impact our development timeline and significantly raise our costs.. Ovaprene is composed of both device and drug components and is considered a combination product by the FDA. It has a contraceptive intravaginal ring design that includes a permeable mesh in the center of the ring that creates a partial barrier to sperm, and a release through the ring of locally acting spermiostatic agents. The barrier seeks to block the progression of sperm into the cervical mucus while the agents seek to create an environment that is inhospitable to sperm. Ovaprene previously underwent a request for designation, or RFD, process with the FDA that determined that the product had a device-primary mode of action and CDRH would lead the review of a PMA for the product. If the designation were to be changed to CDER, or if either division were to institute additional requirements for the approval of Ovaprene, we could be required to complete clinical studies with more patients and over longer periods of time than is currently anticipated. This would require us to raise additional funds and would cause us to miss anticipated timelines. Because Ovaprene is one of our only two product candidates currently in development, the impact of either a change in lead FDA review Center or the imposition of additional requirements for approval would be significant to us and would have a material adverse effect on the prospects for the development of Ovaprene, our business and our financial condition.. The factors contributing to Female Sexual Dysfunction and specifically, Female Sexual and Genital Arousal Disorders are complex in nature making the design and implementation of a successful clinical trial challenging.. Female Sexual Dysfunction disorders in women vary in nature and may be the result of a variety of physiological and psychological factors.  Given the variability of factors contributing to the underlying condition, clinical studies to evaluate effectiveness in any subset of the condition under the umbrella of Sexual Dysfunction, such as arousal disorder, are complex. SST-6007 works primarily by increasing blood flow to the genital tissue. Therefore, it will be critical for us to. 20. identify patients for whom inadequate blood flow to the genital tissue is the primary contributor to their arousal disorder.  If we fail to screen properly, and instead enroll patients with different contributing factors, the results of our clinical trials will not demonstrate effectiveness. Even if we are able to identify women for whom inadequate blood flow is the primary contributing factor to their sexual arousal difficulties, there is no guaranty that the use of SST-6007 will improve their general feelings of arousal or that we can utilize a patient reported outcome measure that adequately captures their genital arousal response. Given the factors contributing to arousal disorders, we may be forced to run clinical trials in large patient populations, extending the timelines and increasing the cost of product development.. Today there are no FDA approved treatments for arousal disorders in women, and we lack a precedent program to assist in the design of our clinical trials. These factors increase our development risk and the chance of failure. Our failure to design and implement a successful clinical trial for SST-2006 would have material adverse impact on our business and our financial condition.. Our business is dependent on obtaining FDA approval for our product candidates in a timely manner, and the requirements for obtaining approval may change over time, requiring more financial resources and development time than we currently anticipate.. Our future success depends on our ability to obtain FDA regulatory approvals for our product candidates in a timely and cost-efficient manner. We may experience delays in our efforts to obtain such approvals for any of our product candidates, and there can be no assurance that such approvals will not be delayed, or that the FDA will ultimately approve these product candidates. The development path of our product candidates will reflect current FDA requirements, additional future FDA requirements, and may be influenced by the outcomes of other similar product candidates under development. In addition, the announcement of new requirements by the FDA, the failure of a competitive product to receive regulatory approval, or the receipt of a CRL from the FDA by another company pursuing a 505(b)(2) pathway that may have implications for our proposed pathway could impact how investors and potential strategic parties view the development risks associated with our product candidates. Changing clinical requirements for us or for others deemed to be comparable to us may impact our financial resources, our development timelines and may harm the perception held by others of our business.. Successful challenges to the FDA's interpretation of Section 505(b)(2) could impact the clinical development of SST-6007 and materially harm our business.. We intend to develop SST-6007 pursuant to the FDA's Section 505(b)(2) regulatory pathway. If the FDA determines that we may not use the 505(b)(2) pathway for the development of SST-6007, then we would be required to seek approval of SST-6007 via a \"full\" or \"stand-alone\" NDA under Section 505(b)(1). This would require us to conduct additional clinical trials, provide additional data and information, and meet additional standards for regulatory approval. If this were to occur, the time and financial resources required to obtain FDA approval for SST-6007, and the complications and risks associated with this product candidate, would likely substantially increase and would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.. The Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, also known as the Hatch-Waxman Act, added Section 505(b)(2) to the FDCA. As described above, Section 505(b)(2) permits the filing of an NDA where at least some of the information required for approval comes from studies that were not conducted by or for the applicant and for which the applicant has not obtained a right of reference. Section 505(b)(2), if applicable to us under the FDCA, would allow an NDA we submit to the FDA to rely in part on data in the public domain or the FDA's prior conclusions regarding the safety and effectiveness of approved compounds, which could expedite the development program for SST-6007.. Although the FDA's longstanding position has been that it may rely upon prior findings of safety or effectiveness to support approval of a 505(b)(2) application, this policy has been controversial and subject to challenge in the past. In addition, notwithstanding the approval of an increasing number of products by the FDA under Section 505(b)(2) over the last few years, certain brand-name pharmaceutical companies and others have objected to the FDA's interpretation of Section 505(b)(2). If the FDA's interpretation of Section 505(b)(2) is successfully challenged, the FDA may change its 505(b)(2) policies and practices, which could delay or even prevent the FDA from approving any NDA that we submit under Section 505(b)(2). In addition, the pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive, and Section 505(b)(2) NDAs are subject to special requirements designed to protect the patent rights of sponsors of previously approved drugs that are referenced in a Section 505(b)(2) NDA. Even if we are able to utilize the Section 505(b)(2) regulatory pathway, there is no guarantee this would ultimately lead to accelerated product development or earlier approval.. Moreover, any delay resulting from our inability to pursue the Section 505(b)(2) regulatory pathway could result in new competitive products reaching the market more quickly than our product candidates, which would likely materially adversely impact our competitive position and prospects. Even if we are allowed to pursue the Section 505(b)(2) regulatory pathway, we cannot assure you that our product candidates will receive the requisite approvals for commercialization.. 21. Obtaining regulatory approval is a lengthy, expensive and uncertain process and may not be obtained on a timely basis, or at all. The requirements for approval may change over time and our clinical development programs may not accurately anticipate all of our regulatory requirements.. Even if we receive regulatory approvals for our product candidates, they may not gain acceptance among physicians, consumers or the medical community, thereby limiting our potential to generate revenue, which will undermine our future growth prospects.. Even if our product candidates are approved for commercial sale by the FDA or other regulatory authorities, the degree of market acceptance of any new product by physicians, consumers, health care professionals and third-party payors will depend on a number of factors, including:. •  demonstrated evidence of efficacy and safety;. •  sufficient third-party insurance coverage or reimbursement;. •  effectiveness of our or our collaborators' sales and marketing strategy;. •  the willingness of uninsured consumers to pay for the product;. •  the willingness of pharmacy chains to stock the products;. •  the prevalence and severity of any adverse side effects; and. •  availability of alternative products.. If our products fail to provide a benefit over then currently available options, we are unlikely to generate sufficient revenues to achieve profitability.. The commercial success of Ovaprene, SST-6007 or any future product candidate we may seek to develop, will depend on the availability of alternative products and women's preferences, in addition to the market's acceptance of our product(s).. If we receive regulatory approval to market Ovaprene, its commercial success, or the success of any other future contraceptive product candidate we may seek to develop, will depend upon the contraceptive market as well as market acceptance of an alternative method. Risks related to market acceptance include, among other things:. •  minimum acceptable contraceptive efficacy rates;. •  perceived safety differences of hormonal and/or non-hormonal contraceptive options;. •  changes in health care laws and regulations, including the ACA, and its effect on pharmaceutical coverage, reimbursement and pricing, and the birth control mandate;. •  competition from new lower dose hormonal contraceptives with more favorable side effect profiles; and. •  new generic contraceptive options including a generic version of the hormone-containing intravaginal product NuvaRing®.. If one or more of these risks occur it could reduce the market potential for Ovaprene, or any future contraceptive product we may seek to develop, and place pressure on our business, financial condition, results of operation and prospects.. Today, there are no FDA-approved products to treat FSAD. While our goal is for SST-6007 to be the first product to receive such approval, other competitive products may obtain an approval before us.  Even if we achieve that goal, the costs associated with introducing a new product into the women's reproductive health market would likely be significant, and regardless of the amount spent, there is no guarantee that our new product will be broadly adopted. Our commercial success with SST-6007 will depend, in large part, on our ability to educate doctors and women about the need to diagnose and treat FSAD and to demonstrate the merits of SST-6007. Women may be hesitant to use SST-6007 for a variety of reasons, including the lack of experience with any product designed to treat FSAD, the lack or perceived lack of clinical evidence supporting its benefits, and the out-of-pocket cost of SST-6007 particularly if it is not covered by insurance.. If we suffer negative publicity concerning the safety or efficacy of our products in development, our reputation could be harmed and we may be forced to cease development of such products.. If concerns should arise about the actual or anticipated clinical outcomes regarding the safety of any of our product candidates, such concerns could adversely affect the market's perception of these candidates, which could lead to a decline in investors' expectations and a decline in the price of our common stock.. 22. Our clinical product candidates have only been tested in a small number of women over short periods of use and no data exist regarding a potential increase in fetal abnormalities in pregnant women.. If either of our two clinical candidates, Ovaprene and SST-6007, are successful in their clinical development, we expect that women of child-bearing age will use them, and potentially for many months or years. To date, human clinical studies of our product candidates have been for relatively short periods of time and our product candidates lack safety data over longer periods of use.  For example, while we believe the risk of adverse fetal development from using either Ovaprene or SST-6007 is low, the impact of Ovaprene on fetal development has not been studied and there are no adequate or well-controlled studies of SST-6007 (or of sildenafil, the active ingredient in SST-6007) in pregnant women. Thus, the risk of adverse fetal development from either or both of Ovaprene or SST-6007 may be greater than expected. Should either of our product candidates be shown to increase the risk of adverse fetal development, our ability to develop those or other product candidates would be substantially impaired, our business prospects and operations would be materially harmed, and we could also be subject to potential claims and lawsuits.. Our Topical Sildenafil product candidate may pose a greater risk to older or elderly women.. FSAD is a condition that impacts women of many ages, including older and elderly populations. Sildenafil, the active ingredient in SST-6607, has not been tested over long periods of time in older or elderly women. Older or elderly women may react differently and adversely to Topical Sildenafil and we have not yet thoroughly studied the topical or clinical pharmacology of this drug candidate in different patient populations. Should Topical Sildenafil show increased risk of adverse reactions, or signs thereof, in older or elderly women, our business prospects could be harmed.. We face intense competition from other medical device, biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies and our operating results will suffer if we fail to compete effectively.. The medical device, biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are intensely competitive. Significant competition among various contraceptive products already exists. Existing products have name recognition, are marketed by companies with established commercial infrastructures and with greater financial, technical and personnel resources than us. In order to compete and gain market share, any new product will need to demonstrate advantages in efficacy, convenience, tolerability or safety. In addition, new products developed by others could emerge as competitors to our product candidates and offer advantages and benefits over our product candidates. If we are not able to compete effectively against our competitors, our business will not grow and our financial condition and operations will suffer.. Our potential competitors include large, well-established pharmaceutical companies and specialty pharmaceutical companies, many of which have strong franchises in women's health. These companies include Merck & Co., Inc., Agile Therapeutics, Inc., Allergan, Inc., Bayer AG, Johnson & Johnson, Pfizer Inc. and Mylan Inc. Additionally, several generic manufacturers currently market and continue to introduce new generic contraceptives, including Sandoz International GmbH, Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Ltd., Lupin Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Amneal. Pharmaceuticals LLC. Other product candidates in development, if approved, could potentially compete with our products.. Ovaprene, SST-6007 and any future product candidates we may seek to develop, may cause serious adverse events or undesirable side effects which may delay or prevent marketing approval, or, if approval is received, require it to be taken off the market, require it to include safety warnings or otherwise limit our sales.. Serious adverse events or undesirable side effects from our current product candidates and any future product candidates we may seek to develop, could arise either during clinical development or, if approved, after approval and commercialization. The results of future clinical trials may show that a product candidate causes serious adverse events or undesirable side effects, which could interrupt, delay, or cause the termination of clinical trials, resulting in delay of, or failure to obtain, marketing approval from the FDA and other regulatory authorities.. If such serious adverse events or undesirable side effects occur:. •  during the clinical development phase, regulatory authorities may impose a clinical hold which could result in substantial delays and adversely impact our ability to continue development of the product;. •  during the commercial or post-marketing phase regulatory authorities may require the addition of specific warnings or contraindications to product labeling or field alerts to physicians and pharmacies;. •  we may be required to change the way the product is administered or the labeling of the product;. •  we may be required to conduct additional clinical trials with more patients or over longer periods of time than anticipated;. 23. •  we may be required to implement a risk minimization action plan, which could result in substantial cost increases and have a negative impact on our ability to commercialize the product;. •  we may be required to limit the patients who can receive the product;. •  we may be subject to promotional and marketing limitations on the product;. •  sales of the product may decrease significantly;. •  regulatory authorities may require us to take an approved product off the market;. •  we may be subject to litigation or product liability claims; and. •  our reputation may suffer.. Any of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of current or future product candidates, or could substantially increase commercialization costs and expenses, which in turn could delay or prevent us from generating significant revenues from product sales.. If we fail to enter into strategic relationships or collaborations to supplement our internal efforts, our business, financial condition, commercialization prospects and results of operation may be materially adversely affected.. Our expected strategy with respect to the development and potential commercialization of current and any future product candidates is to supplement our internal efforts with third-party collaborations. We face significant competition in seeking appropriate collaborators. Collaborations are complex and time-consuming arrangements to negotiate and document.. Our success in entering into a definitive agreement for any collaboration will depend upon, among other things, our assessment of the collaborator's resources and expertise, the terms and conditions of the proposed collaboration and the proposed collaborator's evaluation of a number of factors. Those factors may include the design and outcomes of the clinical studies, the likelihood of approval by regulatory authorities, the potential market for the product, the costs and complexities of manufacturing and delivering such products to customers, the potential of competing products, the strength of the intellectual property and industry and market conditions generally. The collaborator may also consider alternative products or technologies for similar indications that may be available to collaborate on and whether such collaboration could be more attractive than the one with us for our products or product candidates.. Any potential collaboration agreement into which we might enter may call for licensing or cross-licensing of potentially blocking patents, know-how or other intellectual property. Due to the potential overlap of data, know-how and intellectual property rights, there can be no assurance that one of our collaborators will not dispute its right to use, license or distribute such data, know-how or other intellectual property rights, and this may potentially lead to disputes, liability or termination of the collaboration.. We may also be restricted under existing and future collaboration agreements from entering into agreements on certain terms with other potential collaborators and may not be able to negotiate collaborations on a timely basis, on acceptable terms, or at all. If that were to occur, we may have to curtail the development of a particular product, reduce or delay our development program, delay commercialization, reduce the scope of sales or marketing activities, or increase expenditures and undertake development or commercialization activities at our own expense. If we elect to fund development or commercialization activities on our own, we will need to obtain additional capital, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Absent sufficient funds, we may not be able to commercialize a product candidate. If we enter into a collaboration agreement regarding a product or product candidate, we could be subject to, among other things, the following risks, each of which may materially harm our business, commercialization prospects and financial condition:. •  we may not be able to control the amount and timing of resources that the collaborator devotes to the product development program;. •  we may experience financial difficulties and thus not commit sufficient financial resources to the product development program;. •  we may be required to relinquish important rights to the collaborator such as marketing, distribution and intellectual property rights;. •  a collaborator could move forward with a competing product developed either independently or in collaboration with third parties, including our competitors;. 24. •  a collaborator could terminate the agreement (for convenience if permitted) or for our breach; or. •  business combinations or significant changes in a collaborator's business strategy may adversely affect our willingness to complete our obligations under any arrangement.. The contraceptive market includes many generic products and the trend is expected to continue, making introduction of a branded contraceptive difficult and expensive.. The proportion of the U.S. market that is made up of generic products has been increasing over time. In 2016, approximately 83% of the prescription volume and approximately 43% of sales of combined hormonal contraceptives in the United States were generated by generic products. If this trend continues, it may be more difficult to introduce Ovaprene, if approved, or any future approved contraceptive product candidate we may develop, as a branded contraceptive, at a price that will maximize our revenue and profits. Also, there may be additional marketing costs to introduce Ovaprene in order to overcome the trend towards generics and to gain access to reimbursement by payors. If we are unable to introduce Ovaprene or any future approved contraceptive product candidate at a price that is commensurate with that of current branded contraceptive products, or we are unable to gain reimbursement from payors for Ovaprene, or if patients are unwilling to pay any price differential between Ovaprene and a generic contraceptive, our revenues will be limited.. Changes in health care laws and regulations may eliminate current requirements that health insurance plans cover and reimburse FDA-cleared or approved contraceptive products without cost sharing, which could reduce demand for branded products such as Ovaprene and lead to a preference for generic options. If the out-of-pocket costs for Ovaprene are deemed by women to be high, a commercial market may never develop.. We cannot be certain that third party reimbursement will be available for Ovaprene, after it achieves regulatory approval, and if reimbursement is available, the amount of any such reimbursement. The ACA and subsequent regulations enacted by the Department of Health and Human Services, or DHHS, require health plans to provide coverage for women's preventive care, including all forms of FDA-cleared or approved contraception, without imposing any cost sharing on the plan beneficiary. These regulations ensure that women who wish to use an approved form of contraception may request it from their doctors and their health insurance plan must cover all costs associated with such products. These regulations may be modified, repealed, or otherwise invalidated, in whole or in part. For example, certain members of the U.S. Federal Government have attempted and are continuing to attempt to repeal the ACA and corresponding regulations, which would likely eliminate the requirement for health plans to cover women's preventive care without cost sharing. Even if the ACA is not repealed, the DHHS regulations to specifically enforce the preventive health coverage mandate could be repealed or modified under the Trump Administration, which in 2017 altered the mandate to allow certain employers and insurers to opt out of birth control coverage for religious or moral reasons. We cannot predict the timing or impact of any future rulemaking or changes in the law. Any repeal or elimination of the preventive care coverage rules would mean that women seeking to use prescribed forms of contraceptives may have to pay some portion of the cost for such products out-of-pocket, which could deter some women from using prescription contraceptive products, such as Ovaprene, at all. As a result, we expect that our success will be dependent on the willingness of patients to pay out-of-pocket for Ovaprene in the event that either they do not have insurance or their insurance requires payment of a portion of Ovaprene by the patient, thus increasing the patient's overall cost to use Ovaprene. This could reduce market demand for Ovaprene or any other contraceptive candidates we may seek to develop, if and when they receive FDA approval, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and prospects.. As no FDA-approved treatments for FSAD currently exist, there is no precedent to help assess whether health insurance plans will cover SST-6007.. We cannot be certain that third party reimbursement will be available for SST-6007. Even if reimbursement becomes available, the amount of such reimbursement may not serve to make our product affordable to women and profitable to us. Insurers may deem SST-6007 to be a life-style drug and decide not to provide reimbursement. Today, many health insurance plans provide reimbursement for male sexual arousal medications. However, we cannot predict whether they will continue to do so or whether they will do so for female sexual arousal treatments as well. In addition, the safety and efficacy data from our clinical trials may impact whether SST-6007 will become eligible for insurance coverage, and if it does, the level of such reimbursement. In an environment of rapidly rising health care costs, insurers have been looking for ways to reduce costs, which could make it difficult for new therapies to gain coverage if they are not deemed critical or essential to gain coverage. If SST-6007 fails to obtain insurance coverage, or if the patient's share of the cost is deemed to be expensive, a market may never develop for SST-6007, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and prospects.. 25. Even if we obtain regulatory approval in the United States or elsewhere to market any of our products, the reimbursement environment at the time of approval may hurt our financial prospects.. Third-party payers and administrators, including state Medicaid programs, Medicare, and the Veterans Health Administration, have recently been challenging the prices charged for pharmaceutical and medical device products. The United States government and other third-party payers are increasingly limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for new drugs and medical devices. Third-party insurance coverage may not be available to patients for the products we seek to commercialize. If such government and other third-party payers do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement, health care providers may not prescribe our products or patients may ask their health care providers to prescribe competing products with more favorable reimbursement.. Managed care organizations and other private insurers frequently adopt their own payment or reimbursement reductions. Consolidation among managed care organizations has increased the negotiating power of these entities. Private third-party payers, as well as governments, increasingly employ formularies to control costs by negotiating discounted prices in exchange for formulary inclusion. Failure to obtain timely or adequate pricing or formulary placement for the products we seek to commercialize or obtaining such pricing or placement at unfavorable pricing levels, could materially adversely affect our business, financial conditions, results of operation and prospects.. The pharmaceutical and medical device industries are highly regulated and subject to various fraud and abuse laws, including, without limitation, the U.S. federal Anti-Kickback Statute, the U.S. federal False Claims Act and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.. Health care fraud and abuse regulations are complex, and even minor irregularities can potentially give rise to claims that a statute or prohibition has been violated. The laws that may affect our ability to operate include, among other things:. •  the federal health care programs' anti-kickback law (and comparable state laws), which prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service for which payment may be made under federal health care programs such as the Medicare, Medicaid and Veterans Health programs;. •  federal and state false claims laws which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, Veterans Affairs, or other third-party payers that are false or fraudulent;. •  HIPAA (and similar state laws), which mandates, among other things, the adoption of standards to enhance the efficiency and simplify the administration of the health care system, as well as to protect the confidentiality of protected health information and electronic protected health information;. •  The ACA's reporting requirements for pharmaceutical, biologic and device manufacturers regarding payments or other transfers of value made to physicians and teaching hospitals, including investment interests in such manufacturers held by physicians and their immediate family members during the preceding calendar year; and. •  the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which prohibits corrupt payments, gifts or transfers of value to non-U.S. officials.. The scope and enforcement of these laws is uncertain and subject to rapid change in the current environment of health care reform, especially in light of the lack of applicable precedent and regulations. Regulatory authorities might challenge our current or future activities under these laws. Any such challenge could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, efforts to ensure that our business arrangements with third parties will comply with these laws will involve substantial costs. Any investigation of us or the third parties with whom we contract, regardless of the outcome, would be costly and time consuming.. Our success relies on third party suppliers, manufacturers and distributors, including multiple single source suppliers and manufacturers. We have no internal sales, marketing or distribution capabilities. Any failure by such third parties could negatively impact our business and our ability to develop and market any approved products.. We have a very small number of employees and no personnel dedicated to marketing, manufacturing or sales and distribution. If we receive the requisite regulatory approvals for one or more products, we expect to rely on third parties to manufacture such products, and as such we will be subject to inherent uncertainties related to product safety, availability and security. For example, our agreement with ADVA-Tec limits our ability to engage a manufacturing source for Ovaprene other than ADVA-Tec following regulatory approval. If ADVA-Tec fails to produce sufficient ring quantities to. 26. meet commercial demand, our ability to become profitable could be adversely impacted. To date, ADVA-Tec has only produced a small number of rings for clinical testing. Furthermore, for some of the key raw materials and components of Ovaprene, we have only a single source of supply, and alternate sources of supply may not be readily available.. Under the terms of the SST license agreement, Strategic Science will be responsible for obtaining supplies of SST-6007 for the Phase 2 clinical trials expected to be conducted in the United States. Thereafter, we will be responsible for obtaining pre-clinical, clinical and commercial supplies of SST-6007. Both companies will need to rely on third party suppliers to provide the quantities required.. Moreover, we do not expect to control the manufacturing processes for the production of any current or future products or product candidates, all of which must be made in accordance with relevant regulations, and includes, among other things, quality control, quality assurance, compliance with cGMP and the maintenance of records and documentation. In the future, it is possible that our suppliers or manufacturers may fail to comply with FDA regulations, the requirements of other regulatory bodies or our own requirements, all of which would result in suspension or prevention of commercialization and/or manufacturing of our products or product candidates, including Ovaprene and SST-6007, suspension of ongoing research, disqualification of data or other enforcement actions such as product recall, injunctions, civil penalties or criminal prosecutions against us. Furthermore, we may be unable to replace any supplier or manufacturer with an alternate supplier or manufacturer on a commercially reasonable or timely basis, or at all.. If we were to outsource product distribution for any current or future product candidates, this outsourcing would also be subject to uncertainties related to these services including the quality of such services. For example, distributors may not have the capacity to supply sufficient product if demand increases rapidly or which may be subject to issues of force majeure. Further, we would be dependent on the distributors to ensure that the distribution process accords with relevant regulations, which includes, among other things, compliance with current good documentation practices and the maintenance of records and documentation. Failure to comply with these requirements could result in significant remedial action, including improvement of facilities, suspension of distribution or recall of product. Furthermore, we may be unable to replace any such distributor with an alternate distributor on a commercially reasonable or timely basis, or at all.. If we were to experience an unexpected loss of supply of, or if we fail to maintain relationships with our current suppliers, manufacturers, distributors or regulatory service providers, we may not be able to complete development of Ovaprene, SST-6007 or any other future product candidates, or to commercialize or market any products following approval, which would have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results from operation and prospects. Third-party suppliers, manufacturers, distributors or regulatory service providers may not perform as agreed or may terminate their agreements with us. Any significant problem that our suppliers, manufacturers, distributors or regulatory service providers experience could delay or interrupt our supply of materials or product candidates until the supplier, manufacturer, distributor or regulatory service provider cures the problem or until we locate, negotiate for, validate and receive FDA approval for an alternative provider, if one is available.. Additionally, any failure by us to forecast demand for finished product, including Ovaprene and SST-6007, and failure by us to ensure our distributors have appropriate capacity to distribute such quantities of finished product, could result in an interruption in the supply of certain products and a decline in sales of that product.. If we were to experience an unexpected loss of supply of, or if any supplier or manufacturer were unable to meet its demand for our product candidates, we could experience delays in research, planned clinical trials or commercialization. We might be unable to find alternative suppliers or manufacturers with FDA approval, of acceptable quality, in the appropriate volumes and at an acceptable cost. The long transition periods necessary to switch manufacturers and suppliers would significantly delay our timelines, which would materially adversely affect our business, financial conditions, results of operation and prospects.. We intend to rely on third-parties for the execution of certain development programs for our current and any future product candidates. Failure of these third parties to provide services of a suitable quality and within acceptable timeframes may cause the delay or failure of our development programs.. We intend to employ a business model that relies on the outsourcing of certain functions, tests and services to CROs, medical institutions and other specialist providers. We will rely on these third parties for quality assurance, clinical monitoring, clinical data management and regulatory expertise. In terms of Ovaprene, we have identified a CRO to run all aspects of the PCT clinical trial, and we also intend to engage a CRO for all future clinical trial requirements needed to file for regulatory approvals. We expect to rely on third parties and CROs to perform similar functions for SST-6007 and any future candidates. There is no assurance that such organizations or individuals will be able to provide the functions, tests or services as agreed upon, or to the requisite quality. We will rely on the efforts of these organizations and individuals and could suffer significant delays in the development of its product or processes should they fail to perform as expected.. 27. There is also no assurance that these third parties will not make errors in the design, management or retention of our data or data systems. Any failures by such third parties could lead to a loss of data, which in turn could lead to delays in clinical development and obtaining regulatory approval. Third parties may not pass FDA or other regulatory audits, which could delay or prohibit regulatory approval. In addition, the cost of such services could significantly increase over time. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, regulatory approval of current and future product candidates, may be delayed, prevented or cost significantly more than expected, all of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions, results of operation and prospects.. The commercial success of Ovaprene, SST-6007 and any future product candidates will significantly depend on the label claims that the FDA or other regulatory authorities approve for the product.. The commercial success of any of our product candidates will significantly depend upon our ability to obtain approval from the FDA or other regulatory authorities of product labeling containing adequate information regarding a product candidate's expected features or benefits. Failure to achieve such approval will prevent or substantially limit our ability to advertise and promote such features and benefits in order to differentiate Ovaprene, SST-6007 or any future product candidate from competing products. This failure would have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operation and prospects.. Even if we receive approval from the FDA in the United States to market our current or any future product candidates we may seek to develop, we may fail to receive similar approval outside the United States.. In order to market a new product outside the United States, we must obtain separate marketing approvals in each jurisdiction and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries, including clinical trials, commercial sales, pricing manufacture distribution and safety requirements. The time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from, and be longer than, that required to obtain FDA approval. The marketing approval process in other countries may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval in the United States, as well as other risks. Further, we may be unable to obtain rights to the necessary clinical data in other countries and may be required to develop our own. In addition, in many countries outside the United States, a new product must receive pricing and reimbursement approval prior to commercialization. This can result in substantial delays in these countries. Additionally, the product labeling requirements outside the United States may be different and inconsistent with the United States labeling requirements, negatively affecting our ability to market our products in countries outside the United States.. In addition, we may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of marketing approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution if we fail to comply with applicable foreign regulatory requirements. In such an event, our ability to market to our full target market will be reduced and our ability to realize the full market potential of our product candidates will be harmed, which could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation and prospects.. Our business may be adversely affected by unfavorable macroeconomic conditions.. Various macroeconomic factors could adversely affect our business, our results of operations and financial condition, including changes in inflation, interest rates and overall economic conditions and uncertainties, including those resulting from political instability (including workforce uncertainty) and the current and future conditions in the global financial markets.. Interest rates and the ability to access credit markets could also adversely affect the ability of patients, payers and distributors to purchase, pay for and effectively distribute our product if and when approved. Similarly, these macroeconomic factors could affect the ability of our current or potential future third-party manufacturers, sole source or single source suppliers, licensors or licensees to remain in business, or otherwise manufacture or supply our product candidate. Failure by any of them to remain in business could affect our ability to manufacture Ovaprene or any of our future product candidates.. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property. Our failure to adequately protect or enforce our, or our licensor's, intellectual property rights could materially harm our proprietary position in the marketplace or prevent the commercialization of our current and potential future products.. Our success depends in part on our ability, and the ability of our licensor(s), to obtain and maintain protection in the United States and other countries for the intellectual property covering or incorporated into our technologies and products. The patents and patent applications relied upon by us are licensed to us by third parties. Our ability, or the ability of our licensor(s), to protect our product candidates from unauthorized use or infringement by third parties depends substantially on our abilities and the abilities of such licensors to obtain and maintain, or license, valid and enforceable patents. Due to evolving legal standards relating to the patentability, validity and enforceability of patents covering. 28. pharmaceutical inventions and the scope of claims made under these patents, our ability to obtain or enforce patents is uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles are unresolved.. Our patent strategy for the protection of Ovaprene includes in-licensing a patent family from ADVA-Tec, whose last claim expires in August 2028, but which could potentially be extended to August 2033 in the United States and Europe. Further, patent prosecution for the intellectual property incorporated into Ovaprene is entirely controlled by ADVA-Tec and we have little, if any, influence or control over such patent prosecution.. Our patent strategy for the protection of SST-6007 includes in-licensing a patent family from Strategic Science, whose last claim expires in December 2031, but which could potentially be extended under the Hatch-Waxman Act in the United States.. With respect to patents related to SST-6007, Strategic Science will have the sole right, but not the obligation, to prepare, file, prosecute and maintain such patents. We will be responsible for the costs incurred to maintain and prosecute all such patents and we will be kept informed of all strategies. However, we will have little if any, influence or control over the implementation of the patent strategy.. There is a substantial backlog of patent applications at the United States Patent and Trademark Office (\"USPTO\"). There can be no assurance that any patent applications relating to our products or methods will be issued as patents or, if issued, that the patents will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or that the rights granted thereunder will provide a competitive advantage. We may not be able to obtain patent rights on products, treatment methods or manufacturing processes that we may develop or to which we may obtain license or other rights. Even if we do obtain patents, rights under any issued patents may not provide us with sufficient protection for our product candidates or provide sufficient protection to afford us a commercial advantage against our competitors or their competitive products or processes. It is possible that no patents will be issued from any pending or future patent applications owned by us or licensed to us. Others may challenge, seek to invalidate, infringe or circumvent any patents we own or license, including the patents we have licensed from ADVA-Tec and Strategic Science and any other patents we may license in the future. Conversely, in the future we may be required to initiate litigation against third parties to enforce our intellectual property rights. The defense and prosecution of patent and intellectual property claims are both costly and time consuming, even if the outcome is favorable to us. Any adverse outcome could subject us to significant liabilities, require us to license disputed rights from others or require us to cease selling our future products.. In addition, many other organizations are engaged in research and product development efforts that may overlap with our products. Such organizations may currently have, or may obtain in the future, legally blocking proprietary rights, including patent rights, in one or more products or methods we are developing or considering for development. These rights may prevent us from commercializing technology, or they may require us to obtain a license from the organizations to use the technology. We may not be able to obtain any such licenses that may be required on reasonable financial terms, if at all, and we cannot be sure that the patents underlying any such licenses will be valid or enforceable. As with other companies in the pharmaceutical industry, we are subject to the risk that persons located in other countries will engage in development, marketing or sales activities of products that would infringe our intellectual property rights if such activities were conducted in the United States.. 29. Our patents and intellectual property also may not afford protection against competitors with similar technology. We may not have identified all patents, published applications or published literature that affect our business either by blocking our ability to commercialize our product candidates, by preventing the patentability of our products or by covering the same or similar technologies that may affect our ability to market or license our product candidates. Many companies have encountered difficulties in protecting and defending their intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions. If we encounter such difficulties or are otherwise precluded from effectively protecting our intellectual property rights in either the United States or foreign jurisdictions, our business prospects could be substantially harmed. In addition, because of funding limitations and our limited cash resources, we may not be able to devote the resources that we might otherwise desire to prepare or pursue patent applications, either at all or in all jurisdictions in which we might desire to obtain patents, or to maintain already-issued patents.. The patents and the patent applications covering SST-6007 are limited to specific topical formulations, processes and uses of sildenafil, and our market opportunity may be limited by the lack of patent protection for the active ingredient itself and other formulations and delivery technology and systems that may be developed by competitors.. The active ingredient in our product candidate for FSAD, SST-6007, is sildenafil. Patent protection for this molecule has expired and generic products are available for male erectile dysfunction. As a result, a competitor that obtains the requisite regulatory approvals could offer products with the same active ingredient in a different formulation so long as the competitor does not infringe any process, use or formulation patents that we have developed.. Competitors may seek to develop and market competing formulations that may not be covered by our patents and patent applications. The commercial opportunity for SST-6007 could be significantly harmed if competitors are able to develop and commercialize alternative formulations of sildenafil.. We may become involved in patent litigation or other intellectual property proceedings relating to our future product approvals, which could result in liability for damages or delay or stop our development and commercialization efforts.. The pharmaceutical industry has been characterized by significant litigation and other proceedings regarding patents, patent applications, trademarks and other intellectual property rights. The situations in which we may become party to such litigation or proceedings may include any third parties initiating litigation claiming that our products infringe their patent or other intellectual property rights, or that one of our trademarks or trade names infringes the third party's trademark rights; in such case, we would need to defend against such proceedings. The costs of resolving any patent litigation or other intellectual property proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Many of our potential competitors will be able to sustain the cost of such litigation and proceedings more effectively than us because of their substantially greater resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other intellectual property proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace. Patent litigation and other intellectual property proceedings may also consume significant management time.. In the event that a competitor infringes upon our patent or other intellectual property rights, including any rights licensed by us, enforcing those rights may be costly, difficult and time-consuming. Even if successful, litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend our patents against challenge could be expensive and time-consuming and could divert our management's attention. We may not have sufficient resources to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend our patent or other intellectual property rights against a challenge. If we were unsuccessful in enforcing and protecting our intellectual property rights and protecting our products, it could materially harm our business.. With respect to Ovaprene, ADVA-Tec has the right, in certain instances, to control the defense against any infringement litigation arising from the manufacture or development (but not the sale) of Ovaprene. While our license agreement with ADVA-Tec requires ADVA-Tec to indemnify us for certain losses arising from these claims, this indemnification may not be sufficient to adequately compensate us for any related losses or the potential loss of our ability to manufacture and develop Ovaprene.. With respect to SST-6007, we have the initial right to enforce the applicable licensed patents against infringers in the field of use where a third party is exploiting a topically applied pharmaceutical product that contains at least one of the same active pharmaceutical ingredients as a licensed product, and Strategic Science will provide us with reasonable assistance (excluding financial assistance), at our expense. We also have the initial right to defend any claim initiated by any third party alleging that a licensed product developed or commercialized under the SST license agreement has infringed any third party intellectual property rights. While the SST license agreement requires Strategic Science to indemnify us for certain losses arising from these claims, this indemnification may not be sufficient to adequately compensate us for any related losses or the potential loss of our ability to manufacture and develop SST-6007.. Our exclusive, in-license agreements covering the critical patents and related intellectual property related to Ovaprene and SST-6007 impose significant monetary obligations and other requirements that may adversely affect our ability to. 30. execute our business plan. The termination of either of these in-license agreements could prevent us from developing and commercializing our drug candidates and may harm our business.. Our license agreements with ADVA-Tec and Strategic Science include intellectual property rights to Ovaprene and SST-6007, respectively. These agreements require us, as a condition to the maintenance of our license and other rights, to make milestone and royalty payments and satisfy certain performance obligations. Our obligations under these in-license agreements impose significant financial and logistical burdens upon our ability to carry out our business plan. Furthermore, if we do not meet such obligations in a timely manner, and, in the case of milestone payment requirements, if we were unable to obtain an extension of the deadlines for meeting such payment requirements, we could lose the rights to these proprietary technologies, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Further, there is no assurance that the existing ADVA-Tec and Strategic Science license agreements covering the rights related to Ovaprene and SST-6007, respectively, will not be terminated due to a material breach of the underlying agreements. With regards to Ovaprene, this would include a failure on our part to make milestone and royalty payments, our failure to obtain applicable approvals from governmental authorities, or the loss of rights to the underlying intellectual property by any such licensors. With regards to SST-6007, this would include a failure to assume responsibility for suspended development activities within the requisite period, our failure to use commercially reasonable efforts in performing development activities, or the failure on our part to make milestone and royalty payments. Moreover, because some of our rights to Ovaprene and SST-6007 are sublicensed pursuant to underlying agreements, there is no assurance that the existing license agreements covering the rights related to Ovaprene and SST-6007 will not be terminated due to termination of the underlying agreements, or due to the loss of rights to the underlying intellectual property by ADVA-Tec's or Strategic Science's licensors. There is no assurance that we will be able to renew or renegotiate license agreements on acceptable terms if our license agreements with ADVA-Tec or Strategic Science or the underlying agreements are terminated. We cannot guarantee that any license agreement will be enforceable. The termination these license agreements or our inability to enforce our rights under these license agreements would materially and adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize Ovaprene and SST-6007.. Risks Related to Our Securities. The price of our common stock may be volatile and could subject us to securities litigation, including class-action.. The stock market in general, and the market for biopharmaceutical companies in particular, have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The stocks of small cap companies in the biotechnology sector like ours tend to be highly volatile. We expect that the price of our common stock will be highly volatile for the next several years as we undertake studies and trials to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates. The market price for our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including:. •  the results of our efforts to discover, develop, acquire or in-license product candidates or products, if any;. •  failure or discontinuation of any of our research programs;. •  actual or anticipated results from, and any delays in, any future clinical trials, as well as results of regulatory reviews relating to the approval of any product candidates we may choose to develop;. •  the level of expenses related to any product candidates that we may choose to develop or clinical development programs we may choose to pursue;. •  commencement or termination of any collaboration or licensing arrangement;. •  disputes or other developments relating to proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters and our ability to obtain patent protection for our technologies;. •  announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures and capital commitments;. •  additions or departures of key scientific or management personnel;. •  variations in our financial results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to us;. •  new products, product candidates or new uses for existing products introduced or announced by our competitors, and the timing of these introductions or announcements;. •  results of clinical trials of product candidates of our competitors;. 31. •  general economic and market conditions and other factors that may be unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors, including changes in market valuations of similar companies;. •  regulatory or legal developments in the United States and other countries;. •  changes in the structure of health care payment systems;. •  conditions or trends in the biotechnology and biopharmaceutical industries;. •  actual or anticipated changes in earnings estimates, development timelines or recommendations by securities analysts;. •  announcement or expectation of additional financing efforts;. •  sales of common stock by us or our stockholders in the future, as well as the overall trading volume of our common stock; and. •  the other factors described in this \"Risk Factors\" section.. In the past, following periods of volatility in companies' stock prices, securities class-action litigation has often been instituted against such companies. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management's attention and resources, which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition.. Our executive officers and directors and their affiliates own a significant percentage of our issued and outstanding common stock and are able to exercise significant influence over matters submitted to stockholders for approval.. As of March 13, 2018, our executive officers and directors and their affiliates beneficially owned approximately 28% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, if these stockholders were to choose to act together, they could exert a significant degree of influence over matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, as well as our management and affairs. For example, these persons, if they choose to act together, could have significant influence on the election of directors and approval of any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets, including a transaction on terms that other stockholders may desire.. A significant portion of our total outstanding shares of common stock may be sold into the public market at any point, which could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well.. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could occur at any time, either by us or our stockholders. For example, we sold an aggregate of 375,000 shares of our common stock in at-the-market offerings that closed in January and February 2018, and we sold 5.0 million shares of our common stock and warrants to purchase up to 3.5 million shares of our common stock in an underwritten public offering that closed in February 2018. Additionally, the Company granted the underwriters a 30-day option to purchase up to an additional 750,000 shares of common stock and warrants to purchase up to 525,000 shares of common stock directly from us at a price of $2.05 per common share and accompanying warrant. Should the underwriter elect to cover overallotments through open market purchases, then we would be required to issue additional warrants to the underwriter at a purchase price of $0.001 per warrant share. The overallotment option was exercised by Roth on February 15, 2018 to purchase 220,500 Warrant Shares at a purchase price of $0.001 per Warrant Share. These sales, or the perception in the market that we or holders of a large number of shares intend to sell shares, could reduce the market price of our common stock. Our outstanding shares of common stock may be freely sold in the public market at any time to the extent permitted by Rules 144 and 701 under the Securities Act or to the extent such shares have already been registered under the Securities Act and are held by non-affiliates.. As of December 31, 2017, there were 539,896 shares of our common stock subject to outstanding options, 529,747 of which have been registered under the Securities Act on Form S-8. The shares so registered can be freely sold in the public market after being issued to the option holder upon exercise, except to the extent they are held by our affiliates, in which case such shares will become eligible for sale in the public market as permitted by Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Furthermore, as of December 31, 2017, there were 30,502 shares of our common stock subject to outstanding warrants to purchase common stock. To the extent these warrants are exercised, the shares underlying these warrants may be sold in the public market in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act.  As mentioned above, in February 2018, we sold warrants to purchase up to 3.7 million shares of our common stock in an underwritten public offering. To the extent these warrants are exercised, the shares underlying these warrants may be immediately sold in the public market. Moreover, holders of approximately 6.3 million shares of our common stock have registration rights that, if exercised, would require us to register the resale of their shares under the Securities Act.. 32. The sale of our common stock through Wainwright may cause substantial dilution to our existing stockholders, and such sales, or the anticipation of such sales, may cause the price of our common stock to decline.. In January 2018, we entered into a common stock sales agreement with H.C. Wainwright & Co., LLC, or Wainwright, in connection with an \"at the market\" offering, or the Wainwright Offering, under which, from time to time, we may offer and sell up to an aggregate of $10.0 million of shares of our common stock. As of March 13, 2018, up to $8.9 million remained available for us to sell pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Wainwright Offering. Although we have the right to control whether we sell any shares, if at all, under the Wainwright Offering, and the timing and amount of sales of our shares in the Wainwright Offering, we are subject to certain restrictions, including, without limitation, (i) our inability to sell, during any 12-month period, securities having an aggregate market value of not more than one-third of our public float, pursuant to General Instruction I.B.6 to SEC Form S-3, and (ii) our inability to sell any of our securities until May 15, 2018, without prior written consent from Roth Capital Partners, LLC, pursuant to the terms of the underwritten offering we closed in February 2018. Accordingly, we may not be able to sell shares of our common stock through the Wainwright Offering when we desire. There can be no assurance that we will choose to sell additional stock under the Wainwright Offering, or if we choose to sell stock that we will be able to sell the remaining $8.9 million of common stock contemplated under the Wainwright Offering. Additionally, our sales of shares through the Wainwright Offering may result in substantial dilution to the interests of other holders of our common stock, and such sales, or the anticipation of such sales, may cause the trading price of our common stock to decline.. The exercise of our outstanding options and warrants may result in significant dilution to our stockholders.. As of December 31, 2017, we had issued and outstanding options exercisable into 539,896 shares of our common stock and warrants to purchase up to 30,502 shares of our common stock. We subsequently sold warrants to purchase up to 3.5 million shares of our common stock in an underwritten public offering that closed in February 2018, and the underwriter shortly thereafter exercised its overallotment option to purchase additional warrants to purchase 525,000 shares of our common stock, referred to collectively as the February Warrants. Exercise of our outstanding options and/or warrants may result in significant dilution to our then-existing stockholders.. The warrants we issued in February 2018 contain anti-dilution provisions that could prevent us from obtaining additional financing.. The February Warrants include price-based anti-dilution provisions. The exercise price of the February Warrants will be adjusted downward if we issue or sell (or are deemed to issue or sell) securities at a price that is less than the exercise price in effect immediately prior to such issuance or sale (or deemed issuance or sale), before the expiration of the term of the February Warrants. In that case, the new exercise price of the February Warrants would equal the price at which the new securities are issued or sold (or are deemed to have been issued or sold). In addition, if we issue, sell or enter into any agreement to issue or sell securities at a price which varies or may vary with the market price of the shares of our common stock, the holders of the February Warrants shall have the right to substitute such variable price for the exercise price of the February Warrants then in effect. We expect that over time we will need to obtain additional funding to successfully execute our current operating plan and to continue the development of our current product candidates. The above anti-dilution provisions may make it more difficult for us to obtain such additional financing because the holders of the February Warrants may elect to exercise the February Warrants if and when we issue securities at a price less than the exercise price of the February Warrants then in effect, which would result in substantial dilution to any new purchaser of our securities and likely decrease the value of our common stock. Unless we obtain additional financing that values our securities at a price equal to or greater than the exercise price of the February Warrants then in effect, any potential new purchaser of our securities may value our common stock in such a manner that takes into account the number of shares of our common stock issued and outstanding immediately following the exercise of all the February Warrants.. We may issue preferred stock with terms that could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of our common stock.. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue, without stockholder approval, one or more series of preferred stock having such designation, powers, privileges, preferences, including preferences over our common stock respecting dividends and distributions, terms of redemption and relative participation, optional, or other rights, if any, of the shares of each such series of preferred stock and any qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, as our Board of Directors may determine. The terms of one or more series of preferred stock could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of our common stock. For example, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we could assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of our common stock.. 33. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" and the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies may make our common stock less attractive to investors.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act, and may remain an emerging growth company through 2019. For so long as we remain an emerging growth company, we will be permitted to and intend to rely on exemptions from certain disclosure requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies. These exemptions include:. •  not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements in the assessment of its internal control over financial reporting;. •  not being required to comply with any requirement that may be adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board regarding mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditor's report providing additional information about the audit and the financial statements;. •  reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation; and. •  exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved.. We may choose to take advantage of some, but not all, of the available exemptions. We cannot predict whether investors will find our common stock less attractive if we rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and the price of our common stock may be more volatile.. In addition, the JOBS Act also provides that an emerging growth company may take advantage of an extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards. This allows an emerging growth company to delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. We have irrevocably elected not to utilize this exemption from new or revised accounting standards and, therefore, we will be subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not emerging growth companies.. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our capital stock in the foreseeable future; capital appreciation, if any, will be your sole source of gain as a holder of our common stock.. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on shares of our capital stock. We currently plan to retain all of our future earnings, if any, and all cash received from the proceeds of the offerings we closed in January and February 2018 and from the sale of our Dynamic Tumor Targeting\231 Platform in July 2017 to finance the growth and development of our business. Accordingly, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be the sole source of gain for our common stockholders for the foreseeable future.. There is no assurance that we will continue satisfying the listing requirements of the Nasdaq Capital Market.. Even though our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market, we cannot assure you that we will be able to satisfy the ongoing listing requirements of the Nasdaq Capital Market. For example, there is no assurance that our common stock will continue to have a bid price of at least $1.00 per share, which is the minimum bid price under such continued listing requirements, or that we will be able to satisfy other quantitative continued listing requirements. If our common stock is de-listed from the Nasdaq Capital Market, our stockholders could incur material adverse consequences such as reduced liquidity for their securities and reduced market prices for their securities. Following such de-listing, we could encounter increased difficulty in issuing additional securities at an attractive price, or at all, in order to fund our operations.. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation, our by-laws or Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of the Company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock.. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws or Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that our stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock, thereby depressing the market price of our common stock. In addition, because our board of directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions might frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove the current. 34. management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors. Among other things, these provisions:. •  establish a classified board of directors such that all members of the board are not elected at one time;. •  allow the authorized number of directors to be changed only by resolution of the board of directors;. •  limit the manner in which stockholders can remove directors from the board;. •  establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board or for proposing matters that can be acted on at stockholder meetings;. •  require that stockholder actions must be effected at a duly called stockholder meeting and prohibit actions by stockholders by written consent;. •  limit who may call a special meeting of stockholders;. •  authorize the board to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to institute a \"poison pill\" that would work to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer, effectively preventing acquisitions that have not been approved by the board; and. •  require the approval of the holders of at least 75% of the votes that all stockholders would be entitled to cast to amend or repeal certain provisions of the charter or bylaws.. In addition, we are governed by Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporate Law, which prohibits a publicly-held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person which together with its affiliates owns, or within the last three years has owned, 15% of its voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. This could discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us, whether or not it is desired by, or beneficial to, our stockholders.. If securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they publish negative evaluations of our stock, the price of our stock could decline.. The trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. We do not have any control over these analysts. If one or more of the analysts covering our business downgrade their evaluations of our stock, the price of our common stock could decline. In addition, if one or more of these analysts cease coverage or fail to regularly publish reports on our business, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our common stock price or trading volume to decline."
