[1] "Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. We do not provide forecasts of our future financial performance. However, from time to time, information provided by us or statements made by our employees may contain “forward looking” information that involves risks and uncertainties. In particular, statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that are not historical facts (including, but not limited to statements contained in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K relating to liquidity and capital resources) may constitute forward looking statements and are made under the safe harbor provisions of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. We caution readers not to place undue reliance on any such forward looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. We disclaim any obligation, except as specifically required by law and the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, to publicly update or revise any such statements to reflect any change in our expectations or in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statements may be based, or that may affect the likelihood that actual results will differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. Our actual results of operations and financial condition have varied and may in the future vary significantly from those stated in any forward looking statements. Factors that may cause such differences include, without limitation, the risks, uncertainties and other information discussed below and within this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as the accuracy of our internal estimates of revenue and operating expense levels. The following discussion of our risk factors should be read in conjunction with the financial statements contained herein and related notes thereto. Such factors, among others, may have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 8. Risks Relating to our Business. A Weak Global Economy and Softening in the Computer Software Market May Result in Decreased Revenues or Lower Revenue Growth Rates. The growth and profitability of our business depends on the overall demand for computer software and services, particularly in the financial services markets and other markets in which we compete. Tighter credit and negative financial news that may result from challenging economic conditions worldwide and in the U.S. have an adverse effect on capital spending by corporations, including the demand for computer software. Because our sales are primarily to major corporate customers, poor economic conditions may soften the demand for computer software and services which may result in decreased revenues, lower revenue growth rates and reduced profitability. In addition, a weak global economy may result in longer sales cycles, reduced, deferred or cancelled orders, or greater than anticipated uncollectible accounts receivables. In a weakened economy, we cannot be assured that we will be able to effectively promote future growth in our software and services revenues or operate profitably.. Our Dependence on our Principal Products, our Failure to Develop Enhanced or New Products and our Concentration of Customers within the Financial Sector May Have a Material Adverse Effect on our Business, Financial Condition or Results of Operations. Our future financial performance will depend in part on the successful introduction of new and enhanced versions of these products and development of new versions of these and other products and subsequent customer acceptance of such new and enhanced products. We are primarily dependent on our ability to successfully market and sell our self-service data preparation and visual data discovery products. Currently customers in the financial sector, and particularly in capital markets, comprise a significant portion of our customer base. Any factor adversely affecting the financial sector and capital markets in particular could adversely affect sales of our products within such sector, which could have a material adverse effect on us.. Fluctuations in Quarterly Operating Results Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on our Business, Financial Condition or Results of Operations. Our future operating results could vary substantially from quarter-to-quarter because of uncertainties and/or risks associated with such matters as current economic conditions, technological change, competition, delays in the introduction of new products or product enhancements, and market acceptance of those new products and product enhancements, and general market trends. In addition, as we focus on increasing enterprise sales to large customers, the timing of significant orders may cause fluctuations in quarterly operating results. Large enterprise sales arrangements often involve multiple elements and may require more complex accounting than the sales transactions we have entered into in the past, which also makes projecting future operating results more difficult. Historically, we have operated with minimal backlog of orders because our software products are generally shipped as orders are received. As a result, sales in any quarter are substantially dependent on orders booked and shipped in that quarter. Further, any increases in sales under our subscription sales model or cloud-enabled offering could result in decreased revenues over the short term. Because our staffing and operating expenses are based on anticipated revenue levels and a high percentage of our costs are fixed in the short-term, small variations in the timing of revenues can cause significant variations in operating results from quarter-to-quarter. In addition, at September 30, 2017, we had $4.9 million of unrecognized compensation costs related to RSUs, which are expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.26 years, which costs will have a negative effect on our profitability on a GAAP reporting basis. Because of these factors, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. We can give no assurance that we will not experience such variations in operating results in the future or that such variations will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 9. The Sales Cycle for our Enterprise Products is Long and Unpredictable, Particularly with Respect to Large Customers, and our Sales Efforts Require Considerable Time and Expense. Our operating results may fluctuate, in part, because of the resource intensive nature of our sales efforts, the length and variability of the sales cycle of our enterprise software licensing offerings and the short-term difficulty in adjusting our operating expenses. Our operating results depend in part on sales to large customers and conversions of users that have downloaded the desktop version of our Datawatch Monarch software into enterprise customers. The length of our sales cycle, from initial evaluation to delivery of and payment for the software license, varies substantially from customer to customer. It is difficult to predict exactly when, or even if, we will make a sale with a potential customer or if a user that has licensed desktop versions of our Datawatch Monarch software will upgrade to a larger server license. As a result, large individual sales may, in some cases, occur in quarters subsequent to those we anticipate, or not at all. The loss or delay of one or more large transactions in a quarter could impact our operating results for that quarter and any future quarters for which revenue from that transaction is delayed. As a result of these factors, it is difficult for us to forecast our revenues accurately in any quarter. Because a substantial portion of our expenses are relatively fixed in the short-term, our operating results will suffer if revenues fall below our expectations in a particular quarter, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline.. If we are Unable to Attract New Customers and Expand Sales to Existing Customers, our Growth Could be Slower than we Expect and our Business May Be Harmed.. Our future growth depends in part upon increasing our customer base. Our ability to achieve significant growth in revenues in the future will depend, in large part, upon the effectiveness of our marketing efforts, both domestically and internationally, and our ability to attract new customers. If we fail to attract new customers and maintain and expand those customer relationships, our revenues will grow more slowly than expected and our business operations and financial results will be harmed.. Our future growth also depends upon expanding sales of our products to and renewing license and maintenance agreements with existing customers. In particular, part of our sales strategy is to leverage our desktop Monarch data preparation product to drive enterprise sales of our managed analytics platform. In order for us to improve our operating results, it is important that our existing customers make additional significant purchases of our products. If our customers do not purchase additional licenses or capabilities, our revenues may grow more slowly than expected, may not grow at all or may decline. Our customers’ renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their satisfaction or dissatisfaction with our products or services, our pricing or pricing structure, the pricing or capabilities of products or services offered by our competitors, the effects of economic conditions, or reductions in our customers’ spending levels. If our customers do not renew their agreements with us, or renew on terms less favorable to us, our revenues may decline and our business operations and financial results may be harmed.. The Markets for our Self-Service Data Preparation and Data Visualization Products are Emerging and May Not Grow. Because the market for our self-service data preparation and visual data discovery products are still emerging, it is difficult to predict customer adoption and renewal rates, customer demand for our enterprise software licenses, the size and growth rate of these markets, the entry of competitive products or the success of existing competitive products. Any expansion in our markets depends on a number of factors, including the cost, performance and perceived value associated with such software licenses. If the markets for our enterprise software licenses do not achieve widespread adoption or there is a reduction in demand for software in these markets caused by a lack of customer acceptance, technological challenges, competing technologies and products, decreases in corporate spending, weakening economic conditions, or otherwise, it could result in reduced customer orders, reduced renewal rates or decreased revenues, any of which would adversely affect our business operations and financial results.. Dependence on New Product Introductions and New Product Delays or Defects Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on our Business. The markets for data preparation and visual data discovery products is evolving rapidly. Growth in our business depends in substantial part on the continuing introduction of new products, to address the emerging needs of this market. The length of product life cycles depends in part on end-user demand for new or additional functionality in our products and our ability to update our products to meet such demands. If we fail to accurately anticipate the demand for, or encounter any significant delays in developing or introducing, new products or additional functionality in our products, there could be a material adverse effect on our business. Our product life cycles can also be affected if suppliers of software systems with which we interact introduce new or changed functionality within their products. Our failure to anticipate the introduction of additional functionality in products developed by such suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, our competitors may introduce products with more features and lower prices than our products. Such increase in competition could adversely affect the life cycles of our products, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business.. 10. Software products, whether developed internally or licensed from third parties, may contain undetected errors or failures when first introduced or as new versions are released. There can be no assurance that, despite testing by us and by current and potential end-users, errors will not be found in new products after commencement of commercial shipments, resulting in loss of or delay in market acceptance. Any failure by us to anticipate or respond adequately to changes in technology and customer preferences, or any significant delays in product development or introduction, could have a material adverse effect on our business.. A Significant Percentage of our Total Revenue is Subject to Risks Associated with International Sales. In the years ended September 30, 2017, 2016 and 2015, international sales accounted for 17%, 14% and 21%, respectively, of our total revenue. We anticipate that international sales will continue to account for a significant percentage of our total revenue. A significant portion of our total revenue will therefore be subject to risks associated with international sales, including deterioration of international economic conditions, unexpected changes in legal and regulatory requirements, changes in tariffs, currency exchange rates and other import or export controls, political and economic instability, possible effects of war and acts of terrorism, difficulties in accounts receivable collection, difficulties in managing distributors or representatives, difficulties in staffing and managing international operations, difficulties in protecting our intellectual property overseas, seasonality of sales and potentially adverse foreign tax consequences.. On June 23, 2016, the United Kingdom held a referendum in which United Kingdom voters approved an exit from the European Union commonly referred to as “Brexit”. The announcement of Brexit caused significant volatility in global stock markets and currency exchange rate fluctuations that resulted in the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies in which we conduct business. The long term effects of Brexit will depend on any agreements the United Kingdom makes to retain access to European Union markets either during a transitional period or more permanently. The measures could potentially disrupt the markets we serve and may cause our customers to closely monitor their costs and reduce their spending budget on our products and services. In addition, Brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the United Kingdom determines which European Union laws to replace or replicate. Given the lack of comparable precedent, it is unclear what financial, trade and legal implications the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union would have and how such withdrawal would affect us. Adverse consequences such as deterioration in economic conditions, volatility in currency exchange rates, and prohibitive laws and regulations could have a negative impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition.. Future Acquisitions May be Difficult to Integrate, Disrupt our Business, Dilute Stockholder Value or Divert Management Attention. In the future, we could acquire additional products, technologies or businesses, or enter into joint venture arrangements, for the purpose of complementing or expanding our business and to address the need to develop new products. Integrating the operations of an acquired company, product or business successfully or otherwise realizing the anticipated benefits of an acquisition, including additional revenue opportunities, involves a number of challenges and risks. The failure to meet these integration challenges could seriously harm our results of operations, and the market price of our common stock may decline as a result. Realizing the benefits of an acquisition will depend in part on the integration of technology, operations, personnel and sales activity of the two companies. These integration activities are complex and time-consuming, and we may encounter unexpected difficulties or incur unexpected costs, including:. ·challenges in combining product offerings, including integration of the underlying technology, and sales and marketing activities;. 11. ·our inability to achieve the cost savings and operating synergies anticipated in the transaction, which would prevent us from achieving the positive earnings gains expected as a result of the transaction;. ·diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns to integration matters;. ·difficulties in consolidating and rationalizing information technology platforms and administrative infrastructures;. ·complexities in managing a larger and more geographically dispersed company than before the completion of transaction;. ·difficulties in the assimilation of personnel and the integration of two business cultures;. ·challenges in demonstrating to our customers and to customers of the acquired company that the transaction will not result in adverse changes in product and technology offerings, customer service standards or business focus; and. ·possible cash flow interruption or loss of revenue as a result of change of ownership transitional matters.. Changes in accounting principles and guidance could result in unfavorable accounting charges or effects.. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. These principles are subject to interpretation by the Securities and Exchange Commission and various bodies formed to create and interpret appropriate accounting principles and guidance. A change in these principles or guidance, or in their interpretations, may have a material effect on our reported results, as well as our processes and related controls, and may retroactively affect previously reported results. For example, during May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606). We plan to adopt Topic 606 using the full retrospective transition method when it becomes effective for us on October 1, 2018. See Note 1 to our accompanying consolidated financial statements for information about ASC Topic 606.. We Recorded Substantial Impairment Charges in Fiscal 2015. Any Future Impairments of Our Assets Could Negatively Impact Our Results of Operations.. Non-amortizing intangible assets, including goodwill, are tested for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. An impairment test is also required for other long-lived assets if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Examples of events or changes in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of such intangible assets may not be recoverable could include a significant adverse long term outlook; unanticipated competition or the introduction of disruptive technology; failure of an anticipated product or product line; testing for recoverability in accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 360-10 Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets; loss of key personnel; or a more-likely-than-not expectation that a significant portion of the company will be sold or otherwise disposed of. During the first quarter of fiscal 2015, the Company recorded an impairment of goodwill and long-lived assets in the amount of $32.0 million, related to assets obtained in the acquisition of Panopticon Software AB (now known as Datawatch AB) (“Panopticon”), as a result of revenue shortfalls and operational changes in the sales organization as well as a sustained decline in our share price. Any future impairment of goodwill, other intangible assets, or other long-lived assets, and the performance issues underlying any such impairment, could have a negative impact on our profitability and financial results.. If Material Weaknesses or Other Deficiencies are Discovered in our Internal Accounting Procedures, our Stock Price May be Adversely Affected. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that management report annually on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and identify any material weaknesses in our internal control and financial reporting environment. If management identifies any material weaknesses, their correction could require remedial measures which could be costly and time-consuming. In addition, the presence of material weaknesses could result in financial statement errors which in turn could require us to restate our financial statements. Any identification by us or our independent registered public accounting firm of material weaknesses, even if quickly remedied, could damage investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could affect our stock price and potentially subject us to litigation. Given that Datawatch is an “accelerated filer,” our independent registered public accounting firm will have to attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of such internal control over financial reporting in fiscal year 2017.. 12. The continuous process of maintaining and adapting our internal controls and complying with Section 404 is expensive and time-consuming, and requires significant management attention. We cannot be sure that our internal control measures will continue to provide adequate control over our financial processes and reporting and ensure compliance with Section 404. Any failure by us to comply with Section 404 could subject us to a variety of administrative sanctions and harm our reputation, which could reduce our stock price.. We Face Significant Competition in the Software Industry. Our self-service data preparation and visual data discovery products compete with those of other companies in the Big Data and business analytics markets. These markets are highly competitive and include companies such as Tableau Software, TIBCO Spotfire (a subsidiary of TIBCO Software Inc.), Qlik Technologies, Inc., Informatica, Alteryx, Paxata, Trifacta and First Derivatives, as well as larger technology companies such as IBM, SAP, MicroStrategy, Inc., SAS and Oracle. Many of these competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition and/or substantially greater financial, marketing and technological resources than we do. No assurance can be given that our business will have the resources required to compete successfully in the future. In addition, many of these competitors have strong relationships with current and potential customers and extensive knowledge of the business analytics industry. As a result, they may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. If we are unable to compete successfully against current and future competitors, the business, results of operations and financial condition of the combined business would be harmed. In addition, competitive pressures or other factors may result in significant price erosion that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.. Maintaining and enhancing the Datawatch brand and our reputation is critical to our relationships with our customers and channel partners and to our ability to attract new customers and channel partners. We believe that the importance of our brand recognition and reputation will continue to increase as competition in our market increases. The failure to maintain or enhance our brand recognition or reputation would likely adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Our Success is Dependent on Proprietary Software Technology. Our success is dependent upon proprietary software technology. We rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure and other contractual agreements and technical measures to protect our rights to such proprietary technology. With respect to patents, on June 30, 2015, we applied with the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) for U.S. patent protection of our proprietary systems and methods for automatically generating tables using auto-generated templates. This application is currently pending. Moreover, on January 12, 2016, we applied with the USPTO for U.S. patent protection of our proprietary systems and methods for generating tables from print-ready digital source documents. A first patent (U.S. Patent No. 9,703,706) was issued in this case on July 11, 2017, and a continuation application is pending. Despite such precautions, there can be no assurance that such steps will be adequate to deter misappropriation of such technology.. Our Use of Open Source Software Could Negatively Affect our Ability to Sell our Products and Subject us to Possible Litigation.. We use open source software in our products and expect to continue to use open source software in the future. We may face claims from others claiming ownership of, or seeking to enforce the terms of, an open source license, including by demanding release of the open source software, derivative works or our proprietary source code that was developed using such software. These claims could also result in litigation, require us to purchase costly licenses or require us to devote additional research and development resources to change our products, any of which would have a negative effect on our business and operating results. In addition, if the license terms for the open source code change, we may be forced to re-engineer our products or incur additional costs. Finally, we cannot assure that we have incorporated additional open source software in our products in a manner that is consistent with our current policies and procedures.. 13. We May be Subject to Intellectual Property Rights Claims by Third Parties, Which are Extremely Costly to Defend, Could Require us to Pay Significant Damages and Could Limit our Ability to use Certain Technologies.. Companies in the software and technology industries, including some of our current and potential competitors, own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets and frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. We may receive notices that claim we have misappropriated, misused or infringed other parties’ intellectual property rights, and, to the extent we gain greater market visibility, we face a higher risk of being the subject of intellectual property infringement claims, which is not uncommon with respect to the business analytics software market.. There may be third-party intellectual property rights, including issued or pending patents that cover significant aspects of our technologies or business methods. Any intellectual property claims, with or without merit, could be very time-consuming, could be expensive to settle or litigate and could divert our management’s attention and other resources. These claims could subject us to significant liability for damages, potentially including treble damages if we are found to have willfully infringed patents or copyrights. Such claims could also result in our having to stop using technology found to be in violation of a third party’s rights or to seek a license to use such technology, which may not be available on reasonable terms or may require us to pay significant royalties, increasing our operating expenses. As a result, we may need to develop alternative non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense. If we cannot license or develop technology for any infringing aspect of our business, we would be forced to limit or stop sales of our software and may be unable to compete effectively. Any of these outcomes would adversely affect our business operations and financial results.. Government Regulation of the Internet and e-commerce and of the International Exchange of Certain Technologies is Subject to Possible Unfavorable Changes, and our Failure to Comply with Applicable Regulations Could Harm our Business and Operating Results. As Internet commerce continues to evolve, increasing regulation by federal, state or foreign governments becomes more likely. For example, increased regulation is likely in the area of data privacy, and laws and regulations applying to the solicitation, collection, processing or use of personal or consumer information could affect our customers’ ability to use and share data, potentially reducing demand for our products and services. In addition, taxation of products and services provided over the Internet or other charges by government agencies or by private organizations for accessing the Internet may also be imposed. Any regulation imposing greater fees for Internet use or restricting the exchange of information over the Internet could result in reduced growth or a decline in the use of the Internet and could diminish the viability of our Internet-based services, which could harm our business and operating results.. We May Not be Able to Hire and Retain Highly Skilled Employees, Which Could Affect our Ability to Compete Effectively Because our Business is Technology-Based. Qualified personnel are in great demand throughout the software industry. Our success depends, in large part, upon our ability to attract, train, motivate and retain highly skilled employees, particularly technical personnel and product development and professional services personnel, sales and marketing personnel and other senior personnel. Our failure to attract and retain the highly trained technical personnel that are integral to our product development, professional services and sales and marketing teams may limit the rate at which we can generate sales and develop new products or product enhancements. We have hired a number of key executives during the past three years, including key executives in sales, marketing, finance and human resources functions. A loss of these personnel or other changes in key management could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. 14. Evolving Regulation of Corporate Governance and Public Disclosure May Result in Additional Expenses and Continuing Uncertainty. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related SEC regulations as well as the listing standards of the NASDAQ Stock Market, have created and are continuing to create uncertainty for public companies. We continually evaluate and monitor developments with respect to new and proposed rules and cannot predict or estimate the amount of the additional costs incurred or the timing of such costs. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we have invested resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards. This investment has resulted and may continue to result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and we may be harmed.. The Failure of Indirect Distribution Channels Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on our Operating Results. We sell a significant portion of our products through distributors, value-added resellers, OEMs and other business partners, none of which are under our direct control. Sales to indirect distribution channels accounted for 36%, 35% and 40%, of total sales for fiscal years 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. One partner accounted for 12% of our total revenue for the year ended September 30, 2017. The loss of major distributors or resellers of our products, or a significant decline in their sales, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We actively seek to develop new distributor and reseller relationships on the basis of their business credentials and their ability to add value through expertise in specific vertical markets or application programming expertise, although there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain qualified distributors or resellers or that the distributors or resellers will be able to effectively sell our products. In addition, we may rely on resellers to provide post-sales service and support, and any deficiencies in such service and support could adversely affect our business.. Our Subscription Sales Model for our Enterprise Products Could Result in Decreased or Delayed Revenues and Cash Flows. We sell our enterprise products through the sale of perpetual licenses and through a subscription pricing model. The subscription pricing model allows customers to use our products at a lower initial cost of software acquisition when compared to the more traditional perpetual license sale. Although the subscription sales model is designed to increase the number of enterprise solutions sold and also reduce dependency on short-term sales by building a recurring revenue stream, it introduces increased risks for us primarily associated with the timing of revenue recognition and reduced cash flows. Currently, the subscription model delays revenue recognition when compared to the typical perpetual license sale and could result in decreased revenue for solutions sold under the model if we experience a high percentage of subscription cancellations following the first 12 months of the subscription. Further, as amounts due from customers are invoiced annually over the life of the subscription, there are delayed cash flows from subscription sales when compared to perpetual license sales. Upon adoption of ASC Topic 606, revenue for performance obligations will generally be recognized as they are satisfied. See Note 1 to our accompanying consolidated financial statements for information about ASC Topic 606.. 15. If our Security Measures are Breached or Other Unauthorized Access to Customer Data is Otherwise Obtained, our Software May be Perceived as not being Secure, Customers May Reduce the Use of or Stop Using our Software, and we May Incur Significant Liabilities. Our software, when installed on our customer’s premises, may involve the storage and transmission of customer data, and security breaches could result in the loss of this information, litigation, indemnity obligations and other liability. While we have taken steps to protect the confidential information that we have access to, including confidential information we may obtain through our customer support services or customer usage of our products, we do not have the ability to monitor or review the content that our customers store, and therefore, we have no direct control over the substance of that content. Therefore, if customers use our software for the transmission or storage of personally identifiable information and our security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, our reputation could be damaged, our business may suffer, and we could incur significant liability. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not identified until they are launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Further, while we have taken steps to maintain compliance with laws and regulations relating to privacy and data security, including the adoption of internationally recognized standards of data protection and security, the loss, retention or misuse of certain information and/or alleged violations of such laws and regulations may expose us to significant liability. Any or all of these issues could negatively impact our ability to attract new customers and increase engagement by existing customers, cause existing customers to elect to not renew their subscriptions, or subject us to third-party lawsuits, regulatory fines or other action or liability, thereby adversely affecting our financial results.. We May Require Additional Capital to Grow our Business, and Our Financing Arrangements Expose us to Interest Rate and Default Risk. Our business may require additional capital to operate and expand. Over the past few years, we have relied upon cash generated from operations to satisfy our capital needs and finance growth. If we determine in the future to make significant investments in our business, including by acquiring assets or businesses from third parties, we may attempt to raise additional funds by securing additional debt financing or selling equity securities in either the public or the private markets. As the financial markets change and new regulations come into effect, the cost of acquiring financing and the methods of financing may change. We may not be able to obtain additional debt or equity financing on favorable terms, if at all. If we raise additional equity financing, our security holders may experience significant dilution of their ownership interests and the value of shares of our common stock could decline. If we engage in debt financing, we may be required to accept terms that restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness, force us to maintain specified liquidity or other ratios or restrict our ability to make acquisitions. Our inability to do any of the foregoing could reduce our ability to compete successfully and adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in our credit rating or other market factors may increase our interest expense or other costs of capital, or capital may not be available to us on acceptable terms to fund our needs.. Catastrophic Events May Adversely Affect Our Business. Our company is a highly automated business which relies on our network infrastructure and enterprise applications, internal technology systems and website for development, marketing, operational, support and sales activities. A disruption or failure of these systems in the event of a major storm, earthquake, fire, telecommunications failure, cyber-attack, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event could cause system interruptions, reputational harm, delays in our product development and loss of critical data and could affect our ability to sell and deliver products and services and other critical functions of our business.. Risks Relating to an Investment in our Common Stock. The Market Price of our Stock Has Been and May Continue to Be Volatile. The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile. Our stock price may be adversely affected by many factors, including:. ·actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results;. ·increased competition;. ·general market conditions;. ·announcements of technical innovations;. ·announcements related to the Board’s review of strategic alternatives to increase shareholder value;. ·new products or services offered by us, our suppliers or our competitors;. ·expenses or other difficulties associated with assimilating companies acquired by us;. ·changes in the mix of sales channels;. 16. ·the timing of significant customer orders;. ·changes in estimates or recommendations by securities analysts of our future financial performance, failure to obtain analyst coverage of our common stock or our failure to achieve analyst earnings estimates;. ·the issuance of additional shares to obtain financing or for acquisitions;. ·our compliance with SEC and NASDAQ rules and regulations, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002;. ·trading volume of our common stock;. ·the timing of stock sales under 10b5-1 plans or otherwise by our shareholders in the future; and. ·political instability, natural disasters, war and/or events of terrorism.. Even though we do not presently provide forecasts of our future financial performance, any shortfall in revenue or earnings from the levels anticipated by securities analysts or investors could have an immediate and significant adverse effect on the market price of our common stock in any given period. In addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, which have particularly affected the market price for many high technology companies and which, on occasion, have appeared to be unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. Finally, to maintain our stock listing with NASDAQ, we must be in compliance with NASDAQ Marketplace Rules. If we are not able to maintain compliance with these rules, and if our common stock does not qualify for, or is subsequently delisted from, the NASDAQ Capital Market, investors may have difficulty converting their investment into cash efficiently. The price of our common stock and the ability of holders to sell such stock would be adversely affected.. Because We do Not Expect to Pay Dividends on Our Common Stock, Stockholders Will Benefit from an Investment in our Common Stock Only if it Appreciates in Value. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and have no present intention to pay any dividends in the future.  We intend to use all available cash and liquid assets in the development of our business.  Any future determination about the payment of dividends will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon our earnings, if any, our capital requirements, our operating and financial conditions and on such other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant.  As a result, the success of an investment in our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in its value.  There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which stockholders have purchased their shares.. Sales of a Substantial Number of Shares of Our Common Stock in the Public Market by Us or by Existing Stockholders, or the Perception that they may Occur, Could Cause our Stock Price to Decline.. Insiders presently hold a significant percentage of our stock, and our shares are thinly traded in the public market. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock by us or by our stockholders, announcements of the proposed sales of substantial amounts of our common stock or the perception that substantial sales may be made, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We may issue additional shares of our common stock in follow-on offerings to raise additional capital or in connection with acquisitions or corporate alliances and we plan to issue additional shares to our employees and directors in connection with their services to us. Any issuance of additional common stock will dilute the ownership interest of existing common shareholders. All of the currently outstanding shares of our common stock are freely tradable under federal and state securities laws, except for shares held by our employees, directors, officers and certain greater than five percent shareholders, which may be subject to volume limitations. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could occur at any time and could reduce the market price of our common stock.. We Can Issue Shares of Preferred Stock that May Adversely Affect the Rights of Holders of Our Common Stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock with designations, rights, and preferences determined from time to time by our board of directors.  Accordingly, our board of directors is empowered, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights superior to those of holders of our common stock.  For example, an issuance of shares of preferred stock could:. ·adversely affect the voting power of the holders of our common stock;. 17. ·make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of us;. ·discourage bids for our common stock at a premium;. ·limit or eliminate any payments that the holders of our common stock could expect to receive upon our liquidation; or. ·otherwise adversely affect the market price or our common stock.. If Securities or Industry Analysts Publish Research or Reports About Our Business, or if they Change their Recommendations Regarding Our Stock, the Price of Our Stock and Trading Volume Could Decline. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research reports and opinions that are published about our business. If the analysts that cover us fail to publish reports in a regular manner, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause a significant and prolonged decline in our stock price due to lack of investor awareness. Furthermore, if one or more analysts downgrade our stock or comment negatively about our prospects or the prospects of other companies operating in our industry, our stock price could decline significantly.. Our Governing Documents and Delaware Law may Discourage the Potential Acquisition of Our Business and Adversely Affect the Rights of our Common Stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may make the acquisition of our company more difficult without the approval of our board of directors. In addition, we are subject to anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law. These provisions may deter or discourage takeover attempts and other changes in control of us not approved by our board of directors. If potential acquirers are deterred, you may lose an opportunity to profit from a possible acquisition premium in our stock price."
