[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. Business, Competitive and Strategic Risks. The continuing shift from branded to private label products could continue to negatively impact our profit margin.. We are experiencing a continuing shift from branded to private label products. Retailers continue to aggressively price their private label milk to drive foot traffic, which has been increasing the price gap between branded and private label milk. We believe this negatively affects our branded product sales as customers trade down to private label products. This trend could be accelerated by the continued expansion of deep discount supermarket retailers, such as Aldi and Lidl, in the U.S. market. These factors have negatively impacted and could continue to impact our mix and margins, which could materially adversely affect our profitability.. Volume softness in the dairy category, combined with our volume losses, has had a negative impact on our sales and profits.. Industry-wide volume softness across dairy product categories, particularly within fluid milk, continued in 2017. Decreasing dairy category volume has increased the impact of declining margins on our business. Periods of declining volumes limit the cost and price increases that we can seek to recapture. We expect volume softness to continue in the future. In addition, in recent years, we have experienced volume losses and declines in historical volumes from some of our largest customers, which has negatively impacted our sales and profitability and which will continue to have a negative impact in the future if we are not able to reduce costs quickly enough to offset the lost volume and attract and retain a profitable customer and product mix.. 8. Table of Contents. Our results of operations and financial condition depend heavily on commodity prices and the availability of raw materials and other inputs. Our failure or inability to respond to high or fluctuating input prices could adversely affect our profitability.. Our results of operations and financial condition depend heavily on the cost and supply of raw materials and other inputs including conventional raw milk, butterfat, cream and other dairy commodities, many of which are determined by constantly changing market forces of supply and demand over which we have limited or no control. Cost increases in raw materials and other inputs could cause our profitability to decrease significantly compared to prior periods, as we may be unwilling or unable to increase our prices or unable to achieve cost savings to offset the increased cost of these raw materials and other inputs.. Although we generally pass through the cost of dairy commodities to our customers over time, we believe demand destruction can occur at certain price levels, and we may be unwilling or unable to pass through the cost of dairy commodities, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability. Dairy commodity prices can be affected by adverse weather conditions (including the impact of climate change) and natural disasters, such as floods, droughts, frost, fires, earthquakes and pestilence, which can lower crop and dairy yields and reduce supplies of these ingredients or increase their prices.. Our profitability also depends on the cost and supply of non-dairy raw materials and other inputs, such as sweeteners, petroleum-based products, diesel fuel, resin and other non-dairy food ingredients.. Our dairy and non-dairy raw materials are generally sourced from third parties, and we are not assured of continued supply, pricing or sufficient access to raw materials from any of these suppliers. Damage to our suppliers' manufacturing, transportation or distribution capabilities could impair our ability to make, transport, distribute or sell our products. Other events that adversely affect our suppliers and that are out of our control could also impair our ability to obtain the raw materials and other inputs that we need in the quantities and at the prices that we desire. Such events include adverse weather conditions (including climate change) or natural disasters, government action, or problems with our suppliers' businesses, finances, labor relations, costs, production, insurance, reputation and international demand and supply characteristics.. If we are unable to obtain raw materials and other inputs for our products or offset any increased costs for such raw materials and inputs, our business could be negatively affected. While we may enter into forward purchase contracts and other purchase arrangements with suppliers and may purchase over-the-counter contracts with our qualified banking partners or exchange-traded commodity futures contracts for raw materials, these arrangements do not eliminate the risk of negative impacts on our business, financial condition and results of operations from commodity price changes.. We may not realize anticipated benefits from our enterprise-wide cost productivity plan, and we may not complete this plan within our projected time frames, either of which could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We are executing an aggressive enterprise-wide cost productivity plan to significantly overhaul and reset our cost structure. We believe these cost savings measures are necessary to offset our volume deleverage and position our business for future success and growth. Our future success and earnings depend upon our ability to realize the benefit of our cost reduction activities and rationalization plans, particularly in an environment of increased competitive activity, volume pressures, and reduced profitability. Inflation, declining volumes and competitive pricing pressures have negated, and may continue to negate, some of the impact of our cost saving efforts. In addition, several factors could cause our cost productivity plan to adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. These include potential disruption of our operations and other aspects of our business and significant investments required to execute the plan. Employee morale and productivity could also suffer and result in unintended employee attrition. Our cost productivity plan will require substantial management time and attention and may divert management from other important work. In addition, certain of our cost reduction activities have led to increased costs in other aspects of our business such as increased conversion or distribution costs. For example, in connection with our plant closures, our cost of distribution on a per gallon basis has increased as we have changed distribution routes and transported product into areas previously serviced by now closed plants. If we fail to properly anticipate and mitigate the ancillary cost increases related to our plant closures or other cost savings, we may not realize the benefits of our cost productivity plan.. In addition, we must execute our plans within our projected timelines in order to meet our financial projections and to remain competitive in the marketplace. We could encounter delays in executing our plans, which could cause further disruption and additional unanticipated expense. If we are unable to realize the anticipated benefits from our cost productivity plan or complete them within the targeted time frame, we may be unable to meet our financial projections, or realize the necessary cost savings to offset the anticipated impact from our volume deleverage and cost inflation. In addition, we could be cost disadvantaged in the marketplace, and our competitiveness and our profitability could decrease. Depending on the extent of the decline in our financial results and our financial and cash flow projections, we may also incur tangible or intangible asset impairment charges in future periods.. 9. Table of Contents. Our volume, sales and profits have been, and may continue to be, negatively impacted by the outcome of competitive bidding.. Many of our retail customers have become increasingly price sensitive and investing in private label, which has intensified the competitive environment in which we operate. As a result, we have been subject to a number of competitive bidding situations, both formal and informal, which have materially reduced our sales volumes and profitability on sales to several customers. We expect this trend of competitive bidding to continue. In oder to win business in such a competitive environment, we may have to replace existing or lost volume with lower margin business, which could also negatively impact our profitability. Additionally, this competitive environment may result in us serving an increasing number of small format customers, which may raise the costs of production and distribution, and negatively impact the profitability of our business. If we are unable to structure our business to appropriately respond to the pricing demands of our customers, we may lose customers to other processors that are willing to sell product at a lower cost, which could negatively impact our volume, sales and profits.. Price concessions to retailers have negatively impacted, and could continue to negatively impact, our operating margins and profitability.. In the past, retailers have at times required price concessions that have negatively impacted our margins, and continued pressures to make such price concessions could negatively impact our profitability in the future. If we are not able to lower our cost structure adequately in response to customer pricing demands, and if we are not able to attract and retain a profitable customer mix and a profitable product mix, our profitability could continue to be adversely affected.. We may be adversely impacted by a changing customer and consumer landscape.. Many of our customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors, have consolidated. This consolidation may continue. These consolidations have produced large, more sophisticated customers with increased buying power and negotiating strength, who may seek lower prices or more favorable terms, and they have increased our dependence on key large-format retailers and discount supermarket retailers. In addition, some of these customers are vertically integrated and have re-dedicated key shelf-space that was formerly occupied by our branded products for their private label products. We are also facing downward pricing pressure from retailers, such as discount supermarket retailers, who sell their own private label products and proprietary brands. In addition to the competitive pressures from retail customers, we are facing increased competition from dairy cooperatives and other processors.. The highly competitive retail fluid milk and broader grocery industries are facing additional future uncertainties as a result of the rise of discount supermarket chains, online and delivery grocery offerings, meal kit services, and other mechanisms of food delivery. These developments may trigger significant changes in pricing competition, and the grocery industry, as well as consumer buying patterns, the effects and timing of which are currently unknown.. Higher levels of price competition and higher resistance to price increases have had a significant impact on our business. If we are unable to respond to these customer dynamics and potential future changes in the customer landscape, our business or financial results could be materially adversely affected.. Our ability to generate positive cash flow and profits will depend partly on our successful execution of our business strategy.. Our ability to generate positive cash flow and profits will depend partly on our successful execution of our business strategy. Our business strategy may require significant capital investment and management attention, which may result in the diversion of these resources from other business issues and opportunities. Additionally, the successful implementation of our current business strategy is subject to our ability to manage costs and expenses and implement our enterprise-wide cost productivity plan, our ability to develop new and innovative products, the success of continuing improvement initiatives, our ability to leverage processing and logistical efficiencies, our consumers' demand for our brands and products, the effectiveness of our advertising and targeting of consumers and channels, the availability of favorable acquisition opportunities and our ability to attract and retain qualified management and other personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement our business strategy. If we cannot successfully execute our business strategy, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely impacted.. 10. Table of Contents. The success of our business strategy depends upon our ability to build our brands.. Building strong brands is a key component of our business strategy in order to expand sales and volumes and to respond to the changing customer landscape. With the launch of our national brands, DairyPure® and TruMoo®, we have expanded from a regional branding strategy to a national branding strategy. We have incurred, and may continue to incur in the future, significant expenditures for advertising and marketing campaigns in an effort to build brand awareness and preference over other private label products. We may not be successful in our efforts to expand our regional brand presence to a national brand presence, and we cannot guarantee that our advertising and marketing campaigns will result in customer or consumer acceptance of our brands. Further, the success of our national branding strategy requires us to drive operational changes in order to have a national brand footprint. If these efforts are unsuccessful or we incur substantial costs in connection with these efforts, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected.. The loss of, or a material reduction or change in the mix of sales volumes purchased by, any of our largest customers could negatively impact our sales and profits.. Walmart Inc. and its subsidiaries, including Sam's Club, accounted for approximately 17.5% and 16.7% of our consolidated net sales in 2017 and 2016, respectively, and our top five customers, including Walmart, collectively accounted for approximately 32% and 31% of our consolidated net sales in 2017 and 2016, respectively. In connection with Walmart Inc.'s dairy processing plant in Indiana, we expect to lose approximately 60 million gallons of private label fluid milk volume beginning in the second half of 2018, which equates to approximately 100 to 110 million gallons annually. In addition, we expect marketplace volume and mix challenges to continue in 2018, including those associated with our largest customer.. We are also indirectly exposed to the financial and business risks of our largest customers because, if their business declines, they may correspondingly decrease the volumes purchased from us. The loss of, or further declines or changes in the mix of sales volumes purchased by, any of our largest customers could negatively impact our sales and profits, particularly due to our significant fixed costs and assets, which are difficult to rapidly reduce in response to significant volume declines.. The failure to successfully identify, consummate and integrate acquisitions into our existing operations could adversely affect our financial results.. We regularly evaluate acquisitions and other strategic opportunities as part of our business strategy. We face significant competition from numerous other bidders, many of which may have greater financial resources to allocate for acquisition opportunities. Accordingly, attractive acquisition opportunities may not be available to us or may be available only at higher cost or valuations. If we are unable to identify suitable acquisition candidates or successfully consummate the acquisitions and integrate the businesses we acquire, our business strategy may not succeed.. Additionally, the acquisitions that we complete may involve potential risks, including:. •diversion of management's attention from other business concerns;. •inability to achieve anticipated benefits from these acquisitions in the timeframe we anticipate, or at all;. • inherent risks in entering geographic locations, markets or lines of business in which we have limited prior experience;. • inability to integrate the new operations, technologies and products of the acquired companies successfully with our existing businesses;. • increased leverage and higher interest expense associated with borrowings that may be required to fund these acquisitions;. • potential disruption of our ongoing business;. •potential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired companies;. •possible assumption of unknown liabilities; and. •potential disputes with the sellers.. Moreover, merger and acquisition activities are subject to antitrust and competition laws, which have impacted, and may continue to impact, our ability to pursue strategic transactions.. Any or all of these risks could materially adversely impact our business and financial results.. If we fail to anticipate and respond to changes in consumer preferences, demand for our products could decline.. Consumer tastes, preferences and consumption habits evolve over time and are difficult to predict. Demand for our products depends on our ability to identify and offer products that appeal to these shifting preferences. Factors that may affect consumer tastes and preferences include:. 11. Table of Contents. • dietary trends and increased attention to nutritional values, such as the sugar, fat, protein or calorie content of different foods and beverages;. • concerns regarding the health effects of specific ingredients and nutrients, such as dairy, sugar and other sweeteners, vitamins and minerals;. • concerns regarding the public health consequences associated with obesity, particularly among young people; and. • increasing awareness of the environmental and social effects of product production.. If we fail to anticipate and respond to these changes and trends, we may experience reduced consumer demand for our products, which in turn could adversely affect our sales volumes and our business could be negatively affected.. Our business operations could be disrupted and the liquidity and market price of our securities could decline if our information technology systems fail to perform adequately or experience a security breach.. We maintain a large database of confidential information and sensitive data in our information technology systems, including confidential employee, supplier and customer information, and accounting, financial and other data on which we rely for internal and external financial reporting and other purposes. In addition, the efficient operation of our business depends on our information technology systems. We rely on our information technology systems, including those of third parties, to effectively manage our business data, communications, supply chain, logistics, accounting and other business processes. If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain an appropriate technology environment, our business or financial results could be negatively impacted. In addition, our information technology systems and those of third parties are vulnerable to damage or interruption from circumstances beyond our control, including systems failures, viruses, security breaches or cyber incidents such as ransomware, intentional cyber attacks aimed at theft of sensitive data or inadvertent cyber-security compromises. A security breach of such information or failure of our information technology systems or those of third parties that we rely on could result in damage to our reputation, negatively impact our relations with our customers or employees, and expose us to liability and litigation. Moreover, a security breach or failure of our information systems could also result in the alteration, corruption or loss of the accounting, financial or other data on which we rely for internal and external financial reporting and other purposes and, depending on the severity of the security breach or systems failure, could prevent the audit of our financial statements or our internal control over financial reporting from being completed on a timely basis or at all, or could negatively impact the resulting audit opinions. Any such damage or interruption, or alteration, corruption or loss, could have a material adverse effect on our business or could cause our securities to become less liquid and the market price of our securities to decline.. We may incur liabilities or harm to our reputation, or be forced to recall products, as a result of real or perceived product quality or other product-related issues.. We sell products for human consumption, which involves a number of risks. Product contamination, spoilage, other adulteration, misbranding, mislabeling, or product tampering could require us to recall products. We also may be subject to liability if our products or operations violate applicable laws or regulations, including environmental, health and safety requirements, or in the event our products cause injury, illness or death. In addition, our product advertising could make us the target of claims relating to false or deceptive advertising under U.S. federal and state laws, including the consumer protection statutes of some states, or laws of other jurisdictions in which we operate. A significant product liability, consumer fraud or other legal judgment against us or a widespread product recall may negatively impact our sales, brands, reputation and profitability. Moreover, claims or liabilities of this sort might not be covered by insurance or by any rights of indemnity or contribution that we may have against others. Even if a product liability, consumer fraud or other claim is found to be without merit or is otherwise unsuccessful, the negative publicity surrounding such assertions regarding our products or processes could materially and adversely affect our reputation and brand image, particularly in categories that consumers believe as having strong health and wellness credentials. Further, the risks to our reputation and brand image are more susceptible on a national scale as a result of our expansion from a regional branded platform to a national branded platform. In addition, consumer preferences related to genetically modified foods, animal proteins, or the use of certain sweeteners could result in negative publicity and adversely affect our reputation. Any loss of consumer confidence in our product ingredients or in the safety and quality of our products would be difficult and costly to overcome and could have a material adverse effect on our business.. 12. Table of Contents. Disruption of our supply or distribution chains or transportation systems could adversely affect our business.. Our ability to make, move and sell our products is critical to our success. Damage or disruption to our manufacturing or distribution capabilities due to weather (including the impact of climate change), natural disaster, fire, environmental incident, terrorism (including eco-terrorism and bio-terrorism), pandemic, strikes, the financial or operational instability of key suppliers, distributors, warehousing and transportation providers, or other reasons could impair our ability to manufacture or distribute our products. If we are unable, or it is not financially feasible, to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, our business and results of operations could be negatively affected and additional resources could be required to restore our supply chain. In addition, we are subject to federal motor carrier regulations, such as the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Act, with which our extensive DSD system must comply. Failure to comply with such regulations could result in our inability to deliver product to our customers in a timely manner, which could adversely affect our reputation and our results.. Failure to maintain sufficient internal production capacity or to enter into co-packing agreements on terms that are beneficial for us may result in our inability to meet customer demand and/or increase our operating costs.. The success of our business depends, in part, on maintaining a strong production platform and we rely on internal production resources and third-party co-packers to fulfill our manufacturing needs. As part of our ongoing cost reduction efforts, we have closed or announced the closure of a number of our plants since late 2012. It is possible that we may need to increase our reliance on third parties to provide manufacturing and supply services, commonly referred to as \"co-packing\" agreements, for a number of our products. In particular, there is increasing consumer preference for certain sized extended shelf life (\"ESL\") products in certain categories and, as a result of the Morningstar divestiture, we are contractually limited in our ability to manufacture ESL products. In such case, we must rely on our co-packers. A failure by our co-packers to comply with food safety, environmental, or other laws and regulations may disrupt our supply of products and cause damage to the reputation of our brand. If we need to enter into additional co-packing agreements in the future, we can provide no assurance that we would be able to find acceptable third-party providers or enter into agreements on satisfactory terms. Our inability to establish satisfactory co-packing arrangements could limit our ability to operate our business and could negatively affect our sales volumes and results of operations. If we cannot maintain sufficient production capacity, either internally or through third-party agreements, we may be unable to meet customer demand and/or our manufacturing costs may increase, which could negatively affect our business.. If we are unable to hire, retain and develop our leadership bench, or fail to develop and implement an adequate succession plan for current leadership positions, it could have a negative impact on our business.. Our continued and future success depends partly upon our ability to hire, retain and develop our leadership bench.  Effective succession planning is also a key factor in our long-term success. Any unplanned turnover or failure to develop or implement an adequate succession plan to backfill key leadership positions could deplete our institutional knowledge base and erode our competitive advantage. Our failure to enable the effective transfer of knowledge or to facilitate smooth transitions with regard to key leadership positions, including the upcoming onboarding of Jody Macedonio as CFO, could adversely affect our long-term strategic planning and execution and negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our existing debt and other financial obligations may restrict our business operations and we may incur even more debt.. We have substantial debt and other financial obligations and significant unused borrowing capacity. We may incur additional debt in the future. In addition to our other financial obligations, on December 31, 2017, we had $918.9 million of long-term debt obligations, excluding unamortized discounts and debt issuance costs of $5.7 million. On February 21, 2018, we had the ability to borrow up to a combined additional $576.6 million of combined future borrowing capacity under our Credit Facility and receivables securitization facility, subject to compliance with certain conditions.. We have pledged substantially all of our assets, other than real property, to secure our Credit Facility. Our debt and related debt service obligations could:. • require us to dedicate significant cash flow to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, which reduces the funds we have available for other purposes, including for funding working capital, capital expenditures, and acquisitions and for other general corporate purposes;. • limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and market conditions;. • impose on us additional financial and operational restrictions, including restrictions on our ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, create liens, guarantee obligations, undertake acquisitions or sales of assets, declare dividends and make other specified restricted payments, and make investments; and. • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to businesses in our industry that have less debt or that are debt-free.. 13. Table of Contents. To the extent that we incur additional indebtedness in the future, these limitations would likely have a greater impact on our business. Failure to make required payments on our debt or comply with the financial covenants or any other non-financial or restrictive covenants set forth in the agreements governing our debt could create a default and cause a downgrade to our credit rating. Upon a default, our lenders could accelerate the indebtedness, foreclose against their collateral or seek other remedies, which would jeopardize our ability to continue our current operations. In those circumstances, we may be required to amend the agreements governing our debt, refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, incur additional indebtedness or raise equity. Our ability to make scheduled payments on our debt and other financial obligations and comply with financial covenants depends on our financial and operating performance, which in turn, is subject to various factors such as prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond our control.  See \"Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Current Debt Obligations\" for more information.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act signed into law on December 22, 2017 could have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Legislative or other actions relating to taxes could have a negative effect on the Company. The rules dealing with U.S. federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") and the U.S. Treasury Department. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\"), which was signed into law in December 2017, made comprehensive changes to the U.S. tax code affecting tax years 2017 and thereafter. Among other things, the Tax Act reduces the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, imposes a mandatory one-time transition tax on unrepatriated foreign earnings, enhances the acceleration of depreciation deductions on qualified property, changes the U.S. taxation of foreign earnings and eliminates certain business deductions. The legislation is unclear in certain respects and will require interpretations and implementing regulations by the IRS, as well as state tax authorities, and the legislation could be subject to potential amendments and technical corrections, any of which could lessen or increase certain adverse impacts of the legislation. It is also uncertain how credit rating agencies will treat the impacts of this legislation on their credit ratings and metrics. While there are benefits, there is substantial uncertainty regarding the details of the Tax Act. The intended and unintended consequences of the Tax Act on our business and on holders of our common stock is uncertain and could be adverse. For example, the tax reform legislation enacted a new provision that in general allows farmers a 20% deduction on all payments received on sales to cooperatives. This new deduction could increase our cost of raw milk purchased directly from farmers or make it more difficult to find direct farm sources of supply and could also indirectly impact our other commodity costs.. We cannot predict with certainty how the Tax Act or any other changes in the tax laws might affect the Company or its stockholders. The new legislation and any U.S. Treasury regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions interpreting such legislation could significantly and negatively affect U.S. federal income tax consequences to the Company and its stockholders.. We may need additional financing in the future, and we may not be able to obtain that financing.. From time to time, we may need additional financing to support our business and pursue our growth strategy, including strategic acquisitions. Our ability to obtain additional financing, if and when required, will depend on investor demand, our operating performance, the condition of the capital markets, and other factors. We cannot assure you that additional financing will be available to us on favorable terms when required, or at all. If we are unable to obtain additional financing in the future, our business, financial condition, and operations could be materially adversely affected.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. Our Board of Directors could change our dividend policy at any time.. In November 2013, our Board of Directors adopted a dividend policy under which we intend to pay quarterly cash dividends on our common stock. Under this policy, holders of our common stock will receive dividends when and as declared by our Board of Directors. Pursuant to this policy, we paid quarterly dividends of $0.09 per share ($0.36 per share annually) during 2017. However, we are not required to pay dividends and our stockholders do not have contractual or other legal rights to receive them. Any determination to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the future may be affected by business conditions, our views on potential future capital requirements, the terms of our debt instruments, legal risks, changes in federal income tax law and challenges to our business model. Furthermore, our Board of Directors may decide at any time, in its discretion, not to pay a dividend, to decrease the amount of dividends or to change or revoke the dividend policy entirely. If we do not pay dividends, for whatever reason, shares of our common stock could become less liquid and the market price of our common stock could decline.. 14. Table of Contents. Our stock price is volatile and may decline regardless of our operating performance, and you could lose a significant part of your investment.. The market price of our common stock has historically been volatile and in the future may be influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including those described in this section and the following:. • changes in financial estimates by analysts or our inability to meet those financial estimates;. • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, restructurings, significant contracts, acquisitions, joint marketing relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments;. • variations in our quarterly results of operations and those of our competitors;. • general economic and stock market conditions;. • changes in conditions or trends in our industry, geographies or customers;. • terrorist acts;. • activism by any large stockholder or group of stockholders;. • perceptions of the investment opportunity associated with our common stock relative to other investment alternatives;. • actual or anticipated growth rates relative to our competitors; and. • speculation by the investment community regarding our business.. In addition, the stock markets, including the New York Stock Exchange, have experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities issued by many companies, including companies in our industry. In the past, some companies that have had volatile market prices for their securities have been subject to class action or derivative lawsuits or shareholder activism. The filing of a lawsuit against us or shareholder activism targeted toward us, regardless of the outcome, could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as it could result in substantial legal costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources.. These market and industry factors may materially reduce the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. This volatility may increase the risk that our stockholders will suffer a loss on their investment or be unable to sell or otherwise liquidate their holdings of our common stock.. Capital Markets and General Economic Risks. Future funding requirements, withdrawal liabilities and related charges associated with multiemployer plans in which we participate could have a material negative impact on our business.. In addition to our company-sponsored pension plans, we participate in certain multiemployer defined benefit pension plans that are administered jointly by labor unions representing certain of our employees and multiple employers like us that have employees participating in the plan. We make periodic contributions to these multiemployer pension plans in accordance with the provisions of negotiated collective bargaining agreements. Our required contributions to these plans could increase due to a number of factors, including the funded status of the plans and the level of our ongoing participation in these plans. Underfunding is not a direct obligation or liability of ours or any employer, but is likely to have important consequences. Our risk of such increased payments may be greater if any of the participating employers in these underfunded plans withdraws from the plan due to insolvency and is not able to contribute an amount sufficient to fund the unfunded liabilities associated with its participants in the plan. In the event that we decide to withdraw from participation in one of these multiemployer plans, we could be required to make additional lump-sum contributions to the relevant plan. These withdrawal liabilities may be significant and could materially adversely affect our business and our financial results.. Some of the plans in which we participate are reported to have significant underfunded liabilities, which could increase the amount of any potential withdrawal liability. This requires us to potentially make substantial withdrawal liability payments when we close a facility covered by one of these plans, which could hinder our ability to make otherwise appropriate management decisions to operate as efficiently as possible. In addition, under the Pension Protection Act of 2006 and the Multi-Employer Pension Reform Act of 2014, special funding rules apply to multiemployer pension plans that are classified as \"endangered,\" \"seriously endangered,\" \"critical,\" or \"critical and declining\" status. Some of the plans in which we participate are in critical or critical and declining status, and we have been required to make additional contributions and may be subject to additional contributions in the future. We are subject to substantial withdrawal liability with respect to a number of multiemployer pension plans in which we participate. Our greatest potential withdrawal liability is related to the Central States, Southeast and Southwest Areas Pension Fund, which is in \"critical and declining\" status and has been for a number of years based on that plan's annual. 15. Table of Contents. Form 5500 filings, meaning it was less than 65% funded. The plan is currently projected to become insolvent in 2025. It is unclear what will happen to this plan in the future, and the effects and consequences of the plan's insolvency are currently unknown. Future funding requirements and related charges associated with multiemployer plans in which we participate could have a material negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. The costs of providing employee benefits have escalated, and liabilities under certain plans may be triggered due to our actions or the actions of others, which may adversely affect our profitability and liquidity.. We sponsor various defined benefit and defined contribution retirement plans, as well as contribute to various multiemployer pension plans on behalf of our employees. Changes in interest rates or in the market value of plan assets could affect the funded status of our pension plans. This could cause volatility in our benefits costs and increase future funding requirements of our plans. Pension and post-retirement costs also may be significantly affected by changes in key actuarial assumptions including anticipated rates of return on plan assets and the discount rates used in determining the projected benefit obligation and annual periodic pension costs. Recent changes in federal laws require plan sponsors to eliminate, over defined time periods, the underfunded status of plans that are subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act rules and regulations. Certain of our defined benefit retirement plans are less than fully funded. Facility closings may trigger cash payments or previously unrecognized obligations under our defined benefit retirement plans, and the costs of such liabilities may be significant or may compromise our ability to close facilities or otherwise conduct cost reduction initiatives on time and within budget. A significant increase in future funding requirements could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition to potential changes in funding requirements, the costs of maintaining our pension plans are impacted by various factors including increases in healthcare costs and legislative changes.. Changes in our credit ratings may have a negative impact on our future financing costs or the availability of capital.. Some of our debt is rated by Standard & Poor's, Moody's Investors Service and Fitch Ratings, and there are a number of factors beyond our control with respect to these ratings. Our credit ratings are currently considered to be below \"investment grade.\" Although the interest rate on our existing credit facilities is not affected by changes in our credit ratings, such ratings or any further rating downgrades may impair our ability to raise additional capital in the future on terms that are acceptable to us, if at all, may cause the value of our securities to decline and may have other negative implications with respect to our business. Ratings reflect only the views of the ratings agency issuing the rating, are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the ratings agency issuing the rating. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating.. Unfavorable economic conditions may adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The dairy industry is sensitive to changes in international, national and local general economic conditions. Future economic decline or increased income disparity could have an adverse effect on consumer spending patterns. Increased levels of unemployment, increased consumer debt levels and other unfavorable economic factors could further adversely affect consumer demand for products we sell or distribute, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations. Consumers may not return to historical spending patterns following any future reduction in consumer spending.. Legal and Regulatory Risks. Litigation could expose us to significant liabilities and may have a material adverse impact on our reputation and business.. Scrutiny of the dairy industry has resulted, and may continue to result, in litigation against us. Such lawsuits are expensive to defend, divert management's attention and may result in significant judgments or settlements. In some cases, these awards would be trebled by statute and successful plaintiffs are entitled to an award of attorneys' fees. Depending on its size, such a judgment or settlement could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and impair our ability to continue operations. We may not be able to pay such judgment or to post a bond for an appeal, given our financial condition and our available cash resources. In addition, depending on its size, failure to pay such a judgment or failure to post an appeal bond could cause us to breach certain provisions of our credit facilities. In either of these or other circumstances, we may seek a waiver of or amendment to the terms of our credit facilities, but we may not be able to obtain such a waiver or amendment. Failure to obtain such a waiver or amendment would materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and could impair our ability to continue operations. Moreover, such litigation could expose us to negative publicity, which could adversely affect our brands, reputation and/or customer preference for our products.. We were previously a party to a private antitrust lawsuit brought by two plaintiffs that was scheduled for trial beginning March 28, 2017. Prior to trial, the plaintiffs agreed with us to settle the lawsuit. We agreed to pay settlements to the plaintiffs and the parties resolved all outstanding claims in the litigation and agreed to voluntarily dismiss the litigation. The litigation was. 16. Table of Contents. dismissed on March 21, 2017 with respect to one plaintiff, and on March 26, 2017 with respect to the other plaintiff. The two plaintiffs initiated the case in 2007 as a putative class action. Although the court refused to certify the case as a class action, the court's denial of class certification did not act as an adjudication on the merits for the class of purchasers the named plaintiffs proposed to represent. Therefore, we may be subject to subsequent litigation by such purchasers.. Our results of operations could be adversely affected if actual losses from legal claims against us exceed our reserves.. We are party to various litigation claims and legal proceedings. We evaluate these litigation claims and legal proceedings to assess the likelihood of unfavorable outcomes and to estimate, if possible, the amount of potential losses. Based on these assessments and estimates, we establish reserves and/or disclose the relevant litigation claims or legal proceedings, as appropriate. These assessments and estimates are based on the information available to management at the time and involve a significant amount of management judgment. Actual outcomes or losses may differ materially from our current assessments and estimates. If the amounts we are required to pay as a result of claims against us substantially exceed the sums anticipated by our reserves, if established, the need to pay those amounts could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Labor disputes could adversely affect us.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 37% of our employees were covered under collective bargaining agreements. Our collective bargaining agreements generally run in duration from 3 to 5 years. At any given time, we may face a number of union organizing drives. When we negotiate collective bargaining agreements or terms, we and the union may disagree on important issues which, in turn, could possibly lead to a strike, work slowdown or other job actions at one or more of our locations. In the event of a strike, work slowdown or other labor unrest, or if we are unable to negotiate labor contracts on reasonable terms, our ability to supply our products to customers could be impaired, which could result in reduced revenue and customer claims, and may distract our management from focusing on our business and strategic priorities. In addition, our ability to make short-term adjustments to control compensation and benefits costs or otherwise to adapt to changing business requirements may be limited by the terms of our collective bargaining agreements.. Our business is subject to various environmental and health and safety laws and regulations, which may increase our compliance costs or subject us to liabilities.. Our business operations are subject to numerous requirements in the United States relating to the protection of the environment and health and safety matters, including the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response and the Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended, as well as similar state and local statutes and regulations in the United States. These laws and regulations govern, among other things, air emissions and the discharge of wastewater and other pollutants, the use of refrigerants, the handling and disposal of hazardous materials, and the cleanup of contamination in the environment. The costs of complying with these laws and regulations may be significant, particularly relating to wastewater and ammonia treatment which are capital intensive. Additionally, we could incur significant costs, including fines, penalties and other sanctions, cleanup costs and third-party claims for property damage or personal injury as a result of the failure to comply with, or liabilities under, environmental, health and safety requirements. New legislation, as well as current federal and other state regulatory initiatives relating to these environmental matters, could require us to replace equipment, install additional pollution controls, purchase various emission allowances or curtail operations. These costs could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Changes in laws, regulations and accounting standards could have an adverse effect on our financial results.. We are subject to federal, state and local governmental laws and regulations, including those promulgated by the FDA, the USDA, U.S. Department of the Treasury, IRS, Environmental Protection Agency (\"EPA\"), FTC, Department of Transportation, Department of Labor, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 and numerous related regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Financial Accounting Standards Board. Changes in federal, state or local laws, or the interpretations of such laws and regulations, may negatively impact our financial results or our ability to market our products. Any or all of these risks could adversely impact our financial results.. Violations of laws or regulations related to the food industry, as well as new laws or regulations or changes to existing laws or regulations related to the food industry, could adversely affect our business.. The food production and marketing industry is subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations, including food safety requirements related to the ingredients, manufacture, processing, packaging, storage, marketing, advertising, labeling quality and distribution of our products, as well as those related to worker health and workplace safety. Our activities are subject to extensive regulation. We are regulated by, among other federal and state authorities, the FDA, the EPA, the FTC, and the U.S. Departments of Agriculture, Commerce, Labor and Transportation. Federal legislation passed in 2016 directs the USDA to adopt rules requiring the labeling of products containing or derived from genetically engineered organisms. New rules adopted by the. 17. Table of Contents. FDA redesigned the Nutrition Facts label and requires all packaged goods to use the new label by July 2018 (although the FDA has taken formal steps to extend that deadline, which is currently expected to be January 2020). Change and implementation of new labels on our products to comply with these rules may result in significant costs to our business.  In addition, a growing number of local ordinances across the country have imposed a tax on sweetened beverages, which may have a negative impact on our sales, results of operations and our business. In addition, a number of states are considering similar laws. Governmental regulations also affect taxes and levies, healthcare costs, energy usage, immigration and other labor issues, all of which may have a direct or indirect effect on our business or those of our customers or suppliers.. In addition, our volumes may be impacted by the level of government spending that supports grocery purchases because such amounts may impact the level of consumer spending on fluid dairy products. As a meaningful portion of Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (\"SNAP\") benefits are spent in the dairy category, we are cautious about the impact that any change or reduction in these benefits could have on consumer spending in the dairy category. Any reduction or change in SNAP benefits or the suspension, curtailment, or expiration of other government spending programs, such as the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children, could have an adverse impact upon our volumes and our results of operations.. In addition, the marketing and advertising of our products could make us the target of claims relating to alleged false or deceptive advertising under federal and state laws and regulations, and we may be subject to initiatives that limit or prohibit the marketing and advertising of our products to children. Changes in these laws or regulations or the introduction of new laws or regulations could increase our compliance costs, increase other costs of doing business for us, our customers or our suppliers, or restrict our actions, which could adversely affect our results of operations. In some cases, increased regulatory scrutiny could interrupt distribution of our products or force changes in our production processes or procedures (or force us to implement new processes or procedures). For example, the FDA has finalized new regulations pursuant to the Food Safety Modernization Act of 2011 which requires, among other things, that food facilities conduct contamination hazard analysis, implement risk-based preventive controls and develop track-and-trace capabilities, and there could be unforeseen issues, requirements and costs that arise as we come into compliance with these new rules by the various required compliance dates, with the last new rule to become effective in 2019. Further, if we are found to be in violation of applicable laws and regulations in these areas, we could be subject to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions or recalls, as well as potential criminal sanctions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business."
