[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. Changes in general economic conditions, including economic uncertainty, have adversely impacted our business and results of operations, may continue to do so and may do so in the future.. Purchases at our restaurants are discretionary for consumers, and we are therefore susceptible to economic slowdowns. We believe that consumers generally are more willing to make discretionary purchases, including high-end restaurant meals, during favorable economic conditions. Economic uncertainty, including high unemployment and financial market volatility and unpredictability, including as a result of events similar to the recent economic recession, and the related reduction in consumer confidence, can negatively affect customer traffic and sales throughout our industry, including our segment. If the economy experiences a new downturn or there are continued uncertainties regarding U.S. budgetary and fiscal policies, including recent tax legislation, our customers, including our business clientele, may reduce their level of discretionary spending, impacting the frequency with which they choose to dine out or the amount they spend on meals while dining out. We believe the majority of our weekday revenues in our Del Frisco's Double Eagle and Sullivan's concepts are derived from business customers using expense accounts, and our business therefore may be affected by reduced expense account or other business-related dining by our business clientele. If business clientele were to dine less frequently at our restaurants, our business and results of operations would be adversely affected as a result of a reduction in customer traffic or average revenues per customer.. There is also a risk that if uncertain or depressed economic conditions persist for an extended period of time, consumers might make long-lasting changes to their discretionary spending behavior, including dining out less frequently. Difficult economic conditions and recessionary periods may have an adverse impact on our business and our financial condition. Negative economic conditions, coupled with high volatility and uncertainty as to the future global economic landscape, have at times had a negative effect on consumers' discretionary income and consumer confidence and similar impacts can be expected should such conditions recur. A decrease in discretionary spending due to decreases in consumer confidence in the economy or us, or a continued economic slowdown or deterioration in the economy, could adversely affect our business and cause us to, among other things, reduce the number and frequency of new restaurant openings, close restaurants and delay our re-modeling of existing locations.. If our restaurants are not able to compete successfully with other restaurants, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected.. Our industry is intensely competitive with respect to price, quality of service, restaurant location, ambiance of facilities and type and quality of food. A substantial number of national and regional restaurant chains and independently owned restaurants compete with us for customers, restaurant locations and qualified management and other restaurant staff. Our concepts also compete with additional restaurants in the broader upscale dining segment. Some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources, have been in business longer, have greater name recognition and are better established in the markets where our restaurants are located or where we may expand. Our inability to compete successfully with other restaurants may harm our ability to maintain acceptable levels of revenue growth, limit or otherwise inhibit our ability to grow one or more of our concepts, or force us to close one or more of our restaurants. We may also need to evolve our concepts in order to compete with popular new restaurant formats or concepts that emerge from time to time, and we cannot provide any assurance that we will be successful in doing so or that any changes we make to any of our concepts in response will be successful or not adversely affect our profitability. In addition, with improving product offerings at fast casual restaurants and casual dining restaurants combined with the effects of uncertain economic conditions and other factors, consumers may choose less expensive alternatives, which could also negatively affect customer traffic at our restaurants. Any unanticipated slowdown in demand at any of our restaurants due to industry competition may adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Our future growth depends in part on our ability to open new restaurants and operate them profitably, and if we are unable to successfully execute this strategy, our results of operations could be adversely affected.. Our financial success depends in part on management's ability to execute our growth strategy. One key element of our growth strategy is opening new restaurants. We believe there are opportunities to open four to seven new restaurants annually, in near term, generally composed of three to four Del Frisco's Double Eagles and one to three Grilles, with new openings of our Double Eagle concept likely serving as the primary driver of new unit growth in the near term. In fiscal 2017, we opened one Del Frisco's Double Eagle in Plano, TX and one Grille at Brookfield Place in New York City, NY.  In fiscal 2018, we expect to open three to four Double Eagles and two to three Grilles. For the opening of a new restaurant, we measure our cash investment costs net of landlord contributions and equipment financing, but including pre-opening costs. We target average cash investment costs of $7.0 million to $9.0 million for a new Double Eagle and $3.5 million to $4.5 million for a new Grille or Sullivan's.. 8. Table of Contents. Our ability to open new restaurants and operate them profitably is dependent upon a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including:. • finding quality site locations, competing effectively to obtain quality site locations and reaching acceptable agreements to lease or purchase sites;. • complying with applicable zoning, land use and environmental regulations and obtaining, for an acceptable cost, required permits and approvals;. • having adequate capital for construction and opening costs and efficiently managing the time and resources committed to building and opening each new restaurant;. • timely hiring, training and retaining the skilled management and other employees necessary to meet staffing needs;. • successfully promoting our new locations and competing in their markets;. • acquiring food and other supplies for new restaurants from local suppliers; and. • addressing unanticipated problems or risks that may arise during the development or opening of a new restaurant or entering a new market.. A new restaurant typically experiences a \"ramp-up\" period of approximately 18 months before it achieves our targeted level of performance. This is due to the costs associated with opening a new restaurant, as well as higher operating costs caused by start-up and other temporary inefficiencies associated with opening new restaurants. For example, there are a number of factors which may impact the amount of time and money we commit to the construction and development of new restaurants, including landlord delays, shortages of skilled labor, labor disputes, shortages of materials, delays in obtaining necessary permits, local government regulations and weather interference. Once the restaurant is open, how quickly it achieves a desired level of profitability is impacted by many factors, including the level of market familiarity and acceptance when we enter new markets, as well as the availability of experienced staff and the time required to negotiate reasonable prices for services and other supplies from local suppliers. Our business and profitability may be adversely affected if the \"ramp-up\" period for a new restaurant lasts longer than we expect.. If we are unable to increase our sales or maintain our margins at existing restaurants, our profitability and overall results of operations may be adversely affected.. Another key aspect of our growth strategy is increasing comparable restaurant sales and maintaining restaurant-level margins. Improving comparable restaurant sales and maintaining restaurant-level margins depends in part on whether we achieve revenue growth through increases in the average check and further expand our private dining business at each restaurant. We believe there are opportunities to increase the average check at our restaurants through, for example, selective introduction of higher priced items and increases in menu pricing. We also believe that expanding and enhancing our private dining capacity will also increase our restaurant sales, as our private dining business typically has a higher average check and higher overall margins than regular dining room business. However, these strategies may prove unsuccessful, especially in times of economic hardship, as customers may not order or enjoy higher priced items and discretionary spending on private dining events may decrease. Select price increases have not historically adversely impacted customer traffic; however, we expect that there is a price level at which point customer traffic would be adversely affected. It is also possible that these changes could cause our sales volume to decrease. If we are not able to increase our sales at existing restaurants for any reason, our profitability and results of operations could be adversely affected.. The failure to successfully accelerate development of our Del Frisco's Double Eagle Steakhouse concept could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We operated 13 Del Frisco's Double Eagle Steakhouse locations as of the end of fiscal 2017. During fiscal 2017, we began accelerating development of the Del Frisco's Double Eagle concept, and plan to annually open three to four restaurants, with new openings of our Double Eagle concept likely serving as the primary driver of new unit growth in the near term. Our ability to execute this initiative will require significant capital expenditures and management attention. If the \"ramp-up\" period for one or more of the new Del Frisco's Double Eagle restaurants does not meet our expectations, our operating results may be adversely affected. In addition, we are targeting restaurant-level EBITDA margins of between 25% and 35% for the Del Frisco's Double Eagle concept. However, because we face new challenges at the Del Frisco's Double Eagle restaurants as we enter new markets, our operating margins may not reach these levels, requiring us to take action, including possible changes to our pricing and menu offering strategies, and we may not be successful in recouping our increased investments in the concept. We may not be able to attract enough customers to meet targeted levels of performance at new restaurants because potential customers may be unfamiliar with our concept or the atmosphere or menu might not appeal to them. In addition, opening a new. 9. Table of Contents. Del Frisco's Double Eagle restaurant in one of our existing markets could reduce the revenue of our existing restaurants in that market. If we cannot successfully execute our growth strategies for the Del Frisco's Double Eagle concept, or if customer traffic generated by a Del Frisco's Double Eagle restaurant results in a decline in customer traffic at one of our other restaurants in the same market, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected... The failure to continue to successfully develop our Grille concept could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We launched our newest concept, the Grille, in the third quarter of fiscal 2011 with the opening of our New York City location, and have grown the concept to 24 locations as of the end of fiscal 2017. Our ability to continue to succeed with this new concept will require significant capital expenditures and management attention and is subject to certain risks in addition to those of opening a new restaurant under one of our existing concepts, including customer acceptance of and competition to that concept. If the \"ramp-up\" period for our Grille restaurants and for our development of concepts in general does not meet our expectations, our operating results may be adversely affected. In addition, we are targeting restaurant-level EBITDA margins of between 25% and 35% for the Grille. However, because we face new challenges at the Grille as we enter new markets, we cannot provide any assurance that our operating margins will achieve these levels. As a result, we may need to adjust our pricing and menu offering strategies. We may not be successful enough to recoup our investments in the concept. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in further developing and growing the Grille or in developing and growing any other new concept to a point where it will become profitable or generate positive cash flow or that it will prove to be a platform for future expansion. We may not be able to attract enough customers to meet targeted levels of performance at new restaurants because potential customers may be unfamiliar with our concept or the atmosphere or menu might not appeal to them. Some Grille locations may even operate at a loss, which could have a material adverse effect on our overall operating results. In addition, opening a new restaurant concept such as a Grille in an existing market could reduce the revenue of our existing restaurants in that market. If we cannot successfully execute our growth strategies for the Grille, or if customer traffic generated by the Grille results in a decline in customer traffic at one of our other restaurants in the same market, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected.. Our growth, including the continued development of the Del Frisco's Double Eagle and Grille concepts, may strain our infrastructure and resources, which could delay the opening of new restaurants and adversely affect our ability to manage our existing restaurants.. We plan to continue new restaurant growth, including the continued development and promotion of the Del Frisco's Double Eagle concept. We believe there are opportunities to open four to seven restaurants annually, generally composed of three to four Double Eagles and one to three Grilles, with new openings of our Double Eagle concept likely serving as the primary driver of new unit growth in the near term. During fiscal 2018, we expect to open three to four Double Eagles and two to three Grilles. We typically target an average cash investment of approximately $7.0 million to $9.0 million per restaurant for a Double Eagle restaurant and $3.5 million to $4.5 million for a Grille or Sullivan's, in each case net of landlord contributions and equipment financing and including pre-opening costs. In addition, we are currently \"refreshing\" a number of our Del Frisco's Double Eagles and Sullivan's to, among other things, add additional seating, a new champagne lounge, private dining space and patio seating. During fiscal 2017, we completed remodels of two Double Eagles and three Sullivan's. We expect to complete two to four refreshes each year at an approximate cost of $0.5 million to $2.0 million per location. This growth and these investments will increase our operating complexity and place increased demands on our management as well as our human resources, purchasing and site management teams. While we have committed significant resources to expanding our current restaurant management systems, financial and management controls and information systems in connection with our recent growth, if this infrastructure is insufficient to support this expansion, our ability to open new restaurants, including the continued development and promotion of the Double Eagle and the Grille, and to manage our existing restaurants, including the expansion of our private dining business, would be adversely affected. If we fail to continue to improve our infrastructure or if our improved infrastructure fails, we may be unable to implement our growth strategies or maintain current levels of operating performance in our existing restaurants.. Our New York Del Frisco's Double Eagle location represents a significant portion of our revenues, and any significant downturn in its business or disruption in the operation of this location could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our New York Del Frisco's Double Eagle location represented approximately 11%, 11% and 12% of our revenues in fiscal 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Accordingly, we are susceptible to any fluctuations in the business at our New York Double Eagle location, whether as a result of adverse economic conditions, negative publicity, changes in customer preferences or for other reasons. In addition, any natural disaster, prolonged inclement weather, act of terrorism or national emergency, accident, system failure or other unforeseen event in or around New York City could result in a temporary or permanent closing of this location, could influence potential customers to avoid this geographic region or this location in particular or otherwise lead to a. 10. Table of Contents. decrease in revenues. Any significant interruption in the operation of this location or other reduction in sales could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Negative customer experiences or negative publicity surrounding our restaurants or other restaurants could adversely affect sales in one or more of our restaurants and make our brands less valuable.. The quality of our food and our restaurant facilities are two of our competitive strengths. Therefore, adverse publicity, whether or not accurate, relating to food quality, public health concerns, illness, safety, injury or government or industry findings concerning our restaurants, restaurants operated by other foodservice providers or others across the food industry supply chain could affect us more than it would other restaurants that compete primarily on price or other factors. An unrelated restaurant in Louisville, Kentucky has the right to use, and uses, a specific registration of the Del Frisco's name pursuant to a concurrent use agreement, as described in greater detail in \"Item 1. Business\". We do not own or control the Louisville restaurant, but any adverse publicity relating to those operations could negatively affect us. In addition, although we would not be legally liable for any such failure, because the Louisville restaurant operates under one of our brand names, we may be subject to litigation as a result of the restaurant's failure to comply with food quality, preparation or other applicable rules and regulations. If customers perceive or experience a reduction in our food quality, service or ambiance or in any way believe we have failed to deliver a consistently positive experience, the value and popularity of one or more of our concepts could suffer.. Negative publicity relating to the consumption of beef, including in connection with food-borne illness, could result in reduced consumer demand for our menu offerings, which could reduce sales.. Instances of food-borne illness, including Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy, which is also known as BSE or mad cow disease, aphthous fever, which is also known as hoof and mouth disease, as well as hepatitis A, lysteria, salmonella and e-coli, whether or not found in the United States or traced directly to one of our suppliers or our restaurants, could reduce demand for our menu offerings. Any negative publicity relating to these and other health-related matters, such as the confirmation of a case of mad cow disease in a dairy cow in California in April 2012, may affect consumers' perceptions of our restaurants and the food that we offer, reduce customer visits to our restaurants and negatively impact demand for our menu offerings. Adverse publicity relating to any of these matters, beef in general or other similar concerns could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Increases in the prices of, and/or reductions in the availability of commodities, primarily beef, could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Our profitability depends in part on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in commodity costs, which have a substantial effect on our total costs. For example, we purchase large quantities of beef, particularly USDA prime beef and premium choice beef. Our beef costs represented approximately 33%, 32% and 34% of our food and beverage costs during fiscal 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and we currently do not purchase beef pursuant to any long-term contractual arrangements with fixed pricing or use futures contracts or other financial risk management strategies to reduce our exposure to potential price fluctuations. The market for USDA prime beef and premium choice beef is particularly volatile and is subject to extreme price fluctuations due to seasonal shifts, climate conditions, the price of feed, industry demand, energy demand and other factors. Although we currently do not engage in futures contracts or other financial risk management strategies with respect to potential price fluctuations, from time to time, we may opportunistically enter into fixed price beef supply contracts or contracts for other food products or consider other risk management strategies with regard to our meat and other food costs to minimize the impact of potential price fluctuations. This practice could help stabilize our food costs during times of fluctuating prices, although there can be no assurances that this will occur. However, because our restaurants feature USDA prime beef and premium choice beef, we generally expect to purchase these types of beef even if we have not entered into any such arrangements and the price increased significantly. The prices of other commodities can affect our costs as well, including corn and other grains, which are ingredients we use regularly and are also used as cattle feed and therefore affect the price of beef. Energy prices can also affect our bottom line, as increased energy prices may cause increased transportation costs for beef and other supplies, as well as increased costs for the utilities required to run each restaurant. Historically we have passed increased commodity and other costs on to our customers by increasing the prices of our menu items. While we believe these price increases did not historically affect our customer traffic, there can be no assurance additional price increases would not affect future customer traffic. If prices increase in the future and we are unable to anticipate or mitigate these increases, or if there are shortages for USDA Prime beef and premium choice beef, our business and results of operations would be adversely affected.. We depend upon frequent deliveries of food and other supplies, in most cases from a limited number of suppliers, which subjects us to the possible risks of shortages, interruptions and price fluctuations.. Our ability to maintain consistent quality throughout our restaurants depends in part upon our ability to acquire fresh products, including USDA prime beef and premium choice beef, fresh seafood, quality produce and related items from reliable sources in accordance with our specifications. In addition, we rely on one or a limited number of suppliers for certain ingredients. For. 11. Table of Contents. example, Stock Yards, a division of U.S. Foods, Inc., is the primary supplier of the beef for all of our restaurants and has been since June 2009. This dependence on one or a limited number of suppliers, as well as the limited number of alternative suppliers of USDA prime beef and premium choice beef and quality seafood, subjects us to the possible risks of shortages, interruptions and price fluctuations in beef and seafood. If any of our suppliers is unable to obtain financing necessary to operate its business or its business is otherwise adversely affected, does not perform adequately or otherwise fails to distribute products or supplies to our restaurants, or terminates or refuses to renew any contract with us, particularly with respect to one of the suppliers on which we rely heavily for specific ingredients, we may be unable to find an alternative supplier in a short period of time or if we can, it may not be on acceptable terms. Our inability to replace our suppliers in a short period of time on acceptable terms could increase our costs or cause shortages at our restaurants that may cause us to remove certain items from a menu, increase the price of certain offerings or temporarily close a restaurant, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. We depend on the services of key executives, and our business and growth strategy could be materially harmed if we were to lose these executives and were unable to replace them with and successfully transition to executives of equal experience and capabilities.. Some of our senior executives, such as Norman J. Abdallah, our Chief Executive Officer, are particularly important to our success. Senior executives are important to our business because they have been instrumental in setting our strategic direction, operating our business, identifying, recruiting and training key personnel, identifying expansion opportunities and arranging necessary financing. We have employment agreements with all members of senior management; however, we cannot prevent our executives from terminating their employment with us. Losing the services of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business until a suitable replacement could be found. We also believe that they could not quickly be replaced with executives of equal experience and capabilities and their successors may not be as effective. We do not maintain key person life insurance policies on any of our executives.. Changes in consumer preferences and discretionary spending patterns could adversely impact our business and results of operations.. The restaurant industry is characterized by the continual introduction of new concepts and is subject to rapidly changing consumer preferences, tastes and eating and purchasing habits. Our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and respond quickly to changing consumer preferences, as well as other factors affecting the restaurant industry, including new market entrants and demographic changes. Shifts in consumer preferences away from upscale steakhouses or beef, which is a significant component of our Del Frisco's Double Eagle and Sullivan's concepts' menus and appeal, whether as a result of economic, competitive or other factors, could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Restaurant companies, including ours, have been the target of class action lawsuits and other proceedings alleging, among other things, violations of federal and state workplace and employment laws. Proceedings of this nature, if successful, could result in our payment of substantial damages.. In recent years, we and other restaurant companies have been subject to lawsuits, including class action lawsuits, alleging violations of federal and state laws regarding workplace and employment matters, discrimination and similar matters. A number of these lawsuits have resulted in the payment of substantial damages by the defendants. Similar lawsuits have been instituted from time to time alleging violations of various federal and state wage and hour laws regarding, among other things, employee meal deductions, the sharing of tips amongst certain employees, overtime eligibility of assistant managers and failure to pay for all hours worked.. Occasionally, our customers file complaints or lawsuits against us alleging that we are responsible for some illness or injury they suffered at or after a visit to one of our restaurants, including actions seeking damages resulting from food-borne illness and relating to notices with respect to chemicals contained in food products required under state law. We are also subject to a variety of other claims from third parties arising in the ordinary course of our business, including personal injury claims, contract claims and claims alleging violations of federal and state laws. In addition, our restaurants are subject to state \"dram shop\" or similar laws which generally allow a person to sue us if that person was injured by a legally intoxicated person who was wrongfully served alcoholic beverages at one of our restaurants. The restaurant industry has also been subject to a growing number of claims that the menus and actions of restaurant chains have led to the obesity of certain of their customers.. Regardless of whether any claims against us are valid or whether we are liable, claims may be expensive to defend and may divert time and money away from our operations. In addition, they may generate negative publicity, which could reduce customer traffic and sales. Although we maintain what we believe to be adequate levels of insurance, insurance may not be available at all or in sufficient amounts to cover any liabilities with respect to these or other matters. A judgment or other liability in excess of our insurance coverage for any claims or any adverse publicity resulting from claims could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. 12. Table of Contents. Our business is subject to substantial government regulation.. Our business is subject to extensive federal, state and local government regulation, including regulations related to the preparation and sale of food, the sale of alcoholic beverages, the sale and use of tobacco, zoning and building codes, land use and employee, health, sanitation and safety matters. For example, the preparation, storing and serving of food and the use of certain ingredients is subject to heavy regulation. Alcoholic beverage control regulations govern various aspects of our restaurants' daily operations, including the minimum age of patrons and employees, hours of operation, advertising, wholesale purchasing and inventory control, handling and storage. Typically, our restaurants' licenses to sell alcoholic beverages must be renewed annually and may be suspended or revoked at any time for cause. In addition, because we operate in a number of different states, we are also required to comply with a number of different laws covering the same topics. The failure of any of our restaurants to timely obtain and maintain necessary governmental approvals, including liquor or other licenses, permits or approvals required to serve alcoholic beverages or food could delay or prevent the opening of a new restaurant or prevent regular day-to-day operations, including the sale of alcoholic beverages, at a restaurant that is already operating, any of which would adversely affect our business and results of operations.. In addition, the costs of operating our restaurants may increase if there are changes in laws governing minimum hourly wages, working conditions, overtime and tip credits, health care, workers' compensation insurance rates, unemployment tax rates, sales taxes or other laws and regulations such as those governing access for the disabled, including the Americans with Disabilities Act. For example, the Federal Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, or PPACA, which was enacted on March 23, 2010, among other things, includes guaranteed coverage requirements and imposes new taxes on health insurers and health care benefits that could increase the costs of providing health benefits to employees. In addition, because we have a significant number of restaurants located in certain states, regulatory changes in these states could have a disproportionate impact on our business. If any of the foregoing increased costs and we were unable to offset the change by increasing our menu prices or by other means, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Government regulation can also affect customer traffic at our restaurants. A number of states, counties and cities have enacted menu labeling laws requiring multi-unit restaurant operators to disclose certain nutritional information. For example, the PPACA establishes a uniform, federal requirement for restaurant chains with 20 or more locations operating under the same trade name and offering substantially the same menus to post nutritional information on their menus, including the total number of calories. The law also requires such restaurants to provide to consumers, upon request, a written summary of detailed nutritional information, including total calories and calories from fat, total fat, saturated fat, cholesterol, sodium, total carbohydrates, complex carbohydrates, sugars, dietary fiber, and total protein in each serving size or other unit of measure, for each standard menu item. The FDA is also permitted to require additional nutrient disclosures, such as trans-fat content. In 2015, our Grille concept became subject to the requirements to post nutritional information on our menus and, based on current strategic outlook, our Double Eagle concept may become subject to these requirements in the near future. The FDA compliance deadline was postponed until May 7, 2018.  We intend to comply with these requirements to the extent required for all concepts. Our compliance with the PPACA or other similar laws to which we may become subject could reduce demand for our menu offerings, reduce customer traffic and/or reduce average revenue per customer, which would have an adverse effect on our revenue. Any reduction in customer traffic related to these or other government regulations could affect revenues and adversely affect our business and results of operations.. To the extent that governmental regulations impose new or additional obligations on our suppliers, including, without limitation, regulations relating to the inspection or preparation of meat, food and other products used in our business, product availability could be limited and the prices that our suppliers charge us could increase. We may not be able to offset these costs through increased menu prices, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. If any of our restaurants were unable to serve particular food products, even for a short period of time, or if we are unable to offset increased costs, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Labor shortages or changes to wage laws could harm our business.. Our success depends in part upon our ability to attract, motivate and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, including restaurant managers, kitchen staff and servers, necessary to keep pace with our anticipated expansion schedule and meet the needs of our existing restaurants. A sufficient number of qualified individuals of the requisite caliber to fill these positions may be in short supply in some communities. Competition in these communities for qualified staff could require us to pay higher wages and provide greater benefits. Any inability to recruit and retain qualified individuals may also delay the planned openings of new restaurants and could adversely impact our existing restaurants. Any such inability to retain or recruit qualified employees, increased costs of attracting qualified employees or delays in restaurant openings could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. 13. Table of Contents. In addition, we have a substantial number of hourly employees who are paid wage rates at or based on the federal or state minimum wage and who rely on tips as a large portion of their income. Any changes in the city, state, or federal laws affecting the wages we pay our employees, including an increase in the minimum wage, such as the 15% increase in the minimum wage on January 1, 2017 in Seattle, Washington to $15.00 per hour or the 17% increase in minimum wage in California to $10.50, could increase our costs and have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Certain other states in which we operate restaurants have adopted or are considering adopting minimum wage statutes that exceed the federal minimum wage as well. We may be unable or unwilling to increase our prices in order to pass these increased labor costs on to our customers, in which case, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.. We occupy most of our restaurants under long-term non-cancelable leases for which we may remain obligated to perform under even after a restaurant closes, and we may be unable to renew leases at the end of their terms.. All of our restaurants are located in leased premises. Many of our current leases are non-cancelable and typically have initial terms ranging from 5 to 15 years with two to four 5-year extension options. We believe that leases that we enter into in the future will be on substantially similar terms. If we were to close or fail to open a restaurant at a location we lease, we would generally remain committed to perform our obligations under the applicable lease, which could include, among other things, payment of the base rent for the balance of the lease term. For example, in fiscal year 2017, we paid $0.5 million to exit two Sullivan's leases, in fiscal 2016, we paid $0.9 million to exit one Sullivan's lease, and in fiscal 2015, we paid $1.4 million to exit two Grille leases. Our obligation to continue making rental payments and fulfilling other lease obligations in respect of leases for closed or unopened restaurants could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Alternatively, at the end of the lease term and any renewal period for a restaurant, we may be unable to renew the lease without substantial additional cost, if at all. If we cannot renew such a lease we may be forced to close or relocate a restaurant, which could subject us to construction and other costs and risks. If we are required to make payments or otherwise perform under one of our leases after a restaurant closes or if we are unable to renew our restaurant leases, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.. The impact of negative economic factors, including the availability of credit, on our landlords and other retail center tenants could negatively affect our financial results.. Negative effects on our existing and potential landlords due to any inaccessibility of credit and other unfavorable economic factors may, in turn, adversely affect our business and results of operations. If our landlords are unable to obtain financing or remain in good standing under their existing financing arrangements, they may be unable to provide construction contributions or satisfy other lease covenants to us. If any landlord files for bankruptcy protection, the landlord may be able to reject our lease in the bankruptcy proceedings. While we would have the option to retain our rights under the lease, we could not compel the landlord to perform any of its obligations and would be left with damages as our sole recourse. In addition, if our landlords are unable to obtain sufficient credit to continue to properly manage their retail sites, we may experience a drop in the level of quality of such retail centers. Our development of new restaurants may also be adversely affected by the negative financial situations of developers and potential landlords. In recent years, many landlords have delayed or cancelled development projects (as well as renovations of existing projects) due to the instability in the credit markets and declines in consumer spending, which has reduced the number of high-quality locations available that we would consider for our new restaurants. In addition, several other tenants at retail centers in which we are located or where we have executed leases have ceased operations or, in some cases, have deferred openings or failed to open after committing to do so. These failures may lead to reduced customer traffic and a general deterioration in the surrounding retail centers in which our restaurants are located and may contribute to lower customer traffic at our restaurants. If any of the foregoing affect any of our landlords or their other retail tenants our business and results of operations may be adversely affected.. Fixed rental payments account for a significant portion of our operating expenses, which increases our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions and could limit our operating and financing flexibility.. Payments under our operating leases account for a significant portion of our operating expenses, and we expect the new restaurants we open in the future will similarly be leased by us. Specifically, payments under our operating leases accounted for 13.7%, 13.3% and 13.2% of our restaurant operating expenses in fiscal 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Our substantial operating lease obligations could have significant negative consequences, including:. • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing;. • requiring a substantial portion of our available cash flow to be applied to our rental obligations, thus reducing cash available for other purposes;. • limiting our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business or the industry in which we compete; and. 14. Table of Contents. • placing us at a disadvantage with respect to some of our competitors.. We depend on cash flow from operations to pay our lease obligations and to fulfill our other cash needs. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operating activities and sufficient funds are not otherwise available to us from borrowings under our credit facility or other sources, we may not be able to meet our operating lease obligations, grow our business, respond to competitive challenges or fund our other liquidity and capital needs, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Any future indebtedness we may incur may limit our operational and financing flexibility and negatively impact our business.. We currently have a credit facility that provides for a revolving loan of up to $50.0 million. There were $21.5 million outstanding borrowings under this facility at December 26, 2017. We may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Our credit facility, and other debt instruments we may enter into in the future, may have important consequences to us, including the following:. • our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes may be impaired;. • the requirement that we use a significant portion of our cash flows from operations to pay interest on any outstanding indebtedness, which would reduce the funds available to us for operations and other purposes; and. • our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate may be limited.. We expect that we will depend primarily on cash generated by our operations for funds to pay our expenses and any amounts due under our credit facility and any other indebtedness we may incur. Our ability to make these payments depends on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors, many of which we cannot control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flows from operations in the future, and our currently anticipated growth in revenues and cash flows may not be realized, either or both of which could result in our being unable to repay indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs. If we do not have enough money, we may be required to refinance all or part of our then existing debt, sell assets or borrow more money, in each case on terms that are not acceptable to us. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements, including our existing credit facility, may restrict us from adopting any of these alternatives. Our ability to recapitalize and incur additional debt in the future could also delay or prevent a change in control of our company, make some transactions more difficult and impose additional financial or other covenants on us. In addition, any significant levels of indebtedness in the future could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that may have proportionately less debt and could make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our business.  Our indebtedness and any inability to pay our debt obligations as they come due or inability to incur additional debt could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. The terms of our credit facility impose operating and financial restrictions on us.. Our credit facility contains a number of significant restrictions and covenants that generally limit our ability to, among other things:. • pay dividends or purchase stock or make other restricted payments to our stockholders;. • incur additional indebtedness;. • issue guarantees;. • make investments;. • use assets as security in other transactions;. • sell assets or merge with or into other companies;. • make capital expenditures;. • enter into transactions with affiliates;. • sell equity or other ownership interests in our subsidiaries; and. • create or permit restrictions on our subsidiaries' ability to make payments to us.. Our credit facility limits our ability to engage in these types of transactions even if we believed that a specific transaction would contribute to our future growth or improve our operating results. Our credit facility also requires us to achieve specified. 15. Table of Contents. financial and operating results and maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. Specifically, these financial covenants require that we have a fixed charge coverage ratio of greater than 1.25 and a leverage ratio of less than 1.25. As of December 26, 2017, we were in compliance with these tests. See Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by events beyond our control. A breach of any of these provisions or our inability to comply with required financial ratios in our credit facility could result in a default under the credit facility in which case the lenders will have the right to declare all borrowings to be immediately due and payable. If we are unable to repay all borrowings when due, whether at maturity or if declared due and payable following a default, the lenders would have the right to proceed against the collateral granted to secure the indebtedness. If we breach these covenants or fail to comply with the terms of the credit facility and the lenders accelerate the amounts outstanding under the credit facility our business and results of operations would be adversely affected.. Our credit facility carries floating interest rates, thereby exposing us to market risk related to changes in interest rates to the extent there are borrowings outstanding thereunder. Accordingly, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. Assuming a one percentage point increase on our base interest rate on our credit facility and a full drawdown on the credit facility, our interest expense would increase by approximately $0.5 million over the course of 12 months.. The failure to enforce and maintain our intellectual property rights could enable others to use names confusingly similar to the names and marks used by our restaurants, which could adversely affect the value of our brands.. We have registered the names Del Frisco's, Double Eagle Steakhouse, Sullivan's, Del Frisco's Grille and have applications pending to register certain other names and logos used by our restaurants as trade names, trademarks or service marks with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and in certain foreign countries. We have the exclusive right to use these trademarks throughout the United States, other than with respect to one restaurant in Louisville, Kentucky, and the 50 mile surrounding area, where an unrelated third party has the right to use a specific registration of the Del Frisco's name in Jefferson County in Kentucky. See Item 1, Business. The success of our business depends in part on our continued ability to utilize our existing trade names, trademarks and service marks as currently used in order to increase our brand awareness. In that regard, we believe that our trade names, trademarks and service marks are valuable assets that are critical to our success. The unauthorized use or other misappropriation of our trade names, trademarks or service marks could diminish the value of our brands and restaurant concepts and may cause a decline in our revenues and force us to incur costs related to enforcing our rights. In addition, the use of trade names, trademarks or service marks similar to ours in some markets may keep us from entering those markets. While we may take protective actions with respect to our intellectual property, these actions may not be sufficient to prevent, and we may not be aware of all incidents of, unauthorized usage or imitation by others. Any such unauthorized usage or imitation of our intellectual property, including the costs related to enforcing our rights, could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Information technology system failures or breaches of our network security, including with respect to confidential information, could interrupt our operations and adversely affect our business.. We and our third party providers rely on our computer systems and network infrastructure across our operations, including point-of-sale processing at our restaurants. Our operations depend upon our ability to protect our computer equipment and systems against damage and disruption from physical theft, fire, power loss, computer and telecommunications failure, workplace wrongdoing, or other natural disasters and catastrophic events, as well as from internal and external security breaches, viruses, worms, malware and other disruptive software and problems. Any damage or failure of our computer systems or network infrastructure or that of our third party providers that causes an interruption in our operations or theirs could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations and subject us to damages, loses, litigation or actions by regulatory authorities.. In addition, because the majority of our restaurant sales are by credit or debit cards, our possession of confidential information may also put us at a greater risk of being targeted by hackers. In the normal course of our business, we have been the target of malicious cyber-attack attempts, and other restaurants and retailers have experienced security breaches in which credit and debit card information of their customers has been stolen. We may also be impacted by breaches of our third-party processors.  If this or another type of breach occurs at one of our restaurants, we may become subject to negative publicity as well as lawsuits or other proceedings for purportedly fraudulent transactions arising out of the actual or alleged theft of our customers' credit or debit card information. Although no breaches have had a direct, material impact on us, we are unable to predict the direct or indirect impact of any future attacks to our business or that of our third party providers.. In addition, numerous and evolving cybersecurity threats, including advanced and persistent cyber-attacks, phishing and social engineering schemes, particularly on internet applications, could compromise the confidentiality, availability, and integrity of data in our systems.  Although we employ both internal resources and external consultants to conduct auditing and testing for. 16. Table of Contents. weaknesses in our systems, controls, firewalls and encryption and intend to maintain and upgrade our security technology and operational procedures to prevent such damage, breaches or other disruptive problems, there can be no assurance that these security measures and procedures will be successful to prevent, counter or otherwise minimize these threats. Any such claim, proceeding or action by a regulatory authority, or any adverse publicity resulting from these allegations, could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to disable or degrade systems change frequently, have become increasingly more complex and sophisticated, and may be difficult to detect for periods of time, we may not anticipate these acts or respond adequately or timely. As these threats continue to evolve and increase, we may be required to devote significant additional resources in order to modify and enhance our security controls and to identify and remediate any security vulnerabilities.. We expect to offer restricted stock and other forms of stock-based compensation in the future, which have the potential to dilute stockholder value and cause the price of our common stock to decline.. As of December 26, 2017, we had awards of stock options, restricted stock and performance stock units outstanding under our equity compensation plan. In addition, we expect to offer restricted stock and performance stock units and other forms of stock-based compensation to our directors, officers and employees in the future. If the options that we issue are exercised, or any restricted stock or other awards that we may issue vests, and those shares are sold into the public market, the market price of our common stock may decline. In addition, the availability of shares of common stock for award under our equity incentive plan, or the grant of restricted stock or other forms of stock-based compensation, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. We are a holding company and depend on the cash flow of our subsidiaries.. We are a holding company with no material assets other than the equity interests of our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries conduct substantially all of our operations and own substantially all of our assets and intellectual property. Consequently, our cash flow and our ability to meet our obligations and pay any future dividends to our stockholders depends upon the cash flow of our subsidiaries and the payment of funds by our subsidiaries directly or indirectly to us in the form of dividends, distributions and other payments. Any inability on the part of our subsidiaries to make payments to us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Provisions of our charter documents, Delaware law and other documents could discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition at a premium price.. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. For example, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include provisions that:. • permit us to issue without stockholder approval preferred stock in one or more series and, with respect to each series, fix the number of shares constituting the series and the designation of the series, the voting powers, if any, of the shares of the series and the preferences and other special rights, if any, and any qualifications, limitations or restrictions, of the shares of the series;. • prevent stockholders from calling special meetings;. • prevent the ability of stockholders to act by written consent;. • limit the ability of stockholders to amend our certificate of incorporation and bylaws;. • require advance notice for nominations for election to the board of directors and for stockholder proposals; and. • establish a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms.. These provisions may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition of our company, including a transaction in which the acquiror may offer a premium price for our common stock.. We are also subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or the DGCL, which, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits us from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder, as defined in that section, for a period of three years following the date on which that stockholder became an interested stockholder. In addition, our equity incentive plan permits vesting of stock options, restricted stock and performance stock units, and payments to be made to the employees thereunder in certain circumstances, in connection with a change of control of our company, which could discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition at a premium price.. 17. Table of Contents. We are no longer an \"emerging growth company\" and, as a result, we are subject to increased disclosure and governance requirements.. We qualified as an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, through the part of fiscal 2017.  We are now an accelerated filer and, as such, we are subject to certain public company requirements that did not previously apply to us. These requirements include:. • compliance with the auditor attestation requirements in the assessment of our internal control over financial reporting;. • full disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation; and. • compliance with the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved.. We expect that the loss of \"emerging growth company\" status and compliance with these additional requirements may substantially increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time consuming and costly. In particular, we expect to incur significant expenses and devote substantial management effort toward ensuring compliance with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Failure to comply with these requirements could also subject us to enforcement actions by the SEC, further increase costs and divert management's attention, damage our reputation and adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition.. We have a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting and our inability to remediate this weakness or otherwise implement and maintain the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, or the inability of our independent registered public accounting firm to provide an unqualified report thereon could have a material adverse effect on us.. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the related rules adopted by the SEC and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, our management is required to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, because we no longer qualify as an \"emerging growth company\" under the JOBS Act, beginning with the audit of our consolidated financial statements for fiscal 2017 included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, our independent registered public accounting firm is required, as part of an integrated audit, to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404. An independent assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting could detect problems that our management's assessment might not detect. Further, if our independent registered public accounting firm concludes that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, investor confidence and our stock price could decline.. In connection with our fiscal 2017 assessment of internal control over financial reporting under Section 404, we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as a result of a control deficiency relating to management's review and accounting treatment of the sale leaseback transaction of our Double Eagle restaurant located in Orlando, Florida completed in December 2017. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim consolidated financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. For a discussion of our internal control over financial reporting and a description of the identified material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting, see Item 9A. Controls and Procedures.. Although this control deficiency did not result in an adjustment to the annual consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ending December 26, 2017, if we are unable to successfully remediate the identified control deficiency, our ability to record, process and report financial information accurately could be impacted, and it may cause us to be unable to report our financial information accurately or on a timely basis.  Any of the foregoing could subject us to adverse regulatory consequences, including an investigation and enforcement action by the SEC or violations of Nasdaq listing rules, result in a breach of the covenants under our financing arrangements or have other adverse effects. There also could be a negative reaction in the financial markets, whether as a result of a loss of investor confidence in us, in the accuracy, completeness and reliability of our consolidated financial statements, or otherwise, and could materially adversely affect us and lead to a decline in the price of our common stock.. Our reported financial results may be adversely affected by changes in accounting principles applicable to us.. Generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the SEC and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change. For example, the FASB, together with the International Accounting Standards Board, has issued a comprehensive set of changes in accounting for leases. The lease accounting model is a \"right of use\" model that assumes that each lease creates an asset (the. 18. Table of Contents. lessee's right to use the leased asset) and a liability (the future rent payment obligations), which should be reflected on a lessee's balance sheet to fairly represent the lease transaction and the lessee's related financial obligations. All of our restaurant leases are accounted for as operating leases, with no related assets and liabilities on our balance sheet. However, changes in lease accounting rules or their interpretation, or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments by us could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance. Any such change could have a significant effect on our reported financial results.. 19. Table of Contents"
