[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. Limited partner interests are inherently different from shares of capital stock of a corporation, although many of the business risks to which we are subject are similar to those that would be faced by a corporation engaged in similar businesses. If any of the following risks were to occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In that case, we might not be able to pay the minimum quarterly distribution on our common units or the trading price of our common units could decline.. Risks Relating to Our Business. Delek, directly or indirectly, accounts for a substantial majority of our gross and contribution margins.  Therefore, we are indirectly subject to the business risks of Delek.  If Delek changes their business strategy, fails to satisfy their obligations under our commercial agreements for any reason or significantly reduces the volumes transported through our pipelines or handled at our terminals or its use of our marketing services, then our revenues, and, consequently, our margins would decline and our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to our unitholders could be adversely affected.. Delek, directly or indirectly, accounted for 85.8%, 90.5% and 90.0% of our gross margin for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and is the only customer for a substantial majority of our assets.  In addition, Delek is, effectively, through its supply and offtake agreement with its assignee, the principal customer for our Lion Pipeline System, our SALA Gathering System and our El Dorado, Memphis and North Little Rock terminals.  Please see Item 1. \"Business - Delek's Crude Oil and Refined Products Supply and Offtake Arrangement.\"  As we expect to continue to derive the substantial majority of our margins from Delek, either directly or indirectly, for the foreseeable future, we are subject to the risk of nonpayment, nonperformance or underperformance by Delek under our commercial agreements.  In addition, we are subject to the risk of nonpayment, nonperformance or underperformance by Delek's assignees.  If Delek were to significantly decrease, or cause the significant decrease of,  the materials transported on our pipelines or the volumes of refined products handled at our terminals, whether because of business or operational difficulties or strategic decisions by Delek's management, it is unlikely that we would be able to utilize any additional capacity on our pipelines or terminal facilities to service third-party customers without substantial capital outlays and delays, if at all, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.    Likewise, the terms of Delek's obligations under its agreements with us are for initial terms ranging from five years to ten years, with options to extend at the election of Delek.  If Delek fails to renew these contracts as they come up for renewal, or if Delek fails to use our assets and services after the expiration of the agreements, or should our agreements be invalidated for any reason, and we are unable to generate revenue from third parties with respect to such assets, we could be materially and adversely affected. See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, for a complete discussion of our material commercial agreements with Delek.   Additionally, any event, whether in our areas of operation or otherwise, that materially and adversely affects Delek's or its assignees' operations, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows may adversely affect us and our business and, therefore, our ability to sustain or increase cash distributions to our unitholders.  Accordingly, we are indirectly subject to the operational and business risks of Delek and its assignees, including, but not limited to, the following:. • the timing and extent of changes in the costs and availability of crude oil and other refinery feedstocks (including prolonged periods of low crude oil prices that could impact production of inland crude oil and reduce the amount of cost advantaged crude oil available and/or the discount of such crude oil as compared to other crude oil) and in the price and demand for Delek's refined products;. • the risk of contract cancellation, non-renewal or failure to perform by Delek's suppliers or customers, and Delek's inability to replace such suppliers, contracts, customers and/or revenues;. • disruptions due to equipment interruption or failure or other events at Delek's facilities, or at third-party facilities on which Delek's business is dependent;. • the effects of economic downturns on Delek's business and the business of its suppliers, customers, business partners and lenders;. • Delek's ability to remain in compliance with its contracts;. • Delek's ability to remain in compliance with the terms of its outstanding and any future indebtedness;. • changes in the cost or availability of third-party pipelines, terminals and other means of delivering and transporting crude oil, feedstocks and refined products;. • state and federal environmental, economic, health and safety, energy and other policies and regulations, and any changes in those policies and regulations;. • environmental incidents and violations and related remediation costs, fines and other liabilities; and. • changes in crude oil and refined product inventory levels and carrying costs.. Additionally, Delek continually considers opportunities presented by third parties with respect to its refinery assets.  These opportunities may include offers to purchase certain assets and joint venture propositions.  Delek may also change its refineries' operations by constructing new facilities, suspending or reducing certain operations, or modifying or closing facilities.  Changes may be considered to meet market demands, to satisfy regulatory requirements or environmental and safety objectives, to improve operational efficiency or for other reasons.. 20. Delek actively manages its assets and operations, and, therefore, changes of some nature, possibly material to its business relationship with us, could occur in the future.. Furthermore, conflicts of interest may arise between Delek and its affiliates, including our general partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. We have no control over Delek or our general partner, and Delek may elect to pursue a business strategy or make other decisions that do not favor us or our business. Please see \" - Risks Relating to Our Partnership Structure - Our general partner and its affiliates, including Delek and the Individual GP Owners, have conflicts of interest with us and limited duties to us and our unitholders, and they may favor their own interests to the detriment of us and our other common unitholders.\". Delek may be unable to integrate successfully the businesses of Old Delek and Alon USA and realize the anticipated benefits of the Delek/Alon Merger.. The Delek/Alon Merger involves the combination of two companies which, prior to July 1, 2017, operated as independent public companies. Delek must devote significant management attention and resources to integrate the business practices and operations of Old Delek and Alon USA. Delek may fail to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits of the Delek/Alon Merger if the integration process takes longer than expected or is more costly than expected, which may adversely affect us. Potential difficulties Delek may encounter in the integration process include the following:. • an inability of Delek to grow as expected and realize the synergies and the other expected benefits of its merger with Alon USA, which became effective as of July 1, 2017, and Delek's acquisition of the remaining interest in Alon USA Partners, LP that Delek did not already own, which became effective as of February 7, 2018;. • as it relates to our potential future growth opportunities, including dropdowns, and other potential benefits, the ability to successfully integrate the businesses of Delek and Alon USA;. • lost sales and customers as a result of certain customers of either of the two companies deciding not to do business with Delek;. • complexities associated with managing the combined businesses;. • integrating personnel from the two companies;. • challenges in the creation of uniform standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems;. • potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses, delays, or regulatory conditions associated with the Delek/Alon Merger; and. • performance shortfalls as a result of the diversion of management's attention caused by integrating the companies' operations.. Our operations and Delek's refining operations, some of which have been in service for decades, are subject to many risks and operational hazards, for which we may not be adequately insured, some of which may result in business interruptions and shutdowns of our or Delek's facilities and liability for damages.  If a significant accident or event occurs that results in a business interruption or shutdown, our operations and financial results could be adversely affected.. Our operations are subject to all of the risks and operational hazards inherent in gathering, transporting and storing crude oil and intermediate and refined and other products, including:. • business interruption due to maintenance and repairs or mechanical or structural failures with respect to our assets, or our facilities or with respect to third-party assets or facilities on which our operations are dependent, including Delek's assets or facilities;. • operational errors that result in a loss of physical integrity or performance in our pipelines and facilities;. • deterioration of the condition of our pipelines and facilities through age, use and disuse;. • damages to our assets and surrounding properties caused by earthquakes, floods, fires, severe weather, explosions and other natural disasters and acts of terrorism;. • damages to and loss of availability of interconnecting third-party pipelines, terminals and other means of delivering crude oil, feedstocks and refined petroleum products;. • the inability of third-party facilities on which our operations are dependent, including Delek's facilities, to complete capital projects and to restart timely refining operations following a shutdown;. • curtailments of operations as a result of severe seasonal weather;. • inadvertent damage to pipelines from construction, farm and utility equipment;. • constrained pipeline and storage infrastructure;. • disruption or failure of information technology systems and network infrastructure due to various causes, including unauthorized access or attacks; and. • other hazards.. These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury and/or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage, as well as business interruptions or shutdowns of our assets and facilities.  Any such event or unplanned shutdown could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 21. In addition, Delek's refining operations, on which our operations are substantially dependent and over which we have no control, are subject to these and other operational hazards and risks inherent in refining crude oil.  A significant accident or event, such as described above at Delek's facilities, could damage our assets, expose us to significant liability and could affect Delek's ability and/or obligation to satisfy the minimum volume commitments under our commercial agreements with Delek, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Further, significant portions of our pipeline systems, including our gathering system, and storage and terminalling facilities have been in service for many decades, which could enhance the risks and operational hazards discussed above.  The age and condition of our systems could also result in increased maintenance or repair expenditures, and any downtime associated with increased maintenance and repair activities could materially reduce our revenue.  Any significant increase in maintenance and repair expenditures or loss of revenue due to the age or condition of our systems could adversely affect our business and results of operations and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. Our insurance policies and other contractual protections from Delek do not cover all losses, costs or liabilities that we may experience, and insurance companies that currently insure companies in the energy industry may cease to do so or substantially increase premiums.. We are insured under Delek's insurance policies, subject to the terms, retentions and limits under those policies.  To the extent Delek experiences losses under the insurance policies, the limits of our coverage may be decreased.  In addition, we are not insured against all potential losses, costs or liabilities.  We could suffer losses for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage.  In addition, because Delek's time element insurance has up to a 60 day waiting period, a significant part, or all, of a business interruption loss could be uninsured.  The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The energy industry is highly capital intensive, and the entire or partial loss of individual facilities or multiple facilities can result in significant costs to both energy industry companies, such as us, and their insurance carriers.  Large energy industry claims could result in significant increases in the level of premium costs and deductibles for participants in the energy industry.  Insurance companies that have historically participated in underwriting energy-related facilities may discontinue that practice, may reduce the insurance coverage they are willing to offer or demand significantly higher premiums or deductibles.  If significant changes occur in the number or financial solvency of insurance underwriters for the energy industry, or if other adverse conditions over which we have no control prevail in the insurance market, we may be unable to obtain and maintain adequate insurance at a reasonable cost.. Furthermore, any loss under the insurance policies experienced by Delek may impact our ability to obtain, renew or arrange for adequate alternative coverage.  The unavailability of full insurance coverage to cover events in which we suffer significant losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Under the Omnibus Agreement, Delek has also agreed to reimburse us for certain losses related to certain asset failures, which provisions expire at various times depending on the asset involved.  See Item 1, \"Business - Commercial Agreements - Other Agreements with Delek.\"  However, upon such expiration, or if Delek were to default under the Omnibus Agreement or otherwise fail to satisfy its obligations to us and insurance coverage was not otherwise available or was otherwise available only at substantial retention levels or cost, we could suffer significant losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow, our ability to pay quarterly distributions to our common unitholders at all, at current levels or in an amount equal to the minimum quarterly distribution or our ability to increase our quarterly distributions in the future could be impaired materially.. Our ability to pay quarterly distributions (including distributions equal to, or in excess of, the minimum quarterly distribution) depends primarily on cash flow, including cash flow from operations, cash from financial reserves, cash from credit facilities and cash from the capital markets, and not solely on profitability, which is affected by non-cash items.  As a result, we may pay cash distributions during periods of losses and may be unable to pay cash distributions during periods of income.  Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow is largely dependent on our ability to manage our business successfully, but may also be affected by economic, financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors beyond our control.  For example, we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on terms that are favorable to us, if at all, and we may be required to fund our working capital requirements principally with cash generated by our operations and borrowings under our credit facilities and not to increase or pay distributions.. We may not have sufficient available cash each quarter to enable us to pay distributions at current levels or at the minimum quarterly distribution.  In addition, even if we are able to make distributions in excess of the minimum quarterly distribution, because the cash we generate will fluctuate from quarter to quarter, quarterly distributions, or any period over period growth in such distributions, may also. 22. fluctuate, or even decrease, from quarter to quarter.  Any failure to pay distributions at expected levels could result in a loss of investor confidence and a decrease in the trading price of our units.. Our assets and operations are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection, pipeline integrity and safety that could require us to make substantial expenditures.  In addition, our business involves the risks of spills, releases and emissions from our facilities, which could require us to make substantial expenditures and subject us to fines and penalties.. Our assets and operations involve the transportation and storage of crude oil and products, which are subject to increasingly stringent and extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations related to the discharge and remediation of materials in the environment, greenhouse gas emissions, waste management, species and habitat preservation, pollution prevention, pipeline integrity and other safety-related regulations, and characteristics and composition of fuels. These laws and regulations require us to comply with various safety requirements regarding the design, installation, testing, construction and operational management of certain of our assets. These requirements have raised operating costs, and compliance with such laws and regulations may cause us to incur potentially material capital expenditures associated with the construction, maintenance and upgrading of equipment and facilities.  Environmental laws and regulations, in particular, are subject to frequent change, and many of them have become and may continue to become more stringent.. Transportation and storage of crude oil and products involves inherent risks of spills and releases and emissions into the air from our facilities, and can subject us to various federal and state laws governing spills and releases, including reporting and remediation obligations.    We have experienced multiple releases and spills from our facilities and are subject to ongoing remediation and/or monitoring projects and enforcement actions.  The costs associated with such obligations can be substantial, as can costs associated with related enforcement matters, including possible fines and penalties. Transportation of crude oil and products over water, or proximate to navigable bodies of water, involves inherent risks (including risks of spills) and could subject us to the provisions of the OPA, the Clean Water Act and similar state environmental laws should a spill occur from our facilities.  See Item 1. \"Business - Governmental Regulation and Environmental Matters - Water.\"  Among other things, the OPA requires us to prepare a facility response plan identifying the personnel and equipment necessary to remove, to the maximum extent practicable, a \"worst case discharge.\"   While our plans are designed to mitigate environmental impacts, such plans may not protect us from all liability associated with the discharge of crude oil or products into navigable waters.. With respect to the releases that have occurred, or for an event that occurs or is discovered in the future, whether in connection with any of our assets or any other facility to which we send or have sent waste or by-products for treatment or disposal, or a facility or assets that we may acquire from time to time as part of our ongoing growth strategy, we could be liable for all costs and penalties associated with the remediation of such facilities under federal, state and local environmental laws or common law.  We may also be liable for personal injury, property damage and natural resource damage claims from third parties alleging contamination from spills or releases from our facilities or operations.  In addition, even if we are insured against such risks, we may be responsible for costs or penalties to the extent our insurers do not fulfill their obligations to us or our insurance policies do not cover such items.  Our failure to comply with these, or any other environmental, pipeline integrity or safety-related laws or regulations, could result in the assessment of administrative, civil or criminal penalties, the imposition of investigatory and remedial liabilities and the issuance of injunctions that may subject us to additional operational constraints.   At present, the United States Department of Justice is pursuing an enforcement action on behalf of the Environmental Protection Agency with regard to potential Clean Water Act violations arising from the 2013 release at our Magnolia Station.  See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings.  In addition, we could incur potentially significant additional expenses should we determine that any of our assets are not in compliance with such laws or regulations in order to bring our assets into compliance.  Any such expenses, penalties or liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.   While we are entitled to reimbursement or indemnification from Delek for certain environmental liabilities under the Omnibus Agreement, such reimbursement or indemnification may not fully cover any damages we may incur, or Delek may default on or otherwise fail to satisfy its obligations to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Further, certain of our pipeline facilities are subject to the pipeline safety regulations of the PHMSA at the DOT.  PHMSA regulates the design, construction, testing, operation, maintenance, reporting and emergency response of crude oil, petroleum products and other hazardous liquid pipeline facilities.. PHMSA has adopted regulations requiring pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs for hazardous liquids pipelines located where a leak or rupture could affect \"high consequence areas\" that are populated or environmentally sensitive areas, although recent rulemaking is extending certain requirements beyond high consequence areas.  PHMSA has also issued regulations that subject certain rural low-stress hazardous liquids pipelines to the integrity management requirements.  The integrity management regulations require operators, including us, to:. • perform ongoing assessments of pipeline integrity;. • identify and characterize applicable threats to pipeline segments that could impact a high consequence area;. • maintain processes for data collection, integration and analysis;. 23. • repair and remediate pipelines as necessary; and. • implement preventive and mitigating actions.. PHMSA also carries out the Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty and Job Creation Act of 2011 (the \"2011 Pipeline Safety Act\"), which increased penalties for safety violations, established additional safety requirements for newly constructed pipelines, imposed new emergency response and incident notification requirements and required studies of certain safety issues that could result in the adoption of new regulatory requirements for existing pipelines.  The Protecting our Infrastructure of Pipelines and Enhancing Safety Act (the \"PIPES Act\") was finalized in 2016, reauthorizing PHMSA's pipeline safety programs through 2019 and directing PHMSA to complete unfinished mandates of the 2011 Pipeline Safety Act.  The PIPES Act also directs PHMSA to provide a report to Congress within eighteen months studying the risks and providing safety recommendations for existing hazardous liquid pipelines as well as giving the agency increased emergency order authority to shut down and restrict pipeline use for unsafe conditions or practices.. We may incur significant costs and liabilities associated with compliance with pipeline safety regulations, and any corresponding repair, remediation, preventive or mitigation measures required for our non-exempt pipeline facilities, including lost cash flows resulting from shutting down our pipelines during the pendency of such repairs.  Moreover, changes to pipeline safety laws and regulations that result in more stringent or costly pipeline integrity management or safety standards could have a material adverse effect on us and similarly situated operators.. A material decrease in wholesale fuel margins or in the quantity of barrels sold to wholesale customers could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to service our indebtedness.. Our wholesale fuel sales in our west Texas business are made to third party customers.  The margins we earn on these sales, and the quantity of barrels we sell, are dependent on a number of factors outside our control, including the overall supply of refined products, overall market conditions, the demand for these products, competition from third parties, the price of ethanol and the value of renewable identification numbers (\"RINs\") we receive from blending renewable fuels.  Specifically, among other circumstances, the margins we earn through these activities may be adversely impacted in the event of excess supply of refined products or decreased customer demand.  These supply and demand dynamics are subject to day-to-day variability and may result in volatility in the margins that we achieve.   These, and other dynamics, may also result in our customers reducing their purchases of product from us in favor of purchasing more product from other refiners or suppliers.  Further, decreases in the value of RINs could impact our margins in our wholesale business.  In addition, our margins are affected by the price we pay for ethanol, which is blended into certain refined products.  We occasionally lock in ethanol prices by committing to purchase ethanol in the future at a certain price.  If the spot price for ethanol at the time we actually take delivery of such product is less than what we paid for it, our margins could be negatively impacted.  With the expiration of the Abilene Contract, a greater portion of the product that we purchase and sell may be subject to price volatility between the time of purchase and the time of sale.  Price risk management programs established to hedge price volatility may not perform as intended, which may negatively impact gross margins.  Extended periods of market conditions that result in us earning margins lower than anticipated or in us selling fewer barrels of product to wholesale customers, for any of the reasons set forth above or otherwise, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our contract counterparties may suspend, reduce or terminate their obligations under our various commercial agreements in certain circumstances, including events of force majeure, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to unitholders.. Our commercial agreements with Delek and third parties provide that the counterparty may, depending on the commercial agreement, suspend, reduce or terminate its obligations to us under the applicable agreement, including the requirement to pay the fees associated with the applicable minimum volume commitments, in the event of (i) a material breach of the agreement by us, (ii) in the case of Delek, Delek deciding to permanently or indefinitely suspend refining operations at one or more of its refineries, or (iii) the occurrence of certain force majeure events that would prevent us or the third party from performing our or its obligations under the applicable agreement.  Force majeure events may include any acts or occurrences that prevent services from being performed either by us or such third party under the applicable agreement, such as:. • acts of God;. • strikes, lockouts or other industrial disturbances;. • acts of the public enemy, wars, blockades, insurrections, riots or civil disturbances;. • storms, floods or washouts;. • arrests or the order of any court or governmental authority having jurisdiction while the same is in force and effect;. • explosions, breakage or accident to machinery, storage tanks or lines of pipe;. • any inability to obtain, or unavoidable delay in obtaining, material or equipment;. • any inability to deliver crude oil or refined products because of a failure of third-party pipelines; and. • any other causes not reasonably within the control of the party claiming suspension and which by the exercise of due diligence such party is unable to prevent or overcome.. 24. Our counterparties have the discretion in certain circumstances to decide to suspend, reduce or terminate their obligations under our commercial agreements notwithstanding the fact that their decisions may significantly and adversely affect us.. Accordingly, there exists a broad range of events that could result in us being unable to utilize our assets, and Delek or its assignee or a third party, as the case may be, no longer having an obligation to meet its minimum volume commitments or pay the amounts otherwise owing under the applicable agreement.  Furthermore, a single event relating to one of Delek's refineries could have such an impact on multiple of our commercial agreements with Delek or its assignee.  Any reduction, suspension or termination of any of our commercial agreements could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to unitholders.. If Delek satisfies only its minimum obligations under, or if we are unable to renew or extend, the various commercial agreements we have with Delek, our ability to make distributions to our unitholders may be impaired.. Delek is not obligated to use, or to pay us with respect to our services, for volumes of crude oil or refined products in excess of the minimum volume commitments under the various commercial agreements with us.  During refinery turnarounds, which typically last 30 to 60 days and are performed every three to five years, and during other planned or unplanned maintenance periods, Delek may only satisfy its minimum volume commitments during such periods with respect to our assets that serve the refinery.  In addition, the initial terms of Delek's obligations under those agreements range from five to ten years, unless earlier terminated as described above, with Delek having the option to renew.  If Delek fails to use our services for volumes of crude oil or refined products in excess of the minimum volume commitments or fails to use our facilities and services after expiration of those agreements, or if Delek terminates those agreements prior to their expiration, and we are unable to generate additional revenues from third parties, our ability to make cash distributions to unitholders may be impaired.. A material decrease in the refining margins at the Tyler Refinery or the El Dorado Refinery could materially reduce the volumes of crude oil or refined products that we handle, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to unitholders.. The volumes of crude oil and refined products that we transport and refined products that we market depend substantially on Delek's refining margins.  Refining margins are dependent mostly upon the price of crude oil or other refinery feedstocks and the price of refined products. These prices are affected by numerous factors beyond our or Delek's control, including the dynamics of global supply and demand for crude oil, gasoline and other refined products.  The impact of low refined product demand may be further compounded by excess global refining capacity and high inventory levels.. If the demand for refined products, particularly in Delek's primary market areas, decreases significantly, or if there were a material increase in the price of crude oil supplied to the Tyler Refinery or the El Dorado Refinery without an increase in the value of the refined products produced by those refineries, either temporary or permanent, which caused Delek to reduce production of refined products at its refineries, there would likely be a reduction in the volumes of crude oil and refined products we handle for Delek.  Any such reduction could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to our unitholders.. A material decrease in the supply of attractively priced crude oil could materially reduce the volumes of crude oil and refined products that we transport and store, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to our unitholders.. The volumes of crude oil and refined products that we may transport on our pipelines will depend on the volumes of crude oil processed and refined products produced at Delek's refineries that we serve, as well as third parties' desire to transport crude on our systems, including our Paline Pipeline. The volumes of crude oil processed and refined products produced depend, in part, on the availability of attractively priced crude oil.  For example, if a shipper on one of our pipeline systems is unable to locate or purchase attractively priced crude, which could happen due to a large number of market factors, and their shipments on our system are made in large part because of the pipeline's proximity to such attractively priced crude, then our pipeline may not be utilized.  If the capacity of such pipeline is not under contract, or the pipeline is not utilized at all or to its capacity, then our results may be adversely affected.  Our Paline Pipeline is such a pipeline. If we are unable to secure capacity agreements on our Paline Pipeline, our Paline Pipeline may go unused or underused for a period of time, which could affect our operating results if third parties are no longer interested in transporting crude oil along that route for economic reasons associated with the price of crude or other reasons.. Further, in order to maintain or increase production levels at Delek's refineries, Delek must continually contract for new crude oil supplies or consider connecting to alternative sources of crude oil.  Adverse developments in major oil producing regions around the world could have a significant impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows because of our lack of industry and geographic. 25. diversity and substantial reliance on Delek as a direct or indirect customer.  Accordingly, in addition to risks related to accessing, transporting and storing crude oil and refined products, we are disproportionately exposed to risks inherent in the broader oil and gas industry, including:. • the volatility and uncertainty of regional pricing differentials for crude oil and refined products;. • the action by the members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC, individually or in the aggregate, regarding production levels and prices;. • the nature and extent of governmental regulation and taxation; and. • the anticipated future prices of crude oil and refined products in markets served by Delek's refineries.. If, as a result of any of these or other factors, the volumes of attractively priced crude oil available to Delek's refineries are materially reduced for a prolonged period of time, the volumes of crude oil and refined products that we transport and store, and the related fees for those services, could be materially reduced, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to our unitholders.. A portion of our operations are conducted through joint ventures, over which we do not have full control and which have unique risks.. A portion of our operations are conducted through joint ventures, in which we have been making investments since 2015.  We are able to appoint members to the managing boards of each of the joint ventures and maintain certain rights of approval over certain actions of our partners and/or their affiliates.  However, our partners in each of our joint ventures, or their affiliates, serve as, or are responsible for, the contractor and the operator of the joint ventures' assets, and we have limited control over the same.  In addition, we have limited control over the cash distribution policies of each of the joint ventures.. We share ownership in the joint ventures with partners that may not always share our goals and objectives.  Differences in views among the partners may result in delayed decisions or failures to agree on major matters, such as large expenditures or contractual commitments, the construction of assets or borrowing money, among others.  Delay or failure to agree may prevent action with respect to such matters, even though such action may not serve our best interest or that of the joint venture.  Accordingly, delayed decisions and disagreements could adversely affect the business and operations of the joint ventures and, in turn, our business and operations.  From time to time, our joint ventures may be involved in disputes or legal proceedings which may negatively affect our investments.  Accordingly, any such occurrences could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. Our substantial dependence on Delek's Tyler and El Dorado Refineries, as well as the lack of diversification of our assets and geographic locations, could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our common unitholders.. We believe that a substantial majority of our gross and contribution margins for the foreseeable future will be derived from the operation of our pipelines, gathering systems and terminal and storage facilities that support the Tyler and El Dorado Refineries and are primarily located in Arkansas and Texas and, to a lesser degree, Louisiana and Tennessee.  Any event that renders either Delek refinery temporarily or permanently unavailable could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to our unitholders.  Due to our lack of diversification in assets and geographic location, an adverse development in our businesses or areas of operations, including adverse developments due to catastrophic events, weather, regulatory action and decreases in demand for crude oil and refined products, could have a significantly greater impact on our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our common unitholders than if we maintained more diverse assets and locations.  Such events may constitute force majeure events under our commercial agreements, potentially resulting in the suspension, reduction or termination of multiple commercial agreements in the affected geographic area.  In addition, during planned maintenance periods or a refinery turnaround, we expect that Delek, or its assignee, may only satisfy its minimum volume commitments with respect to our assets that serve such refinery.  Please see \" - Our contract counterparties may suspend, reduce or terminate their obligations under our various commercial agreements in certain circumstances, including events of force majeure, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to unitholders\" and \" - If Delek satisfies only its minimum obligations under, or if we are unable to renew or extend, the various commercial agreements we have with Delek, our ability to make distributions to our unitholders may be impaired.\". We are exposed to direct commodity price risk and interest rate risk, both of which may increase in the future.  We may incur losses as a result of our forward contract activities and derivative transactions.. We typically own and hold a certain amount of inventory of light products in our business with respect to our wholesale marketing business in west Texas.  Depending on our ability to sell such inventory, and the timing in which we do so, we could be exposed to risks related to the volatility of commodity prices in west Texas.  Such volatility depends on many factors, including general market conditions and prices, demand for refined products in the west Texas market, the timing of refined product deliveries and downtime at refineries in the surrounding area.  In addition, our actual product acquisitions from suppliers versus the amount we nominated to acquire may result in us being effectively long or short with respect to a given product and thus subject to further commodity price risk.  This exposure to the volatility. 26. of commodity prices could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders.. To partially mitigate the risk of various financial exposures inherent in our business, including commodity price risk and interest rate risk, we selectively use derivative financial instruments, such as fuel-related derivative transactions, and may use interest rate swaps and interest rate cap agreements.  In connection with such derivative transactions, we may be required to make payments to maintain margin accounts and to settle the contracts at their value in accordance with their terms and upon termination.  The maintenance of required margin accounts, and the settlement of derivative contracts, could cause us to suffer losses or limit gains.  In particular, derivative transactions could expose us to the risk of financial loss upon unexpected or unusual variations in the sales prices of wholesale gasoline and diesel relative to the derivative instrument.  We cannot assure you that the strategies underlying these transactions will be successful.  If any of the instruments we utilize to manage our exposure to various types of risk is not effective, we may incur losses.. Our ability to expand may be limited if Delek's business does not grow as expected.. Part of our growth strategy depends on the growth of Delek's business.  For example, in our terminals and storage business, we believe our growth will be driven in part by identifying and executing organic expansion or new construction projects that will result in increased or new throughput volumes from Delek, its assignees and third parties.  Our organic growth opportunities will be limited if Delek is unable to acquire new assets for which our execution of organic projects is needed.  Additionally, if Delek focuses on other growth areas that our business does not serve, or does not make capital expenditures to fund the organic growth of its operations, we may not be able to fully execute our growth strategy.. We may not be able to significantly increase or retain our third-party revenue due to competition and other factors, which could limit our ability to grow and may increase our dependence on Delek.. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to retain or attract third-party revenues, which could limit our ability to grow and increase our dependence on Delek.  Our ability to increase our third-party revenue is subject to numerous factors beyond our control, including competition from third parties and the extent to which we have available capacity when third-party shippers require it.  Further, under certain of our commercial agreements with Delek, we may not provide service to third parties with respect to certain assets without Delek's consent, subject to limited exceptions.  Furthermore, to the extent that we have capacity at our refined products terminals available for third-party volumes, competition from other existing or future refined products terminals owned by our competitors may limit our ability to utilize this available capacity.. The costs, scope, timelines and benefits of any construction projects we undertake may deviate significantly from our original plans and estimates.. One of our business strategies is to evaluate and make capital investments to expand our existing asset base through the development and construction of new or expanded logistics assets.  At the same time, we also will need to devote significant resources to maintaining our asset base.  However, in developing or maintaining such assets, we may experience unanticipated increases in the cost, scope and completion time for our construction or maintenance and repair projects.  Equipment that we require to complete these projects may be unavailable to us at expected costs or within expected time periods.  Additionally, labor expense may exceed our expectations.  Due to these or other factors beyond our control, we may be unable to complete these projects within anticipated cost parameters and timelines.  In addition, the benefits we realize from completed projects may take longer to realize and/or be less than we anticipated.  Our inability to complete and/or realize the benefits of construction and/or maintenance projects in a cost-efficient and timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to make distributions.. If we are unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms to fund expansions of our asset base, our ability to make quarterly cash distributions may be diminished or our financial leverage could increase.. In order to expand our asset base, we will need to make expansion capital expenditures.  If we do not make sufficient or effective expansion capital expenditures, we will be unable to expand our business operations and may be unable to maintain or raise the level of our quarterly cash distributions.  We will be required to use cash from our operations or incur borrowings or sell additional limited partner units or interests in order to fund our expansion capital expenditures.  Using cash from operations will reduce cash available for distribution to our common unitholders.  Our ability to obtain financing or to access the capital markets for future equity or debt offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing or offering, as well as the covenants in our debt agreements, general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control.  Even if we are successful in obtaining funds for expansion capital expenditures through equity or debt financings, the terms thereof could limit our ability to pay distributions to our common unitholders.  Moreover, incurring additional debt may significantly increase our interest expense and financial leverage, and issuing additional limited partner interests may result in significant common unitholder dilution and increase the aggregate amount of cash required to maintain the then-current distribution rate, which could materially decrease our ability to pay distributions at the then-current distribution rate.. 27. If third-party pipelines, terminals or other facilities interconnected to our pipeline systems or terminals become partially or fully unavailable, or if we are unable to fulfill our contractual obligations, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to our unitholders could be adversely affected.. Our pipelines and terminals connect to other pipelines, terminals and facilities owned and operated by unaffiliated third parties. Our shippers often need to use such pipelines, terminals and facilities; however, the continuing operation of such third-party pipelines, terminals and other facilities is not within our control.. These pipelines, terminals and other facilities may become unavailable because of testing, turnarounds, line repair, reduced operating pressure, lack of operating capacity, regulatory requirements, curtailments of receipt or deliveries due to insufficient capacity, corporate business decisions or because of damage from hurricanes or other operational hazards.  In addition, we do not have interconnect agreements with all of these pipelines, terminals and other facilities, and the interconnect agreements we do have may be terminated in certain circumstances, including circumstances beyond our control, and on short notice.  If any of these pipelines, terminals or other facilities becomes unable to receive or transport crude oil or refined products, we may be unable to perform our obligations under our commercial agreements with Delek and third parties, and our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to our unitholders could be adversely affected.. Similarly, if additional shippers begin transporting volumes of refined products or crude oil over interconnecting pipelines, the allocations to us and other existing shippers on these interconnecting pipelines could be reduced, which could also reduce volumes distributed through our terminals or transported through our crude oil pipelines.  Allocation reductions of this nature are not infrequent and are beyond our control.  Any significant reduction in volumes could adversely affect our revenues and cash flow and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders.. An interruption or reduction of supply and delivery of refined products to our wholesale marketing business could result in a decline in our sales and profitability.. In our west Texas wholesale marketing business, we sell refined products that we purchase from Delek and unaffiliated third parties.    The contract under which we purchased the majority of the products we sold in west Texas expired in December 2017.  We are now purchasing the majority of product we sell in west Texas from Delek.  The remainder of the barrels we sell in west Texas are spot purchased from various suppliers or refiners.  We could experience an interruption or reduction in the supply or delivery of refined products if our suppliers, the refineries who supply us or our suppliers, or the pipelines that deliver that product partially or completely ceased operations, temporarily or permanently, or ceased to supply us with refined products for any reason.  The ability of these refineries and our suppliers to supply refined products to us could be disrupted by anticipated events, such as scheduled upgrades or maintenance, as well as events beyond their control, such as unscheduled maintenance, fires, floods, storms, explosions, power outages, accidents, acts of terrorism or other catastrophic events, labor difficulties and work stoppages, governmental or private party litigation, or legislation or regulation that adversely impacts refinery operations.  An interruption or reduction in the volume of refined products supplied to our wholesale business could adversely affect our sales and profitability.. We are exposed to the credit risks and certain other risks of our key customers and other contractual counterparties, including Delek and its assignees, and any material nonpayment or nonperformance by our key customers or other counterparties could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders.. We are subject to risks of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers and other contractual counterparties.  Any material nonpayment or nonperformance or default by our key customers or other contractual counterparties, including Delek or its assignees, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Furthermore, some of our customers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks.  Any loss of our key customers, including Delek, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders.. 28. Restrictions in our revolving credit facility and in the indenture governing the 2025 Notes could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders.. Our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing the 2025 Notes contain, and any future financing agreements may contain, operating and financial restrictions and covenants that could limit our ability to finance future operations or capital needs, or to expand or pursue our business activities, which may, in turn, limit our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. For example, our revolving credit facility limits our ability to, among other things:. • incur or guarantee additional debt;. • incur certain liens on assets;. • dispose of assets;. • make certain cash distributions or redeem or repurchase units;. • change the nature of our business;. • engage in certain mergers or acquisitions or make certain investments (including joint ventures); and. • enter into certain transactions with affiliates.. Our revolving credit facility contains covenants requiring us to maintain certain financial ratios.  Our ability to meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will meet those ratios.  In addition, our revolving credit facility contains events of default customary for agreements of this nature, including the occurrence of a change of control (which will occur if, among other things, (i) Delek ceases to own and control legally and beneficially at least 51% of the equity interests of our general partner, (ii) Delek Logistics GP, LLC ceases to be our sole general partner, or (iii) we fail to own and control legally and beneficially 100% of the equity interests of any other borrower under our revolving credit facility, unless otherwise permitted thereunder).. Similarly, the indenture governing the 2025 Notes contains covenants that, among other things, limit our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to (i) incur, assume or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue certain convertible or redeemable equity securities; (ii) create liens to secure indebtedness; (iii) pay distributions on equity interests, repurchase equity securities or redeem subordinated securities; (iv) make investments; (v) restrict distributions, loans or other asset transfers from our restricted subsidiaries; (vi) consolidate with or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of our properties to, another person; (vii) sell or otherwise dispose or assets, including equity interests in subsidiaries; and (viii) enter into transactions with affiliates.. The provisions of our revolving credit facility and of the indenture governing the 2025 Notes may affect our ability to obtain future financing and pursue attractive business opportunities and our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in business conditions.  In addition, a failure to comply with the provisions of our revolving credit facility or the 2025 Notes could result in a default or an event of default that could enable our lenders to declare the outstanding principal of that debt, together with accrued and unpaid interest and certain other indebtedness and other outstanding amounts, to be immediately due and payable.  Such event of default would also permit our lenders to foreclose on our assets serving as collateral for our obligations under the revolving credit facility.  If the payment of our debt is accelerated, our assets may be insufficient to repay such debt in full, and our unitholders could experience a partial or total loss of their investment.  The revolving credit facility and the indenture governing the 2025 Notes also have cross-default provisions that will apply to certain other indebtedness we may have.. Our debt levels may limit our flexibility to obtain financing and to pursue other business opportunities.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $422.6 million in debt outstanding.  We have the ability to incur additional debt; however, such ability is subject to limitations under our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing the 2025 Notes.  Our level of debt could have important consequences to us, including the following:. • our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired, or such financing may not be available on favorable terms;. • our funds available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to unitholders will be reduced by that portion of our cash flows required to make payments on our debt and any interest thereon;. • we may be more vulnerable to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and. • our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions may be limited.. Our ability to service our debt will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control.  If our operating results are not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, which is within our control, or such as reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets or seeking additional equity capital, which actions we may not be able to effect on satisfactory terms or at all.. 29. Transportation on certain of our pipelines is subject to federal or state rate and service regulation, and the imposition and/or cost of compliance with such regulation could adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distribution to our unitholders.  In addition, certain of our other contracts are eligible for fee increases tied to other inflationary indexes, which could adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distribution to our unitholders.. Certain of our pipelines provide services that may be subject to regulation by the FERC, under the ICA, the Energy Policy Act of 1992 and/or state regulators. The FERC uses prescribed rate methodologies for developing regulated tariff rates for interstate oil and product pipelines.  The FERC's primary rate-making authority is currently price-indexing; if the methodology changes, the new methodology may result in tariffs that generate lower revenues and cash flows.  The indexing method allows a pipeline to increase its rates based on a percentage change in the producer price index for finished goods and is not based on pipeline-specific costs.  If the index falls, we will be required to reduce our rates that are based on the FERC's price indexing methodology if they exceed the new maximum available rate.  In addition, changes in the index might not be large enough to fully reflect actual increases in our costs.  The FERC's rate-making methodologies may limit our ability to set rates based on our true costs or may delay the use of rates that reflect increased costs.  Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our revenues and cash flows.  We note that the FERC index has been set at a level for the period from 2016-2021 that is lower than that which was in effect from 2010-2015; this is likely to result in lower annual rate increases for the coming 2018-2021 period for our transportation and other rates that are subject to the FERC index for annual adjustments, compared to the previous five-year period, and indeed the index level for the 2016 index rate adjustment required a decrease in certain of our interstate transportation rates to comply with the reduced ceiling level.  Furthermore, on October 20, 2016, the FERC issued an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking regarding Revisions to Indexing Policies and Page 700 of FERC Form No. 6, (the \"ANOPR\").  If final rules are implemented as proposed in that ANOPR, our reporting burdens for providing to FERC annual throughput, revenue and cost of service information would likely increase.   In addition, if implemented as proposed, FERC regulations based on the ANOPR would create new tests for whether our pipelines providing service subject to FERC tariffs could increase rates in accordance with the FERC index in a given year and could restrict our ability to increase our rates as a result.. Shippers may protest, and the FERC may investigate, the lawfulness of new or changed tariff rates. The FERC can suspend those tariff rates for up to seven months. It can also require refunds of amounts collected, based on rates that are ultimately found to be unlawful, and prescribe new rates prospectively. The FERC and interested parties can also challenge tariff rates that have become final and effective.. The FERC can order new rates to take effect prospectively and order reparations for past rates that exceed the just and reasonable level for time periods up to two years prior to the date of a complaint. Due to the complexity of rate making, the lawfulness of any rate is never assured. A successful challenge of our rates could adversely affect our revenues.  In addition, on December 15, 2016, the FERC issued a Notice of Inquiry Regarding the Commission's Policy for Recovery of Income Tax Costs, (the \"NOI\").  The NOI sought comments on how FERC should address any double recovery for partnership-owned pipelines resulting from FERC's current income tax allowance and rate of return policies.  If the NOI results in final regulations or policy changes that alter the FERC's current approach to liquids pipeline ratemaking and the relevant components of our interstate pipeline transportation rates, those changes could require us to change our rate design and potentially lower our rates if they are challenged on a cost of service basis.  The FERC also regulates the terms and conditions of service, including access rights, for interstate transportation on common carrier pipelines subject to its jurisdiction.. While the FERC regulates rates and terms and conditions of service for transportation of crude oil or refined products in interstate commerce by pipeline, state agencies may regulate rates and terms and conditions of service for petroleum pipeline transportation in intrastate commerce.  Whether a pipeline provides service in interstate commerce or intrastate commerce is highly fact-dependent and determined on a case-by-case basis.  We cannot provide assurance that the FERC will not, at some point, assert that some or all of the transportation service we provide is within its jurisdiction.  If the FERC were successful with any such assertion, we may be required to pay refunds to customers and the FERC's rate-making methodologies may limit our ability to set rates based on our actual costs, delay the use of rates that reflect increased costs and subject us to potentially burdensome and expensive operational, reporting and other requirements.  Service on the East Texas Crude Logistics System is currently subject to a temporary waiver issued by the FERC.  If the conditions to the continued effectiveness of that East Texas Waiver Order are no longer true at any point, service on that system would become fully subject to FERC tariff filing requirements and other regulatory requirements for the provision of transportation service.  If we file tariffs, we may be required to provide a cost justification for the transportation charge. We would also be required to provide service to all prospective shippers making reasonable requests for service without undue discrimination and to operate in a manner that does not provide any undue preference to shippers. The rates under such tariffs may be insufficient to allow us to recover fully our cost of providing service on the affected pipelines, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, regulation by the FERC may subject us to potentially burdensome and expensive operational, reporting and other requirements.  We own pipeline assets in Texas, Arkansas and Louisiana.  In Texas, a pipeline, with some exceptions, is required to operate as a common carrier and provide transportation without discrimination.  Arkansas provides that all intrastate oil pipelines are common carriers, but it exercises light-handed regulation over petroleum pipelines.  In Louisiana, all pipelines conveying petroleum from a point of origin within the state to a destination within the state are declared common carriers.  The Louisiana Public Service Commission is empowered with the authority to establish reasonable rates and regulations for the transport of petroleum by a common carrier, mandating public tariffs and providing of transportation without discrimination.  State. 30. commissions have generally not been aggressive in regulating common carrier pipelines, have generally not investigated the rates or practices of petroleum pipelines in the absence of shipper complaints and generally resolve complaints informally.  If the regulatory commissions in the states in which we operate change their policies and aggressively regulate the rates or terms of service of pipelines operating in those states, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Federal Trade Commission, the FERC and the CFTC hold statutory authority to monitor certain segments of the physical and futures energy commodities markets. These agencies have imposed broad regulations prohibiting fraud and manipulation of such markets. With regard to our physical sales of oil or other energy commodities, and any related hedging activities that we undertake, we are required to observe the market-related regulations enforced by these agencies, which hold substantial enforcement authority.  Failure to comply with such regulations, as interpreted and enforced, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. In addition, the fees we charge on certain of our other contracts not involving regulated or other pipelines are also subject to change based on inflation based indices, such as certain sub-indices of the producer price index or the consumer price index.  If the index rises, we will be able to increase our rates.  However, if the index falls, we will be required to reduce our rates.. Delek's level of indebtedness, the terms of its borrowings and any future credit ratings could adversely affect our ability to grow our business, our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders and our credit profile.  Our current and future credit ratings may also be affected by Delek's level of indebtedness and creditworthiness.. Delek must devote a substantial portion of its cash flows from operations to service its debt and lease obligations, thereby reducing the availability of its cash flows to fund its growth strategy, including capital expenditures, acquisitions and other business opportunities that would expand its needs for logistics operations.  Furthermore, a higher level of indebtedness at Delek increases the risk that it may default on its obligations, including commercial agreements with us.  The covenants contained in the agreements governing Delek's outstanding and future indebtedness may limit its ability to borrow additional funds for development and make certain investments and may directly or indirectly impact our operations in a similar manner.  For example, Delek's indebtedness requires that any transactions it enters into with us must be on terms no less favorable to Delek than those that could have been obtained with an unrelated person.  There is also the risk that if Delek were to default under certain of its debt obligations, Delek's creditors would attempt to assert claims against our assets during the litigation of their claims against Delek.  The defense of any such claims could be costly and could materially impact our financial condition, even absent any adverse determination.  In the event these claims were successful, our ability to meet our obligations to our creditors, make distributions and finance our operations could be materially and adversely affected.. Although we are not contractually bound by and are not liable for Delek's debt under its credit arrangements, we may be indirectly affected by certain prohibitions and limitations contained therein.  Due to its ownership and control of our general partner, Delek has the ability to prevent us from taking actions that would cause Delek to violate any covenants in its credit arrangements, or otherwise to be in default under any of its credit arrangements.  In deciding whether to prevent us from taking any such action, Delek will have no fiduciary duty to us or our unitholders.  Delek's compliance with the covenants in its credit arrangements may restrict our ability to undertake certain actions that might otherwise be considered beneficial, including borrowing under our revolving credit facility.. Any debt instruments that Delek or any of its affiliates enter into in the future, including any amendments to existing credit facilities, may include additional or more restrictive limitations on Delek that may impact our ability to conduct our business.  These additional restrictions could adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or engage in, expand or pursue our business activities.. Our current and future credit ratings may be adversely affected by the leverage or any future credit rating of Delek, as credit rating agencies may consider the leverage and credit profile of Delek and its affiliates, because of their ownership interest in and control of us and because Delek accounts for a substantial majority of our contribution margin.  Any adverse effect on our current and future credit ratings could increase our cost of borrowing or hinder our ability to raise financing in the capital markets, which could impair our ability to grow our business and make cash distributions to our unitholders.. Increases in interest rates could adversely impact the price of our common units, our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes and our ability to make cash distributions at our intended levels.. Floating interest rates on our revolving credit facility, to the extent not hedged, and interest rates on future credit facilities and debt offerings, could be higher than current levels, causing our financing costs to increase accordingly.  As with other yield-oriented securities, our unit price is impacted by the level of our cash distributions and implied distribution yield.  The distribution yield is often used by investors to compare and rank yield-oriented securities for investment decision-making purposes.  Therefore, changes in interest rates, either positive or negative, may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our common units, and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact on the price of our common units, our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes and our ability to make cash distributions at our intended levels.. 31. Fixed rate debt, such as the 2025 Notes, exposes us to changes in the fair value of our debt due to changes in market interest rates.  Fixed rate debt also exposes us to the risk that we may need to refinance maturing debt with new debt at higher rates, or that we may be obligated to rates higher than the current market.. Our right of first offer to acquire certain of Delek's existing logistics assets and certain assets that it may acquire or construct in the future is subject to risks and uncertainty, and ultimately we may not acquire any of those assets.. The Omnibus Agreement provides us with a right of first offer on certain of Delek's existing logistics assets and certain assets that it may acquire or construct in the future, subject to certain exceptions and time limitations. The consummation and timing of any future acquisitions pursuant to this right will depend on, among other things, Delek's willingness to offer such assets for sale and obtain any necessary consents, our ability to negotiate acceptable purchase agreements and commercial agreements with respect to such assets and our ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms.  We can offer no assurance that we will be able to successfully consummate any future acquisitions pursuant to our right of first offer, and Delek is under no obligation to accept any offer that we may choose to make.  In addition, we may decide not to exercise our right of first offer, if and when any assets are offered for sale, and our decision will not be subject to unitholder approval.  In addition, our right of first offer may be terminated by Delek at any time in the event that it no longer controls our general partner.. If we are unable to make investments in joint ventures or acquisitions on economically acceptable terms from Delek or third parties, our future growth could be limited, and any investments or acquisitions we may make may reduce, rather than increase, our cash flows and ability to make distributions to unitholders.. A portion of our strategy to grow our business and increase distributions to unitholders is dependent on our ability to make acquisitions or invest in joint ventures that result in an increase in cash flow.  If we are unable to make acquisitions from Delek or third parties or invest in joint ventures, because we are unable to identify attractive acquisition or project candidates or negotiate acceptable purchase contracts, we are unable to obtain financing for these acquisitions or investments on economically acceptable terms, we are outbid by competitors or we or the seller are unable to obtain any necessary consents, our future growth and ability to increase distributions to unitholders may be limited.  Furthermore, even if we do consummate acquisitions or investments in joint ventures that we believe will be accretive, they may in fact result in a decrease in cash flow.  Any acquisition or investment involves potential risks, including, among other things:. • mistaken assumptions about revenues and costs, including synergies;. • the assumption of known or unknown liabilities;. • limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller;. • mistaken assumptions about the overall costs of equity or debt;. • the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns;. • ineffective or poor integration of such acquisitions;. • unforeseen difficulties operating multi-customer and product assets in new product areas or new markets; and. • customer or key employee losses at the acquired businesses.. If we consummate any future acquisitions or investments in joint ventures, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly, and unitholders will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in determining the application of these funds and other resources.. We may be unsuccessful in integrating the operations of the assets we have acquired or of any future acquisitions with our existing operations and in realizing all or any part of the anticipated benefits of any such acquisitions.. From time to time, we evaluate and acquire assets and businesses that we believe complement our existing assets and businesses.  Acquisitions may require substantial capital or the incurrence of substantial indebtedness.  Our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly as a result of future acquisitions.  Acquisitions and business expansions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the assets and operations of the acquired businesses, inefficiencies and difficulties that arise because of improper assumptions regarding the new assets, unfamiliarity with new assets and the businesses associated with them and new geographic areas and the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns.  Further, unexpected costs and challenges may arise whenever businesses with different operations or management are combined, and we may experience unanticipated delays in realizing the benefits of an acquisition, if at all.  Also, following an acquisition, we may discover previously unknown liabilities associated with the acquired business or assets for which we have no recourse under applicable indemnification provisions.. 32. The expansion of existing assets and construction of new assets, including through joint venture investments, may not result in revenue increases and will be subject to regulatory, environmental, political, legal, economic and other risks, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. A portion of our strategy to grow and increase distributions to unitholders is dependent on our ability to expand existing assets and to construct additional assets, including through investments in joint ventures.  The construction of a new pipeline or terminal, or the expansion of an existing pipeline or terminal, involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties, most of which are beyond our control.  If we, or joint ventures we invest in, undertake these types of projects, they may not be completed on schedule, or at all, or at the budgeted cost.  Moreover, we, or the joint ventures we invest in, may not receive sufficient long-term contractual commitments from customers to provide the revenue needed to support such projects.  Even if such commitments are received, an increase in revenue may not be realized for an extended period of time.  For instance, if we build, or invest in a joint venture that builds, a new pipeline, the construction will occur over an extended period of time, and we will not receive any material increases in revenues until after completion of the project, if at all.  In addition, we, or the joint ventures we invest in, may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production in a region or gain access to crude supplies at lower costs, and such growth or access may not materialize.  As a result, new facilities may not be able to attract enough throughput to achieve the expected return on investment, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders.. We do not own all of the land on which most of our pipelines and several of our facilities are located, which could result in disruptions to our operations.. We do not own all of the land on which most of our pipelines, tank farms and terminal facilities are located, and we are therefore subject to the possibility of more onerous terms and/or increased costs to retain necessary land use if we do not have valid rights-of-way or leases, if such rights-of-way or leases lapse or terminate or if our facilities are not properly located within the boundaries of such leases or rights-of-way.  We obtain the rights to construct and operate our pipelines on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies, and some of those agreements may grant us those rights for only a specific period of time.  Our loss of such rights, through our inability to renew any rights-of-way contracts, or a significant increase in the costs of these rights, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders.. We could incur substantial costs or disruptions in our business if we cannot obtain or maintain necessary permits and authorizations or otherwise comply with health, safety, environmental and other laws and regulations.. Our operations require numerous permits and authorizations under various laws and regulations.  These authorizations and permits are subject to revocation, renewal or modification and can require operational changes to limit impacts or potential impacts on the environment and/or health and safety.  A violation of authorization or permit conditions or other legal or regulatory requirements could result in substantial fines, criminal sanctions, permit revocations, injunctions and/or facility shutdowns.  In addition, material modifications of our operations could require modifications to our existing permits or upgrades to our existing pollution control equipment.  Any or all of these matters could have a negative effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows.. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could result in increased operating and capital costs and reduced demand for our products and services.. In December 2009, the EPA published its findings that emissions of greenhouse gases, or GHGs, present a danger to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to the warming of the Earth's atmosphere and other climatic conditions.  Based on these findings, the EPA adopted two sets of regulations that restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act, including one that requires a reduction in emissions of GHGs from motor vehicles and another that regulates GHG emissions from certain large stationary sources under the Clean Air Act Prevention of Significant Deterioration (\"PSD\") and Title V permitting programs.  In addition, the EPA expanded its existing GHG emissions reporting rule to include onshore oil and natural gas processing, transmission, storage, and distribution activities, beginning in 2012 for emissions occurring in 2011. Congress has also from time to time considered legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs.  Efforts have been made, and continue to be made, in the international community toward the adoption of international treaties or protocols that would address global climate change issues.  In April 2016, the United States became a signatory to the 2015 United Nations Conference on Climate Change, which led to the creation of the Paris Agreement.  The Paris Agreement, which became effective by its terms on November 4, 2016, will require countries to review and \"represent a progression\" in their intended nationally determined contributions, which set GHG emission reduction goals, every five years, beginning in 2020.  On August 4, 2017, the United States formally communicated to the United Nations its intent to withdraw from participating in the Paris Agreement, which entails a four year process. In response to the announced withdrawal plan, a number of state and local governments in the United States have expressed intentions to take GHG-related actions.  Although it is not possible to predict the requirements of any GHG legislation or regulations that may be enacted or promulgated, any laws or regulations that may be adopted to restrict or reduce GHG emissions may require us to incur increased operating costs.  If we are unable to maintain sales of our refined products at a price that reflects such increased costs, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Further,. 33. any increase in the prices of refined products resulting from such increased costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  Moreover, GHG regulation could also impact the consumption of refined products, thereby affecting the demand for our services.  Finally, some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHG in the atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, and floods and other climate events that could have an adverse effect on our assets.. In 2010, the EPA and the National Highway Transportation Safety Administration (\"NHTSA\") finalized new standards, raising the required Corporate Average Fuel Economy, or CAFE, standard of the nation's passenger fleet by 40% to approximately 35 miles per gallon by 2016 and imposing the first ever federal GHG emissions standards on cars and light trucks.  In September 2011, the EPA and the DOT finalized first-time standards for fuel economy of medium and heavy duty trucks.  On August 28, 2012, the EPA and NHTSA announced final regulations that mandated further decreases in passenger vehicle GHG emissions and increases in fuel economy beginning with 2017 model year vehicles and increasing to the equivalent of 54.5 miles per gallon by 2025.  During 2016, the EPA conducted a mid-term evaluation of progress in meeting vehicle GHG standards and in January 2017 the EPA issued a determination to maintain the current GHG emissions standards for model year (MY) 2022-2025 vehicles.  In March 2017, EPA announced its decision to reopen the mid-term evaluation process and reconsider the January 2017 determination. As a result, GHG emissions standards for MY 2022-2025 vehicles remain uncertain.  In August 2016, the EPA and the NHTSA jointly finalized standards for medium- and heavy-duty vehicles regulating fuel efficiency and carbon pollution.  Such increases in fuel economy standards and potential electrification of the vehicle fleet, along with mandated increases in use of renewable fuels discussed above, could result in decreasing demand for petroleum fuels.  Decreasing demand for petroleum fuels could materially affect profitability at Delek's refineries, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations and cash flows.. Our operations are subject to federal and state laws and regulations relating to product quality specifications, and we could be subject to damages based on claims brought against us by our customers or lose customers as a result of the failure of products we distribute to meet certain quality specifications.. Various federal and state agencies prescribe specific product quality specifications for refined products, including vapor pressure, sulfur content, benzene content, ethanol content and biodiesel content.  Changes in product quality specifications or blending requirements could reduce our throughput volume, require us to incur additional handling costs or require capital expenditures.  For example, mandated increases in use of renewable fuels could require the construction of additional storage and blending equipment.  If we are unable to recover these costs through increased revenues, our cash flows and ability to pay cash distributions to our unitholders could be adversely affected.  Violations of product quality laws attributable to our operations could subject us to significant fines and penalties as well as negative publicity.  In addition, changes in the product quality of the products we receive on our pipeline system could reduce or eliminate our ability to blend products.. A terrorist attack on our assets, or threats of war or actual war, may hinder or prevent us from conducting our business.. Terrorist attacks in the United States, as well as events occurring in response or similar to or in connection with such attacks, including political instability in various Middle Eastern countries, may harm our business.  Energy-related assets (which could include pipelines and terminals such as ours) may be at greater risk of future terrorist attacks than other possible targets in the United States.  In addition, the State of Israel, where Delek Group, the former parent company of Delek, is based, has suffered armed conflicts and political instability in recent years.  We may be more susceptible to terrorist attack as a result of our connection to Israel.  In the future, certain of the directors of our general partner may reside in Israel.. A direct attack on our assets (including cyber attacks), Delek's assets or the assets of others used by us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  In addition, any terrorist attack or continued political instability in the Middle East could have an adverse impact on energy prices, including prices for the crude oil and other feedstocks we transport and refined petroleum products, and an adverse impact on the margins from our operations.  Disruption or significant increases in energy prices could also result in government-imposed price controls.. Further, changes in the insurance markets attributable to terrorist attacks could make certain types of insurance more difficult for us to obtain.  Moreover, the insurance that may be available to us may be significantly more expensive than our existing insurance coverage.  Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war could also affect our ability to raise capital, including our ability to repay or refinance debt.. Our customers' operating results are seasonal and generally lower in the first and fourth quarters of the year.  Our customers depend on favorable weather conditions in the spring and summer months.. The volume and throughput of crude oil and refined products transported through our pipelines and sold through our terminals and to third parties is directly affected by the level of supply and demand for all of such products in the markets served directly or indirectly by our assets.  Supply and demand for such products fluctuate during the calendar year.  Demand for gasoline, for example, is generally higher. 34. during the summer months than during the winter months due to seasonal increases in motor vehicle traffic, while demand for asphalt products, which is a substantial product of Delek's El Dorado Refinery, is lower in the winter months.  In addition, our refining customers, such as Delek, occasionally slow or shut down operations to perform planned maintenance during the winter, when demand for their products is lower.  Accordingly, these factors can affect the need for crude oil or finished products by our customers, and therefore limit our volumes or throughput during these periods, and could adversely affect our customers' business, financial condition and results of operations, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Regulations adopted by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with our business.. The U.S. Congress has adopted the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the \"Dodd-Frank Act\"), which is comprehensive financial reform legislation that, among other things, establishes new federal oversight and regulation of over-the-counter derivatives and many of the entities that participate in that market.  The Dodd-Frank Act was enacted in 2010, and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (\"CFTC\"), and the SEC, along with certain other regulators, have promulgated final rules to implement many of the Dodd-Frank Act's provisions relating to over-the-counter derivatives.  Most of these rules have been finalized, while others have not; as a result, the final form and timing of the implementation of certain parts of the regulatory regime affecting commodity derivatives remains uncertain.  Among other consequences of the new regulations, entities that enter into derivatives (including futures and exchange-traded and over-the-counter swaps) are expected to be subject to aggregate position limits for certain futures, options and swaps (under regulations re-proposed in December 2016 that have not been finalized and the ultimate form, timing and implementation of which remains uncertain), and are currently subject to recordkeeping and reporting requirements.  There can be no assurance that, when fully implemented, this regulatory regime will not have a material adverse effect on our ability to hedge our exposure to commodity prices, interest rates and other risks to the extent that we use derivatives to do so.. We rely on information technology in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our business.. We are heavily dependent on technology infrastructure and rely upon certain critical information systems for the effective operation of our business. These information systems include data network and telecommunications, internet access and our websites, and various computer hardware equipment and software applications, including those that are critical to the safe operation of our pipelines and terminals. These information systems are subject to damage or interruption from a number of potential sources, including natural disasters, software viruses or other malware, power failures, cyber-attacks and other events to the extent that these information systems are under our or Delek's control. Delek has implemented measures, such as virus protection software, intrusion detection systems, advanced monitoring and emergency recovery processes to address the outlined risks. However, security measures for information systems cannot be guaranteed to be failsafe. Any compromise of our data security, or our inability to use or access these information systems at critical points in time, could unfavorably impact the timely and efficient operation of our business and subject us to additional costs and liabilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations.  Furthermore, the continuing and evolving threat of cyber-attacks has resulted in increased regulatory focus on prevention. To the extent we face increased regulatory requirements, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to meet such requirements.. Risks Relating to Our Partnership Structure. Our general partner and its affiliates, including Delek and the Individual GP Owners, have conflicts of interest with us and limited duties to us and our unitholders, and they may favor their own interests to the detriment of us and our other common unitholders.. Delek controls our general partner and appoints all of the officers and directors of our general partner.  In addition, three members of the board of directors of our general partner, all of whom also serve as executive officers of Delek, own a small percentage of our general partner (the \"Individual GP Owners\").  See Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance.  All of the officers and three of the directors of our general partner (who are also the Individual GP Owners) are also officers and/or directors of Delek.  Although our general partner has a contractual obligation to manage us in a manner that is beneficial to us and our unitholders, the directors and officers of our general partner have a fiduciary duty to manage our general partner in a manner that is beneficial to Delek.  Conflicts of interest will arise from time to time between Delek, the Individual GP Owners, and our general partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts of interest, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of Delek and the Individual GP Owners over our interests and the interests of our unitholders.  These conflicts include the following situations, among others:. • Our Partnership Agreement replaces the fiduciary duties that would otherwise be owed by our general partner with contractual standards governing its duties, limits our general partner's liabilities and restricts the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without such limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty.. 35. • Neither our Partnership Agreement nor any other agreement requires Delek to pursue a business strategy that favors us or utilizes our assets, including whether to increase or decrease refinery production, whether to shut down or reconfigure a refinery or what markets to pursue or grow.  The directors and officers of Delek have a fiduciary duty to make these decisions in the best interests of the stockholders of Delek, which may be contrary to our interests. Delek may choose to shift the focus of its investment and growth to areas not served by our assets.. • Delek, as our primary customer, has an economic incentive to cause us not to seek higher service fees, even if such higher fees could be obtained in arm's-length, third-party transactions.  Furthermore, under many of our commercial agreements with them, Delek's consent is required before we may enter into an agreement with any third party with respect to certain of our assets, including those that serve the El Dorado and Tyler Refineries, and Delek has an incentive to cause us not to pursue such third-party contracts in certain circumstances.. • Our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as Delek, in resolving conflicts of interest.. • All of the officers and three of the directors of our general partner (who are also the three Individual GP Owners) are also officers and/or directors of Delek and owe fiduciary duties to Delek.  These officers will also devote significant time to the business of Delek and will be compensated by Delek accordingly.. • Delek may be constrained by the terms of its debt instruments from taking actions, or refraining from taking actions, that may be in our best interests.. • Except in limited circumstances, our general partner has the power and authority to conduct our business without unitholder approval.. • Disputes may arise under our commercial agreements with Delek.. • Our general partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, borrowings, issuances of additional partnership units and the creation, reduction or increase of cash reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders.. • Our general partner determines the amount and timing of any capital expenditures and whether a capital expenditure is classified as a maintenance capital expenditure, which reduces operating surplus, or an expansion or investment capital expenditure, which does not reduce operating surplus.  This determination can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders.. • Our general partner determines which costs incurred by it are reimbursable by us.. • Our general partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make a distribution on their common units or to make incentive distributions.. • Our Partnership Agreement permits us to classify up to $25.0 million as operating surplus, even if it is generated from asset sales, non-working capital borrowings or other sources that would otherwise constitute capital surplus.  This cash may be used to fund distributions on our general partner units or to our general partner in respect of the incentive distribution rights.. • Our Partnership Agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf.. • Our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations.. • Our general partner may exercise its right to call and purchase all of the common units not owned by it and its affiliates if they own more than 80% of the common units.. • Our general partner controls the enforcement of the obligations that it and its affiliates owe to us, including Delek's obligations under the Omnibus Agreement and its commercial agreements with us.. • Our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or other advisers to perform services for us.. • Our general partner may transfer its incentive distribution rights without unitholder approval.. • Our general partner may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to our incentive distribution rights without the approval of the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner or our unitholders.  This election may result in lower distributions to our common unitholders in certain situations.. Our Partnership Agreement replaces the fiduciary duties that would otherwise be owed by our general partner with contractual standards governing its duties.. Our Partnership Agreement contains provisions that eliminate the fiduciary standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law and replaces those duties with several different contractual standards.  For example, our Partnership Agreement permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner, free of any duties to us and our unitholders other than the implied contractual covenant of good faith and fair dealing, which means that a court will enforce the reasonable expectations of the partners where the language in the Partnership Agreement does not provide for a clear course of action.  This provision entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires and relieves it of any duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or our limited partners.  Examples of decisions that our general partner may make in its individual capacity include:. • how to allocate corporate opportunities among us and its other affiliates;. • whether to exercise its limited call right;. 36. • whether to seek approval of the resolution of a conflict of interest by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner;. • how to exercise its voting rights with respect to the units it owns;. • whether to exercise its registration rights;. • whether to elect to reset target distribution levels;. • whether to transfer the incentive distribution rights to a third party; and. • whether or not to consent to any merger or consolidation of the Partnership or amendment to the Partnership Agreement.. Delek may compete with us.. Delek may compete with us.  Under the Omnibus Agreement, Delek and its affiliates have agreed not to engage in, whether by acquisition or otherwise, the business of owning or operating crude oil or refined products pipelines, terminals or storage facilities in the United States that are not within, directly connected to, substantially dedicated to, or otherwise an integral part of, any refinery owned, acquired or constructed by Delek.  This restriction, however, does not apply to:. • any assets that were owned by Delek upon the completion of the Offering (including replacements or expansions of those assets);. • any asset or business that Delek acquires or constructs that has a fair market value of less than $5.0 million; and. • any asset or business that Delek acquires or constructs that has a fair market value of $5.0 million or more if we have been offered the opportunity to purchase the asset or business for fair market value not later than six months after completion of such acquisition or construction, and we decline to do so.. As a result, Delek has the ability to construct assets which directly compete with our assets.  The limitations on the ability of Delek to compete with us are terminable by either party if Delek ceases to control our general partner.. Pursuant to the terms of our Partnership Agreement, the doctrine of corporate opportunity, or any analogous doctrine, does not apply to our general partner or any of its affiliates, including its executive officers and directors and Delek.  Any such person or entity that becomes aware of a potential transaction, agreement, arrangement or other matter that may be an opportunity for us will not have any duty to communicate or offer such opportunity to us.  Any such person or entity will not be liable to us or to any limited partner for breach of any fiduciary duty or other duty by reason of the fact that such person or entity pursues or acquires such opportunity for itself, directs such opportunity to another person or entity or does not communicate such opportunity or information to us.  This may create actual and potential conflicts of interest between us and affiliates of our general partner and result in less than favorable treatment of us and our common unitholders.. If unitholders are not eligible holders, their common limited partner units may be subject to redemption.. We have adopted certain requirements regarding those investors who may own our common units.  Eligible holders are limited partners whose (i) federal income tax status is not reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on the rates that can be charged by us on assets that provide services that are subject to regulation by the FERC or an analogous regulatory body and (ii) nationality, citizenship or other related status would not create a substantial risk of cancellation or forfeiture of any property in which we have an interest, in each case as determined by our general partner with the advice of counsel.  If you are not an eligible holder, in certain circumstances as set forth in our Partnership Agreement, your units may be redeemed by us at the then-current market price.  The redemption price will be paid in cash or by delivery of a promissory note, as determined by our general partner.. Our Partnership Agreement requires that we distribute all of our available cash, which could limit our ability to grow and make acquisitions.. We expect that we will distribute all of our available cash quarterly to our unitholders and, to the extent not otherwise reserved for, will rely primarily upon cash flows from operations, borrowings under the Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (as defined below) and potential future issuances of debt and equity securities, to fund our acquisitions and expansion capital expenditures.  As a result, to the extent we are unable to finance growth externally, our cash distribution policy could significantly impair our ability to grow.. In addition, because we intend to distribute all of our available cash, our growth may not be as fast as that of businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations.  To the extent we issue additional units in connection with any acquisitions or expansion capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional units may increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain or increase our per-unit distribution level.  There are no limitations in our Partnership Agreement, and we do not anticipate there being limitations in any of our credit facilities, on our ability to issue additional units, including units ranking senior to the common limited partner units.  The incurrence of additional borrowings, or other debt, to finance our growth strategy would result in increased interest expense, which in turn may impact the available cash that we have to distribute to our unitholders.. 37. Our Partnership Agreement restricts the remedies available to holders of our common limited partner units for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty.. Our Partnership Agreement contains provisions that restrict the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty under state fiduciary duty law.  For example, our Partnership Agreement provides that:. • whenever our general partner, the board of directors of our general partner or any committee thereof (including the conflicts committee) makes a determination or takes, or declines to take, any other action in their respective capacities, our general partner, the board of directors of our general partner and any committee thereof (including the conflicts committee), as applicable, is required to make such determination, or take or decline to take such other action, in good faith, meaning that it subjectively believed that the decision was in the best interests of the Partnership, and, except as specifically provided by our Partnership Agreement, will not be subject to any other or different standard imposed by our Partnership Agreement, Delaware law, or any other law, rule or regulation, or at equity;. • our general partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a general partner so long as such decisions are made in good faith;. • our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us or our limited partners resulting from any act or omission, unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our general partner or its officers and directors, as the case may be, acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was criminal; and. • our general partner will not be in breach of its obligations under the Partnership Agreement (including any duties to us or our unitholders) if a transaction with an affiliate or the resolution of a conflict of interest is:. <U+25E6> approved by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner, although our general partner is not obligated to seek such approval;. <U+25E6> approved by the vote of a majority of the outstanding common limited partner units, excluding any common units owned by our general partner and its affiliates;. <U+25E6> determined by the board of directors of our general partner to be on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties; or. <U+25E6> determined by the board of directors of our general partner to be fair and reasonable to us, taking into account the totality of the relationships among the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly favorable or advantageous to us.. In connection with a situation involving a transaction with an affiliate or a conflict of interest, any determination by our general partner or its conflicts committee must be made in good faith.  If an affiliate transaction or the resolution of a conflict of interest is not approved by our common unitholders or the conflicts committee and the board of directors of our general partner determines that the resolution or course of action taken with respect to the affiliate transaction or conflict of interest satisfies either of the standards set forth in the third and fourth sub bullets above, then it will be presumed that, in making its decision, the board of directors of our general partner acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or the Partnership challenging such determination, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption.  The general partner may still take action with respect to any affiliate transactions or the resolution of a conflict of interest without satisfying any of the sub bullets above. In such case, it is not entitled to the presumption of good faith discussed above.. The administrative services fee and reimbursements due to our general partner and its affiliates for services provided to us or on our behalf will reduce our cash available for distribution to our common unitholders. The amount and timing of such reimbursements will be determined by our general partner.. Prior to making any distribution on our common limited partner units, we will reimburse our general partner and its affiliates, including Delek, for costs and expenses they incur and payments they make on our behalf.  Under the Omnibus Agreement, we will pay Delek an annual fee and reimburse Delek and its subsidiaries for Delek's provision of various centralized corporate services.  Additionally, we will reimburse Delek for direct or allocated costs and expenses incurred on our behalf, including administrative costs, such as compensation expense for those persons who provide services necessary to run our business, and insurance expenses.  We also expect to incur incremental annual general and administrative expense as a result of being a publicly traded partnership.  Our Partnership Agreement provides that our general partner will determine in good faith the expenses that are allocable to us.  The reimbursement of expenses and payment of fees, if any, to our general partner and its affiliates will reduce the amount of available cash to pay cash distributions to our common unitholders.. 38. Holders of our common limited partner units have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our general partner or its directors.. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management's decisions regarding our business.  Unitholders will have no right on an annual or ongoing basis to elect our general partner or its board of directors.  Rather, the board of directors of our general partner will be appointed by the members of the general partner, which currently consist of Delek and Messrs. Yemin, Ginzburg and Green.  Furthermore, if the unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they will have little ability to remove our general partner.  As a result of these limitations, the price at which the common limited partner units will trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price.  Our Partnership Agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders' ability to influence the manner or direction of management.. Even if holders of our common limited partner units are dissatisfied, they cannot remove our general partner without its consent.. Unitholders are unable to remove our general partner without its consent, because our general partner and its affiliates, including Delek, own sufficient units to be able to prevent its removal.  The vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of all outstanding common limited partner units is required to remove our general partner.  As of February 26, 2018, Delek owned 62.7% of our outstanding common limited partner units.. Our Partnership Agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our common limited partner units.. Unitholders' voting rights are further restricted by a provision of our Partnership Agreement providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our general partner, cannot vote on any matter.. Our general partner's interest in us and the control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent.. Our Partnership Agreement does not restrict the ability of Delek to transfer all or a portion of its general partner interest or its ownership interest in our general partner to a third party.  Our general partner, or the new owner of our general partner, would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of our general partner with its own designees and thereby exert significant control over the decisions made by the board of directors and officers of our general partner.. The incentive distribution rights of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent.. Our general partner may transfer its incentive distribution rights to a third party at any time without the consent of our unitholders.  If our general partner transfers its incentive distribution rights to a third party but retains its general partner interest, our general partner may not have the same incentive to grow our partnership and increase quarterly distributions to unitholders over time as it would if it had retained ownership of its incentive distribution rights.  For example, a transfer of incentive distribution rights by our general partner could reduce the likelihood of Delek selling or contributing additional assets to us, as Delek would have less of an economic incentive to grow our business, which in turn would impact our ability to grow our asset base.. We may issue additional units without unitholder approval, which would dilute unitholder interests.. Our Partnership Agreement does not limit the number of additional limited partner interests, including limited partner interests that rank senior to the common limited partner units that we may issue at any time without the approval of our unitholders.  The issuance by us of additional common limited partner units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects:. • our existing unitholders' proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease;. • the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease;. • because the amount payable to holders of incentive distribution rights is based on a percentage of the total cash available for distribution, the distributions to holders of incentive distribution rights will increase even if the per-unit distribution on common limited partner units remains the same;. • the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase;. • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and. • the market price of the common limited partner units may decline.. 39. Delek may sell units in the public or private markets, and such sales could have an adverse impact on the trading price of the common units.. Delek holds 15,294,046 common limited partner units.  In addition, we have agreed to provide Delek with certain registration rights.  The sale of these units in the public or private markets could have an adverse impact on the price of the common units or on any trading market that may develop.. Our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our obligations.. Our general partner intends to limit its liability under contractual arrangements, so that the counterparties to such arrangements have recourse only against our assets and not against our general partner or its assets.  Our general partner may therefore cause us to incur indebtedness or other obligations that are nonrecourse to our general partner.  Our Partnership Agreement permits our general partner to limit its liability, even if we could have obtained more favorable terms without the limitation on liability.  In addition, we are obligated to reimburse or indemnify our general partner to the extent that it incurs obligations on our behalf.  Any such reimbursement or indemnification payments would reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution to our unitholders.. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require our unitholders to sell their units at an undesirable time or price.. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of our common units, our general partner will have the right, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, but not the obligation, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price that is not less than their then-current market price, as calculated pursuant to the terms of our Partnership Agreement.  As a result, our unitholders may be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any positive return on their investment.  Our unitholders may also incur a tax liability upon any such sale of their units to Delek.  At February 26, 2018, Delek owned 15,294,046 common limited partner units, or 62.7% of our total outstanding common limited partner units.. Our general partner, or any transferee holding a majority of the incentive distribution rights, may elect to cause us to issue common limited partner units to it in connection with a resetting of the minimum quarterly distribution and the target distribution levels related to the incentive distribution rights, without the approval of the conflicts committee of our general partner or our unitholders.  This election may result in lower distributions to our common unitholders in certain situations.. The holder or holders of a majority of the incentive distribution rights, which is currently our general partner, have the right, at any time when there are no subordinated units outstanding and such holders have received incentive distributions at the highest level to which they are entitled (48.0%) for each of the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters (and the amount of each such distribution did not exceed adjusted operating surplus for each such quarter), to reset the minimum quarterly distribution and the initial target distribution levels at higher levels based on our cash distribution at the time of the exercise of the reset election.  Following a reset election, the minimum quarterly distribution will be reset to an amount equal to the average cash distribution per unit for the two fiscal quarters immediately preceding the reset election (such amount is referred to as the \"reset minimum quarterly distribution\"), and the target distribution levels will be reset to correspondingly higher levels based on percentage increases above the reset minimum quarterly distribution.  Our general partner has the right to transfer the incentive distribution rights at any time, in whole or in part, and any transferee holding a majority of the incentive distribution rights shall have the same rights as our general partner with respect to resetting target distributions.. In the event of a reset of the minimum quarterly distribution and the target distribution levels, the holders of the incentive distribution rights will be entitled to receive, in the aggregate, the number of common limited partner units equal to that number of common limited partner units which would have entitled the holders to an average aggregate quarterly cash distribution in the prior two quarters equal to the average of the distributions on the incentive distribution rights in the prior two quarters.  Our general partner will also be issued the number of general partner units necessary to maintain its general partner interest in us that existed immediately prior to the reset election.  We anticipate that our general partner would exercise this reset right in order to facilitate acquisitions or internal growth projects that would not otherwise be sufficiently accretive to cash distributions per common unit.  It is possible, however, that our general partner or a transferee could exercise this reset election at a time when it is experiencing, or expects to experience, declines in the cash distributions it receives related to its incentive distribution rights, and may therefore desire to be issued common limited partner units rather than retain the right to receive incentive distribution payments based on target distribution levels that are less certain to be achieved in the then-current business environment.  This risk could be elevated if our incentive distribution rights have been transferred to a third party.  As a result, a reset election may cause our common unitholders to experience dilution in the amount of cash distributions that they would have otherwise received had we not issued common limited partner units to our general partner or its transferee in connection with resetting the target distribution levels.. 40. Our unitholders' liability may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business.. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner.  The Partnership is organized under Delaware law, and we conduct business in a number of other states.  The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some of the other states in which we do business.  Our unitholders could be held liable for any and all of our obligations as if they were general partners if a court or government agency were to determine that:. • we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state's partnership statute; or. • our unitholders' right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace our general partner, to approve some amendments to our Partnership Agreement or to take other actions under our Partnership Agreement constitute \"control\" of our business.. Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions that were wrongfully distributed to them.. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, we may not make a distribution to our unitholders if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets.  Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of an impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Transferees of common limited partner units are liable both for the obligations of the transferor to make contributions to the Partnership that were known to the transferee at the time of transfer and for those obligations that were unknown if the liabilities could have been determined from the Partnership Agreement.  Neither liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interest nor liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted.. The NYSE does not require a publicly traded limited partnership like us to comply with certain of its corporate governance requirements.. Our common limited partner units are listed on the New York Stock Exchange (\"NYSE\").  Because we are a publicly traded limited partnership, the NYSE does not require us to have, and we do not intend to have, a majority of independent directors on our general partner's board of directors or to establish a compensation committee or a nominating and corporate governance committee.  Accordingly, unitholders will not have the same protections afforded to certain corporations that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements.. Tax Risks to Common Unitholders. Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes.  If the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, which would subject us to entity-level taxation, then our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced.. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in the common limited partner units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes.  We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (the \"IRS\") on this or any other tax matter affecting us.. Despite the fact that we are a limited partnership under Delaware law, it is possible in certain circumstances for a partnership such as ours to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes.  A change in our business or a change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity.. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 21.0%, and would likely pay state and local income tax at varying rates.  Distributions to our unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate dividends (to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits), and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to such unitholders.  Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution would be substantially reduced.  Therefore, if we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, there would be material reductions in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common limited partner units.. Our Partnership Agreement provides that, if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us.. 41. If we were subjected to a material amount of additional entity-level taxation by individual states, it would reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders.. Changes in current state law may subject us to additional entity-level taxation by individual states.  Because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation.  Imposition of such additional tax on us by a state will reduce the cash available for distribution to our unitholders.  Our Partnership Agreement provides that, if a law is enacted or an existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to entity-level taxation, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us.. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our common limited partner units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis.. The present federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common limited partner units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial changes or differing interpretations at any time.  From time to time, members of the U.S. Congress propose and consider substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships.  If successful, such a proposal could eliminate the qualifying income exception to the treatment of all publicly traded partnerships as corporations upon which we rely for our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes.  We are unable to predict whether any changes or proposals will ultimately be enacted, but it is possible that a change in law could affect us and may, if enacted, be applied retroactively.  Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common limited partner units.. Our unitholders are required to pay income taxes on their share of our taxable income even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us.  A unitholder's share of our taxable income, and its relationship to any distributions we make, may be affected by a variety of factors, including our economic performance, transactions in which we engage or changes in law and may be substantially different from any estimate we make in connection with a unit offering.. A unitholder's allocable share of our taxable income will be taxable to it, which may require it to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes, even if it receives cash distributions from us that are less than the actual tax liability that results from that income or no cash distributions at all.. A unitholder's share of our taxable income, and its relationship to any distributions we make, may be affected by a variety of factors, including our economic performance, which may be affected by numerous business, economic, regulatory, legislative, competitive and political uncertainties beyond our control, and certain transactions in which we might engage. For example, we may engage in transactions that produce substantial taxable income allocations to some or all of our unitholders without a corresponding increase in cash distributions to our unitholders, such as a sale or exchange of assets, the proceeds of which are reinvested in our business or used to reduce our debt, or an actual or deemed satisfaction of our indebtedness for an amount less than the adjusted issue price of the debt. A unitholder's ratio of its share of taxable income to the cash received by it may also be affected by changes in law. For instance, under the recently enacted tax reform law known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, the net interest expense deductions of certain business entities, including us, are limited to 30% of such entity's \"adjusted taxable income\", which is generally taxable income with certain modifications. If the limit applies, a unitholder's taxable income allocations will be more (or its net loss allocations will be less) than would have been the case absent the limitation.. From time to time, in connection with an offering of our units, we may state an estimate of the ratio of federal taxable income to cash distributions that a purchaser of units in that offering may receive in a given period. These estimates depend in part on factors that are unique to the offering with respect to which the estimate is stated, so the expected ratio applicable to other units will be different, and in many cases less favorable, than these estimates. Moreover, even in the case of units purchased in the offering to which the estimate relates, the estimate may be incorrect, due to the uncertainties described above, challenges by the IRS to tax reporting positions which we adopt, or other factors. The actual ratio of taxable income to cash distributions could be higher or lower than expected, and any differences could be material and could materially affect the value of the common units.. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common limited partner units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS contest would likely reduce our cash available for distribution to unitholders.. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes.  The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the conclusions of our counsel or from the positions we take, and the IRS's positions may ultimately be sustained.  It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of our counsel's conclusions or the positions we take and such positions may not ultimately be sustained.  A court may not agree with some or all of our counsel's conclusions or the positions we take.  Any contest with the IRS, and the outcome of any IRS contest, may have a material adverse effect on the market. 42. for our common limited partner units and the price at which they trade.  In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS would be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner, because the costs would likely reduce our cash available for distribution.. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common limited partner units could be more or less than expected.. If any of our unitholders sells their common limited partner units, such unitholders must recognize a gain or loss for federal income tax purposes equal to the difference between the amount realized and such unitholder's tax basis in those common limited partner units.  Because distributions in excess of such unitholder's allocable share of our net taxable income decrease such unitholder's tax basis in such unitholder's common limited partner units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the common limited partner units such unitholder sells will, in effect, become taxable income to such unitholder if it sells such common limited partner units at a price greater than its tax basis in those common limited partner units, even if the price such unitholder receives is less than its original cost.  Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized on any sale or other disposition of such unitholder's common limited partner units, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture.  In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder's share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if a unitholder sells their common limited partner units, they may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash they receive from the sale.. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning our common limited partner units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them.. Investment in our common limited partner units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them.  For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income (\"UBTI\")and will be taxable to them.  Under the recently enacted tax reform act known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, an exempt organization will be required to independently compute its UBTI from each separate unrelated trade or business which may prevent an exempt organization from utilizing losses we allocate to the organization against the organization's UBTI from other sources and vice versa.  Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file U.S. federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income.  If you are a tax-exempt entity or a non-U.S. person, you should consult a tax advisor before investing in our common limited partner units.. Under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, if a unitholder sells or otherwise disposes of a common unit, the transferee is required to withhold 10.0% of the amount realized by the transferor unless the transferor certifies that it is not a foreign person, and we are required to deduct and withhold from the transferee amounts that should have been withheld by the transferee but were not withheld. However, the Department of the Treasury and the IRS have determined that this withholding requirement should not apply to any disposition of a publicly traded interests in a publicly traded partnership (such as us) until regulations or other guidance have been issued clarifying the application of this withholding requirement to dispositions of interests in publicly traded partnerships. Accordingly, while this new withholding requirement does not currently apply to interests in the Partnership, there can be no assurance that such requirement will not apply in the future.. We treat each holder of common limited partner units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common limited partner units held. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common limited partner units.. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common limited partner units, and because of other reasons, we will adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations.  A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders.  It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from a unitholder's sale of common limited partner units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common limited partner units or result in audit adjustments to such unitholder's tax returns.. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction for U.S. federal income tax purposes between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred.  The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction for U.S. federal income tax purposes between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The U.S. Department of the Treasury adopted final Treasury Regulations allowing a similar monthly simplifying convention for taxable years beginning on or after August 3, 2015. However, such final regulations do not specifically authorize the use of the proration method we have adopted. If the IRS were to challenge our proration method, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. Our counsel has not rendered an opinion with respect to whether our monthly convention for allocating taxable income and losses is permitted by existing Treasury Regulations.. 43. If the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns for tax years beginning after 2017, it (and some states) may collect any resulting taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) directly from us, in which case our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially reduced.. Pursuant to the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, if the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns for tax years beginning after 2017, it may collect any resulting taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) directly from us. We will generally have the ability to shift any such tax liability to our general partner and our unitholders in accordance with their interests in us during the year under audit, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so (and will choose to do so) under all circumstances, or that we will be able to (or choose to) effect corresponding shifts in state income or similar tax liability resulting from the IRS adjustment in states in which we do business in the year under audit or in the adjustment year. If we make payments of taxes, penalties and interest resulting from audit adjustments, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be reduced, perhaps substantially.. In the event the IRS makes an audit adjustment to our income tax returns and we do not or cannot shift the liability to our unitholders in accordance with their interests in us during the year under audit, we will generally have the ability to request that the IRS reduce the determined underpayment by reducing the suspended passive loss carryovers of our unitholders (without any compensation from us to such unitholders), to the extent such underpayment is attributable to a net decrease in passive activity losses allocable to certain partners. Such reduction, if approved by the IRS, will be binding on any affected unitholders.. A unitholder whose common limited partner units are loaned to a \"short seller\" to cover a short sale of common limited partner units may be considered as having disposed of those common limited partner units.  If so, such unitholder would no longer be treated for federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common limited partner units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition.. Because a unitholder whose common limited partner units are loaned to a \"short seller\" to cover a short sale of common limited partner units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned common limited partner units, such unitholder may no longer be treated for federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common limited partner units during the period of the loan to the short seller and may recognize gain or loss from such disposition.  Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those common limited partner units may not be reportable by the unitholder, and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those common limited partner units could be fully taxable as ordinary income.  Therefore, our unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to consult a tax advisor to discuss whether it is advisable to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from loaning their common limited partner units.. We have adopted certain valuation methodologies and monthly conventions for U.S. federal income tax purposes that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between our general partner and our unitholders.  The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common limited partner units.. When we issue additional units or engage in certain other transactions, we determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to our assets to the capital accounts of our unitholders and our general partner.  Our methodology may be viewed as understating the value of our assets.  In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and our general partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders.  Moreover, under our valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of common limited partner units may have a greater portion of their Code Section 743(b) adjustment allocated to our tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to our intangible assets. The IRS may challenge our valuation methods, or our allocation of the Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to our tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of taxable income, gain, loss and deduction between our general partner and certain of our unitholders.. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders.  It also could affect the amount of taxable gain from our unitholders' sale of common limited partner units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common limited partner units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders' tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions.. As a result of investing in our common limited partner units, our unitholders may be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in jurisdictions where we operate or own or acquire properties.. In addition to federal income taxes, our unitholders may be subject to other taxes, including state and local income, franchise, unincorporated business, estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or own property now or in the future, even if such unitholders do not live or otherwise do business in any of those jurisdictions. Our unitholders may be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, our unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We currently own property and conduct. 44. business in Arkansas, Louisiana, Oklahoma, Tennessee and Texas. Many of these states impose a personal income tax on individuals, and each state imposes an income or similar tax on corporations and certain other entities. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own property or conduct business in additional states that may impose personal income taxes or other state or local taxes on our unitholders.. Compliance with and changes in tax laws could adversely affect our performance.. We are subject to extensive tax laws and regulations, including federal, state and foreign income taxes and transactional taxes such as excise, sales/use, payroll, franchise and ad valorem taxes.  New tax laws and regulations and changes in existing tax laws and regulations are continuously being enacted that could result in increased tax expenditures in the future.  Many of these tax liabilities are subject to audits by the respective taxing authority.  These audits may result in additional taxes, as well as interest and penalties."
