[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. Oil and natural gas prices are volatile.  A sustained period of deterioration of oil prices is likely to adversely affect our future financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties.. Oil prices are the most important determinant of our operational and financial success.  Oil prices are highly impacted by worldwide oil supply, demand and prices, and have historically been subject to significant price changes over short periods of time.  While over the last few years we have been in a period of low oil prices, oil prices have recently increased, with NYMEX prices averaging $64 per barrel during the month of January 2018, roughly 15% higher than average WTI crude oil prices in the fourth quarter of 2017.  Despite this recent increase, volatility will remain, and prices could move downward or upward on a rapid or repeated basis, which can make transactions, valuations and sustained business strategies more difficult.  Our cash flow from operations is highly dependent on the prices that we receive for oil, as oil comprised approximately 97% of our 2017 production and approximately 97% of our proved reserves at December 31, 2017.  The prices for oil and natural gas are subject to a variety of factors that are beyond our control.  These factors include:. • the level of worldwide consumer demand for oil and natural gas and the domestic and foreign supply of oil and natural gas and levels of domestic oil and gas storage;. • the degree to which members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries maintain oil price and production controls;. • the degree to which domestic oil and natural gas production affects worldwide supply of crude oil or its price;. • worldwide political events, conditions and policies, including actions taken by foreign oil and natural gas producing nations; and. • worldwide economic conditions.. Negative movements in oil prices could harm us in a number of ways, including:. • lower cash flows from operations may require continued or further reduced levels of capital expenditures;. • reduced levels of capital expenditures in turn could lower our present and future production levels, and lower the quantities and value of our oil and gas reserves, which constitute our major asset;. • our lenders could reduce our borrowing base, and we may not be able to raise capital at attractive rates in the public markets;. • we could have difficulty repaying or refinancing our indebtedness;. • we could be forced to increase our level of indebtedness, issue additional equity, or sell assets;. • we could be required to impair various assets, including a further write-down of our oil and natural gas assets or the value of other tangible or intangible assets; and/or. • our potential cash flows from our commodity derivative contracts that include sold puts could be limited to the extent that oil prices are below the prices of those sold puts.. Furthermore, some or all of our tertiary projects could remain or become uneconomical.  We may also decide to suspend future expansion projects, and if prices were to drop below our operating cash break-even points for an extended period of time, we may further decide to shut-in existing production, both of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition and reduce our production.. A financial downturn in one or more of the world's major markets could negatively affect our business and financial condition.. In addition to the impact on the demand for oil, a sustained credit crisis, further drops in economic growth rates in China, regional or worldwide increases in tariffs or other trade restrictions, significant international currency fluctuations, a severe economic contraction either regionally or worldwide or turmoil in the global financial system, could materially affect our business and financial condition, or impact our ability to finance operations.  Negative credit market conditions could inhibit our lenders from funding our bank credit facility or cause them to restrict our borrowing base or make the terms of our bank credit facility more costly and more restrictive.  Negative economic conditions could also adversely affect the collectability of our trade receivables or performance by our suppliers or cause our commodity hedging arrangements to be ineffective if our counterparties are unable to perform their obligations or otherwise seek bankruptcy protection.. 24. Table of Contents. Denbury Resources Inc.. Constraints on liquidity could affect our ability to maintain or increase cash flow from operations.. In recent years, sources and levels of liquidity for the oil and gas industry have become more restrictive, in part due to the tightening of commercial lenders.  Although our liquidity has been sufficient to support our capital expenditures during 2017, future additional liquidity restrictions could negatively affect our level of capital expenditures, and thus our maintenance or growth in production and operational cash flow.  We require continued access to capital.  As a result, we may seek to access the public or private capital markets whenever conditions are favorable, even if we do not have an immediate need for additional capital at that time.. Increases in interest rates could adversely affect our business.. Our business and operating results can be harmed by increases in interest rates.  These changes could cause our cost of doing business to increase, limit our ability to pursue acquisition opportunities, reduce cash flow, affect our interest costs under our bank credit facility, or increase the cost of any new debt financings.. Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect the level of our production activities if not materially reduced.. As of December 31, 2017, our outstanding indebtedness consisted of $475.0 million principal amount outstanding under our bank credit facility, $1.1 billion aggregate principal amount of other senior indebtedness, and $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of subordinated indebtedness.  Our outstanding senior indebtedness consisted of $614.9 million principal amount of 9% Senior Secured Second Lien Notes due 2021, $381.6 million principal amount of 9¼% Senior Secured Second Lien Notes due 2022 (the \"2022 Senior Secured Notes\"), and $84.7 million principal amount of 3½% Convertible Senior Notes due 2024.  Our subordinated indebtedness consisted of $1.0 billion principal amount of subordinated notes, all of which have maturity dates between 2021 and 2023 at interest rates ranging from 4.625% to 6.375% per annum at a weighted average interest rate of 5.36% per annum.. In January 2018, we issued an additional $74.1 million principal amount of 2022 Senior Secured Notes and $59.4 million of 5% Convertible Senior Notes due 2023 in exchange for a reduction of $174.3 million in subordinated indebtedness.  As of December 31, 2017, we had a borrowing base and aggregate lender commitments of $1.05 billion under our senior secured bank credit facility and availability with respect to such commitments of $512.8 million.. The PV-10 Value of our estimated proved reserves at year-end 2017, which is based on the average first-day-of-the-month prices in 2017, was less than our outstanding indebtedness as of December 31, 2017.  Our substantial debt could have important consequences for us, including but not limited to the following:. • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including falling crude oil prices;. • impairing our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, development activities or general corporate and other purposes;. • potentially restricting us from making acquisitions or exploiting business opportunities;. • requiring dedication of a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to servicing our indebtedness (so that such cash flows would not be available for capital expenditures or other purposes);. • limiting our ability to borrow additional funds, dispose of assets and make certain investments; and/or. • placing us at a competitive disadvantage as compared to our competitors that have less debt.. Inability to meet financial performance covenants in our bank agreements may require borrowing base reductions.. Between May 2015 and May 2017, we modified certain of our financial performance covenants under our senior secured bank credit facility applicable through the remaining term of the facility to support continuing compliance with these covenants in the current oil price environment.  If oil and natural gas prices decrease for an extended period of time, these metrics could deteriorate further, potentially causing us to not be in compliance with our bank credit facility's covenants.  In the future, we may be required to seek further modifications of these covenants, or to further reduce our debt by, among other things, reducing our bank borrowing base, purchasing our subordinated debt in the open market, completing cash tenders for our debt or public or privately negotiated debt exchanges, issuing equity or completing asset sales and other cash-generating activities.  We cannot assure you, however, that we will be able to successfully modify these covenants or reduce our debt in the future.  For more information on our bank credit facility, see Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Capital Resources and Liquidity  -  Senior Secured Bank Credit Facility.. 25. Table of Contents. Denbury Resources Inc.. Our bank borrowing base is adjusted semiannually in May and November of each year, and upon requested unscheduled special redeterminations, in each case at the banks' discretion, and the amount is established and based, in part, upon certain external factors, such as commodity prices.  We do not know, nor can we control, the results of such redeterminations or the effect of then-current oil and natural gas prices on any such redetermination.  A future redetermination lowering our borrowing base could limit availability under our bank credit facility or require us to seek different forms of financing arrangements.  If the outstanding debt under our bank credit facility were to ever exceed the borrowing base, we would be required to repay the excess amount over a period not to exceed six months.. Oil and natural gas development and producing operations involve various risks.. Our operations are subject to all the risks normally incident and inherent to the operation and development of oil and natural gas properties and the drilling of oil and natural gas wells, including, without limitation, pipe failure; fires; formations with abnormal pressures; uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas, brine or well fluids; release of contaminants into the environment and other environmental hazards and risks and well blowouts, cratering or explosions.  In addition, our operations are sometimes near populated commercial or residential areas, which add additional risks.  The nature of these risks is such that some liabilities could exceed our insurance policy limits or otherwise be excluded from, or limited by, our insurance coverage, as in the case of environmental fines and penalties, for example, which are excluded from coverage as they cannot be insured.. We could incur significant costs related to these risks that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows or could have an adverse effect upon the profitability of our operations.  Additionally, a portion of our production activities involves CO2 injections into fields with wells plugged and abandoned by prior operators.  However, it is often difficult (or impracticable) to determine whether a well has been properly plugged prior to commencing injections and pressuring the oil reservoirs.  We may incur significant costs in connection with remedial plugging operations to prevent environmental contamination and to otherwise comply with federal, state and local regulations relative to the plugging and abandoning of our oil, natural gas and CO2 wells.  In addition to the increased costs, if wells have not been properly plugged, modification to those wells may delay our operations and reduce our production.. Development activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that we will not recover all or any portion of our investment in such wells.  Drilling for oil and natural gas may involve unprofitable efforts, not only from dry wells, but also from wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net reserves to return a profit after deducting drilling, operating and other costs.  The cost of drilling, completing and operating a well is often uncertain, and cost factors can adversely affect the economics of a project.  Further, our drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of numerous factors, including:. • unexpected drilling conditions;. • pressure or irregularities in formations;. • equipment failures or accidents;. • adverse weather conditions, including hurricanes and tropical storms in and around the Gulf of Mexico that can damage oil and natural gas facilities and delivery systems and disrupt operations, and winter conditions and forest fires in the Rocky Mountain region that can delay or impede operations;. • compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements;. • the cost of, or shortages or delays in the availability of, drilling rigs, equipment, pipelines and services; and. • title problems.. Estimating our reserves, production and future net cash flows is difficult to do with any certainty.. Estimating quantities of proved oil and natural gas reserves is a complex process.  It requires interpretations of available technical data and various assumptions, including assumptions relating to economic factors such as future commodity prices, production costs, severance and excise taxes, capital expenditures and workover and remedial costs, and the assumed effect of governmental rules and regulations.  There are numerous uncertainties about when a property may have proved reserves as compared to potential or probable reserves, particularly relating to our tertiary recovery operations.  Forecasting the amount of oil reserves recoverable from tertiary operations, and the production rates anticipated therefrom, requires estimates, one of the most significant being the oil recovery factor.  Actual results most likely will vary from our estimates.  Also, the use of a 10% discount factor for reporting purposes, as prescribed by the SEC, may not necessarily represent the most appropriate discount factor, given actual interest rates and risks to which our business, and the oil and natural gas industry in general, are subject.  Any significant. 26. Table of Contents. Denbury Resources Inc.. inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions, or changes of conditions, could result in a revision of the quantities and net present value of our reserves.. The reserves data included in documents incorporated by reference represent estimates only.  Quantities of proved reserves are estimated based on economic conditions, including first-day-of-the-month average oil and natural gas prices for the 12-month period preceding the date of the assessment.  The representative oil and natural gas prices used in estimating our December 31, 2017 reserves were $51.34 per Bbl for crude oil and $2.98 per MMBtu for natural gas, both of which were adjusted for market differentials by field.  Rapid crude oil price declines beginning in late 2014 have resulted in a significant decrease in our proved reserve value from 2014 levels, and to a lesser degree, a reduction in our proved reserve volumes, which has caused us to record write-downs due to the full cost ceiling test in 2015 and 2016.  As discussed in greater detail below, significant declines in oil prices could result in additional write-downs.  Our reserves and future cash flows may be subject to revisions based upon changes in economic conditions, including oil and natural gas prices, as well as due to production results, results of future development, operating and development costs, and other factors.  Downward revisions of our reserves could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results.  Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower than the prices and costs used in our estimates.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 12% of our estimated proved reserves were undeveloped.  Recovery of undeveloped reserves requires significant capital expenditures and may require successful drilling operations.  The reserves data assumes that we can and will make these expenditures and conduct these operations successfully, but these assumptions may not be accurate, and these expenditures and operations may not occur.. Our planned tertiary operations and the related construction of necessary CO2 pipelines could be delayed by difficulties in obtaining pipeline rights-of-way and/or permits, and/or by the listing of certain species as threatened or endangered.. The production of crude oil from our planned tertiary operations is dependent upon having access to pipelines to transport available CO2 to our oil fields at a cost that is economically viable.  Our current and future construction of CO2 pipelines will require us to obtain rights-of-way from private landowners, state and local governments and the federal government in certain areas.  Certain states where we operate have considered or may again consider the adoption of laws or regulations that could limit or eliminate the ability of a pipeline owner or of a state, state's legislature or its administrative agencies to exercise eminent domain over private property, in addition to possible judicially imposed constraints on, and additional requirements for, the exercise of eminent domain.  We also conduct operations on federal and other oil and natural gas leases inhabited by species that could be listed as threatened or endangered under the Endangered Species Act, which listing could lead to tighter restrictions as to federal land use and other land use where federal approvals are required.  These laws and regulations, together with any other changes in law related to the use of eminent domain or the listing of certain species as threatened or endangered, could inhibit or eliminate our ability to secure rights-of-way or otherwise access land for current or future pipeline construction projects.  As a result, obtaining rights-of-way or other means of access may require additional regulatory and environmental compliance, and increased costs in connection therewith, which could delay our CO2 pipeline construction schedule and initiation of our pipeline operations, and/or increase the costs of constructing our pipelines.  Pipeline projects are also subject to heightened levels of scrutiny as a result of public opposition to projects like the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines.  This scrutiny has the potential to result in delays in permitting, enhanced and prolonged environmental review for pipeline projects, and litigation challenges to regulatory agencies' authorizations of pipeline projects.. Our future performance depends upon our ability to effectively develop our existing oil and natural gas reserves and find or acquire additional oil and natural gas reserves that are economically recoverable.. Unless we can successfully develop our existing reserves and/or replace the reserves that we produce, our reserves will decline, resulting eventually in a decrease in oil and natural gas production and lower revenues and cash flows from operations.  We have historically replaced reserves through both acquisitions and internal organic growth activities.  For internal organic growth activities, the magnitude of proved reserves that we can book in any given year depends on our progress with new floods and the timing of the production response, as well as the success of exploitation projects.  In the future, we may not be able to continue to replace reserves at acceptable costs.  The business of exploring for, developing or acquiring reserves is capital intensive.  We may not be able to make the necessary capital investment to maintain or expand our oil and natural gas reserves if our cash flows from operations continue to be reduced, whether due to current oil or natural gas prices or otherwise, or if external sources of capital become limited or unavailable.  Further, the process of using CO2 for tertiary recovery, and the related infrastructure, requires significant capital investment prior to any resulting and associated production and cash flows from these projects,. 27. Table of Contents. Denbury Resources Inc.. heightening potential capital constraints.  If our capital expenditures are restricted, or if outside capital resources become limited, we will not be able to maintain our current production levels.. Commodity derivative contracts may expose us to potential financial loss.. To reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the prices of oil and natural gas, we enter into commodity derivative contracts in order to economically hedge a portion of our forecasted oil and natural gas production.  As of February 21, 2018, we have oil derivative contracts in place covering 40,500 Bbls/d for 2018, 8,500 Bbls/d for the first half of 2019 and 5,000 Bbls/d for the second half of 2019.  Such derivative contracts expose us to risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including when there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the hedging agreement and actual prices received, when the cash benefit from hedges including a sold put is limited to the extent oil prices fall below the price of our sold puts, or when the counterparty to the derivative contract is financially constrained and defaults on its contractual obligations.  In addition, these derivative contracts may limit the benefit we would otherwise receive from increases in the prices for oil and natural gas.. Shortages of or delays in the availability of oil field equipment, services and qualified personnel could reduce our cash flow and adversely affect results of operations.. The demand for qualified and experienced field personnel, geologists, geophysicists, engineers and other professionals in the oil and natural gas industry can fluctuate significantly, often in correlation with oil and natural gas prices, causing periodic shortages in such personnel.  In the past, during periods of high oil and natural gas prices, we have experienced shortages of oil field and other necessary equipment, including drilling rigs, along with increased prices for such equipment, services and associated personnel.  These types of shortages or price increases could significantly decrease our profit margin, cash flow and operating results and/or restrict or delay our ability to drill wells and conduct our operations, possibly causing us to miss our forecasts and projections.. The marketability of our production is dependent upon transportation lines and other facilities, certain of which we do not control.  When these facilities are unavailable, our operations can be interrupted and our revenues reduced.. The marketability of our oil and natural gas production depends, in part, upon the availability, proximity and capacity of transportation lines owned by third parties.  In general, we do not control these transportation facilities, and our access to them may be limited or denied.  A significant disruption in the availability of, and access to, these transportation lines or other production facilities could adversely impact our ability to deliver to market or produce our oil and thereby cause a significant interruption in our operations.. Our production will decline if our access to sufficient amounts of carbon dioxide is limited.. Our long-term strategy is primarily focused on our CO2 tertiary recovery operations.  The crude oil production from our tertiary recovery projects depends, in large part, on having access to sufficient amounts of naturally occurring and industrial-source CO2.  Our ability to produce oil from these projects would be hindered if our supply of CO2 was limited due to, among other things, problems with our current CO2 producing wells and facilities, including compression equipment, catastrophic pipeline failure or our ability to economically purchase CO2 from industrial sources.  This could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  Our anticipated future crude oil production from tertiary operations is also dependent on the timing, volumes and location of CO2 injections and, in particular, on our ability to increase our combined purchased and produced volumes of CO2 and inject adequate amounts of CO2 into the proper formation and area within each of our tertiary oil fields.. The development of our naturally occurring CO2 sources involves the drilling of wells to increase and extend the CO2 reserves available for use in our tertiary fields.  These drilling activities are subject to many of the same drilling and geological risks of drilling and producing oil and gas wells (see Oil and natural gas development and producing operations involve various risks above).  Furthermore, recent market conditions may cause the delay or cancellation of construction of plants that produce industrial-source CO2 as a byproduct that we can purchase, thus limiting the amount of industrial-source CO2 available for our use in our tertiary operations.. 28. Table of Contents. Denbury Resources Inc.. A cyber incident could occur and result in information theft, data corruption, operational disruption, and/or financial loss.. Our business has become increasingly dependent on digital technologies to conduct day-to-day operations, including certain of our exploration, development and production activities.  We depend on digital technology, among other things, to process and record financial and operating data; analyze seismic and drilling information; monitor and control pipeline and plant equipment; and process and store personally identifiable information of our employees and royalty owners.  Our technologies, systems and networks may become the target of cyber attacks or information security breaches that could result in the disruption of our business operations and/or financial loss.. Although we utilize various procedures and controls to monitor and protect against these threats and to mitigate our exposure to such threats, there can be no assurance that these procedures and controls will be sufficient in preventing security threats from materializing and causing us to suffer such losses in the future.  As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our procedures and controls or to investigate and remediate any cyber vulnerabilities.. We may lose key executive officers or specialized technical employees, which could endanger the future success of our operations.. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our executive officers, other key management and specialized technical personnel.  Our employees, including our executive officers, are employed at will and do not have employment agreements.  We believe that our future success depends, in large part, upon our ability to hire and retain highly skilled personnel.. Environmental laws and regulations are costly and stringent.. Our exploration, production, and marketing operations are subject to complex and stringent federal, state, and local laws and regulations governing, among other things, the discharge of substances into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of human health and the protection of endangered species.  These laws and regulations and related public policy considerations affect the costs, manner, and feasibility of our operations and require us to make significant expenditures in order to comply.  Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil, and criminal penalties, the imposition of investigatory and remedial obligations, and the issuance of injunctions that could limit or prohibit our operations.  Some of these laws and regulations may impose joint and several, strict liability for contamination resulting from spills, discharges, and releases of substances, including petroleum hydrocarbons and other wastes, without regard to fault, or the legality of the original conduct.  Under such laws and regulations, we could be required to remove or remediate previously disposed substances and property contamination, including wastes disposed or released by prior owners or operators.. Enactment of executive, legislative or regulatory proposals under consideration could negatively affect our business.. Numerous executive, legislative and regulatory proposals affecting the oil and gas industry could be introduced by various federal and state authorities.  While it is currently anticipated that the President and Congress will attempt to move away from the trend of proposing stricter standards and increasing oversight and regulation at the federal level, it is possible that other proposals affecting the oil and gas industry could be enacted or adopted in the future, which could result in increased costs or additional operating restrictions that could have an effect on demand for oil and natural gas or prices at which it can be sold.. The loss of one or more of our large oil and natural gas purchasers could have an adverse effect on our operations.. For the year ended December 31, 2017, two purchasers individually accounted for 10% or more of our oil and natural gas revenues and, in the aggregate, for 32% of such revenues.  The loss of a large single purchaser could adversely impact the prices we receive or the transportation costs we incur.. Certain of our operations may be limited during certain periods due to severe weather conditions and other regulations.. Certain of our operations in North Dakota, Montana and Wyoming, including the construction of CO2 pipelines, the drilling of new wells and production from existing wells, are conducted in areas subject to extreme weather conditions, including severe cold, snow and rain, which conditions may cause such operations to be hindered or delayed, or otherwise require that they be conducted only during non-winter months, and depending on the severity of the weather, could have a negative effect on our results. 29. Table of Contents. Denbury Resources Inc.. of operations in these areas.  Further, certain of our operations in these areas are confined to certain time periods due to environmental regulations, federal restrictions on when drilling can take place on federal lands, and lease stipulations designed to protect certain wildlife, which regulations, restrictions and limitations could slow down our operations, cause delays, increase costs and have a negative effect on our results of operations.  Our operations in the coastal areas of the Gulf Coast region may be subjected to adverse weather conditions such as hurricanes, flooding and tropical storms in and around the Gulf of Mexico that can damage oil and natural gas facilities and delivery systems and disrupt operations, which can also increase costs and have a negative effect on our results of operations.. If commodity prices decline appreciably, we may be required to write down the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties.. Under full cost accounting rules related to our oil and natural gas properties, we are required each quarter to perform a ceiling test calculation, with the net capitalized costs of our oil and natural gas properties limited to the lower of unamortized cost or the cost center ceiling.  The present value of estimated future net revenues from proved oil and natural gas reserves included in the cost center ceiling is based on the average first-day-of-the-month oil and natural gas price for each month during a 12-month rolling period prior to the end of a particular reporting period.  During 2015 and 2016, we recorded full cost pool ceiling test write-downs of our oil and natural gas properties totaling $4.9 billion ($3.1 billion net of tax) and $810.9 million ($508.2 million net of tax), respectively.  We did not have a ceiling test write-down during 2017.  Future material write-downs of our oil and natural gas properties, as well as future impairment of other long-lived assets, could significantly reduce earnings during the period in which such write-down and/or impairment occurs and would result in a corresponding reduction to long-lived assets and equity.  See Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates.. Conversion into common stock of the 3½% Convertible Senior Notes due 2024 or the 5% Convertible Senior Notes due 2023 may dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders, and might depress the market price of our common stock.. The conversion of some or all of the 3½% Convertible Senior Notes due 2024 or the 5% Convertible Senior Notes due 2023 (see Note 5, Long-Term Debt, to the Consolidated Financial Statements) may dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders of our common stock.  Any sales in the public market of the shares of our common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock.  In addition, the existence of the 3½% Convertible Senior Notes due 2024 and the 5% Convertible Senior Notes due 2023 may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of both series of notes could be used to satisfy short positions, and anticipated conversion of both series of notes into shares of our common stock could depress the market price of our common stock."
