[1] "Item 1A.     Risk Factors. Various risks and uncertainties could affect our business. Any of the risk factors described below or elsewhere in this report or our other filings with the SEC could have a material and adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In any such event, the trading price of our common stock could decline. It is not possible to predict or identify all risk factors. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also impair our business operations.. A decline in general economic conditions could adversely affect our financial results.. Consumer spending habits, including discretionary spending on dining at restaurants such as ours, are affected by many factors including:. • prevailing economic conditions, including interest rates;. • energy costs, especially gasoline prices;. • levels of employment;. • salaries and wage rates, including tax rates; and. • consumer confidence.. Weakness or uncertainty regarding the United States economy, as a result of reactions to consumer credit availability, increasing energy prices, inflation, increasing interest rates, unemployment, war, terrorist activity or other unforeseen events could adversely affect consumer spending habits, which may result in lower restaurant sales.. 8. The restaurant business is highly competitive, and if we are unable to compete effectively, our business will be adversely affected.. Each of our restaurants competes with a wide variety of restaurants ranging from national and regional restaurant chains to locally owned restaurants. The following are important aspects of competition:. • restaurant location;. • advantageous commercial real estate suitable for restaurants;. • number and location of competing restaurants;. • attractiveness and repair and maintenance of facilities;. • ability to develop and support evolving technology to deliver a consistent and compelling guest experience;. • food quality, new product development and value;. • dietary trends, including nutritional content;. • training, courtesy and hospitality standards;. • ability to attract and retain high quality staff;. • quality and speed of service; and. • the effectiveness of marketing and advertising programs, including the effective use of social media platforms and digital marketing initiatives. The returns and profitability of our restaurants may be negatively impacted by a number of factors, including those described below.. Food service businesses and the performance of our individual restaurants may be materially and adversely affected by factors such as:. • consumer preferences, including nutritional and dietary concerns;. • consumer spending habits;. • global, national, regional and local economic conditions;. • demographic trends;. • traffic patterns;. • the type, number and location of competing restaurants; and. • the ability to renew leased properties on commercially acceptable terms, if at all.. Dependence on frequent deliveries of fresh produce and other food products subjects food service businesses to the risk that shortages or interruptions in supply caused by adverse weather, food safety warnings, animal disease outbreak or other conditions beyond our control could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of ingredients. Our inability to effectively manage supply chain risk could increase our costs and limit the availability of products critical to our restaurant operations.. In addition, the food service industry in general, and our results of operations and financial condition in particular, may be adversely affected by unfavorable trends or developments such as:. • inflation;. • volatility in certain commodity markets;. • increased food costs;. • health concerns arising from food safety issues and other food-related pandemics, outbreaks of flu viruses, such as avian flu, or other diseases;. • increased energy costs;. • labor and employee benefits costs (including increases in minimum hourly wage, employment tax rates, health care costs and workers' compensation costs);. • regional weather conditions; and. • the availability of experienced management and hourly employees.. Operating results that are lower than our current estimates may cause us to incur impairment charges on certain long-lived assets and potentially close certain restaurants.. 9. The financial performance of our franchisees can negatively impact our business.. As we are heavily franchised, our financial results are contingent upon the operational and financial success of our franchisees. We receive royalties, advertising contributions and, in some cases, lease payments from our franchisees. While our franchise agreements are designed to require our franchisees to maintain brand consistency, the significant percentage of franchise-operated restaurants may expose us to risks not otherwise encountered if we maintained ownership and control of the restaurants. If our franchisees do not successfully operate their restaurants in a manner consistent with our standards, or if customers have negative experiences due to issues with food quality or operational execution at our franchised locations, our brand could be harmed, which in turn could negatively impact our business. Additional risks include franchisee defaults on their obligations to us arising from financial or other difficulties encountered by them, such as the inability to pay financial obligations including royalties, rent on leases on which we retain contingent liability, and certain loans on which we have guarantees; limitations on enforcement of franchise obligations due to bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings; the inability to participate in business strategy changes due to financial constraints; and failure to operate restaurants in accordance with required standards, including food quality and safety. If a significant number of franchisees become financially distressed, it could harm our operating results. For 2017, our ten largest franchisees accounted for 31% of our franchise revenue. The balance of our franchise revenue is derived from the remaining 248 franchisees.. Our growth strategy depends on our ability and that of our franchisees to open new restaurants. Delays or failures in opening new restaurants could adversely affect our planned growth.. The development of new restaurants may be adversely affected by risks such as:. • costs and availability of capital for the company and/or franchisees;. • competition for restaurant sites;. • inability to identify suitable franchisees;. • negotiation of favorable purchase or lease terms for restaurant sites;. • inability to obtain all required governmental approvals and permits;. • delays in completion of construction;. • challenge of identifying, recruiting and training qualified restaurant managers;. • developed restaurants not achieving the expected revenue or cash flow;. • challenges specific to the growth of international operations and nontraditional restaurants that are different from traditional domestic development; and. • general economic conditions.. The locations where we have restaurants may cease to be attractive as demographic patterns change.. The success of our owned and franchised restaurants is significantly influenced by location. Current locations may not continue to be attractive as demographic patterns change. It is possible that the neighborhood or economic conditions where our restaurants are located could decline in the future, potentially resulting in reduced sales at those locations.. Our expansion into international markets may present increased risks due to lower customer awareness of our brand, our unfamiliarity with those markets and other factors.. The international markets in which our franchisees currently operate and any additional markets our franchisees may enter outside of the United States, have many differences compared to our domestic markets. There may be lower consumer familiarity with the Denny's brand in these markets, as well as different competitive conditions, consumer tastes and economic, political and health conditions. Additionally, there are risks associated with sourcing quality ingredients and other commodities in a cost-effective and timely manner. As a result, our franchised international restaurants may take longer to reach expected sales and profit levels, or may never do so, thereby affecting the brand's overall growth and profitability. Building brand awareness may take longer than expected, which could negatively impact our profitability in those markets.. We are subject to governmental regulations in our international markets impacting the way we do business with our international franchisees. These include antitrust and tax requirements, anti-boycott regulations, import/export/customs and other international trade regulations, the USA Patriot Act and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Failure to comply with any such legal requirements could subject us to monetary liabilities and other sanctions, which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition.. 10. Failure of computer systems, information technology or cyber security could result in material harm to our reputation and business.. We and our franchisees rely on computer systems and information technology to conduct our business. A material failure or interruption of service or a breach in security of our computer systems caused by malware or other attack could cause reduced efficiency in operations, loss or misappropriation of data, or business interruptions, or could impact delivery of food to restaurants or financial functions such as vendor payment or employee payroll. We have business continuity plans that attempt to anticipate and mitigate such failures, but it is possible that significant capital investment could be required to rectify these problems, or more likely that cash flows could be impacted, in the shorter term.. We receive and maintain certain personal information about our guests, employees and franchisees. Our use of this information is regulated at the federal and state levels, as well as by certain third-party contracts. If our security and information systems are compromised and this information is obtained by unauthorized persons or used inappropriately, it could adversely affect our reputation, operations, results of operations and financial condition, and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties. As privacy and information security laws and regulations change or cyber risks evolve pertaining to this data, we may incur additional costs to ensure we remain in compliance.. Numerous government regulations impact our business, and our failure to comply with them could adversely affect our business.. We and our franchisees are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing, among other things:. • preparation, labeling, advertising and sale of food;. • sanitation;. • health and fire safety;. • land use, sign restrictions and environmental matters;. • employee health care requirements, including the implementation and uncertain legal, regulatory and cost implications of the health care reform law;. • management and protection of the personnel data of our guests, employees and franchisees;. • payment card regulation and related industry rules;. • the sale of alcoholic beverages;. • hiring and employment practices, including minimum wage and tip credit laws and fair labor standards; and. • Americans with Disabilities Act.. A substantial number of our employees are paid the minimum wage. Accordingly, increases in the minimum wage or decreases in the allowable tip credit (which reduces wages deemed to be paid to tipped employees in certain states) increase our labor costs. We have attempted to offset increases in the minimum wage through pricing and various cost control efforts, however, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in these efforts in the future.. The operation of our franchisee system is also subject to regulations enacted by a number of states and rules promulgated by the Federal Trade Commission. Due to our international franchising, we are subject to governmental regulations throughout the world impacting the way we do business with our international franchisees. These include antitrust and tax requirements, anti-boycott regulations, import/export/customs and other international trade regulations, the USA Patriot Act and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Additionally, given our significant concentration of restaurants in California, changes in regulations in that state could have a disproportionate impact on our operations. If we or our franchisees fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we or our franchisees could be subjected to restaurant closure, fines, penalties and litigation, which may be costly and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the future enactment of additional legislation regulating the franchise relationship could adversely affect our operations.. We have implemented various aspects of The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act, however the law or other related requirements may change. Additionally, the health care reform laws will require restaurant companies such as ours to disclose calorie information on their menus effective May 4, 2018. We early adopted this requirement during 2015 and did not incur any material costs from compliance with this provision of the law.. 11. We are also subject to federal, state and international laws regulating the offer and sale of franchises. Such laws impose registration and disclosure requirements on franchisors in the offer and sale of franchises, and may contain provisions that supersede the terms of franchise agreements, including limitations on the ability of franchisors to terminate franchises and alter franchise arrangements.. We are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, but these rules have not historically had a material impact on our operations. However, we cannot predict the effect of possible future environmental legislation or regulations on our operations.. Litigation may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to the risk of, or are involved in from time to time, complaints or litigation brought by former, current or prospective employees, customers, franchisees, vendors, landlords, shareholders or others. We assess contingencies to determine the degree of probability and range of possible loss for potential accrual in our financial statements. An estimated loss contingency is accrued if it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. Because lawsuits are inherently unpredictable and unfavorable resolutions could occur, assessing contingencies is highly subjective and requires judgments about future events. We regularly review contingencies to determine the adequacy of the accruals and related disclosures. However, the amount of ultimate loss may differ from these estimates. A judgment that is not covered by insurance or that is significantly in excess of our insurance coverage for any claims could materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. In addition, regardless of whether any claims against us are valid or whether we are found to be liable, claims may be expensive to defend, and may divert management's attention away from operations and hurt our performance. Further, adverse publicity resulting from claims may harm our business or that of our franchisees.. Food safety and quality concerns may negatively impact our business and profitability.. Incidents or reports of food- or water-borne illness, or other food safety issues, food contamination or tampering, employee hygiene and cleanliness failures, improper employee conduct, or presence of communicable disease at our restaurants or suppliers could lead to product liability or other claims. Such incidents or reports could negatively affect our brand and reputation, and a decrease in customer traffic resulting from these reports could negatively impact our revenues and profits. Similar incidents or reports occurring at other restaurant brands unrelated to us could likewise create negative publicity, which could negatively impact consumer behavior towards us. In addition, if a regional or global health pandemic occurs, depending upon its location, duration and severity, our business could be severely affected.. We rely on our domestic and international vendors, as do our franchisees, to provide quality ingredients and to comply with applicable laws and industry standards. A failure of one of our domestic or international vendors to meet our quality standards, or meet domestic or international food industry standards, could result in a disruption in our supply chain and negatively impact our brand and our business and profitability. Our inability to manage an event such as a product recall or product related litigation could also cause our results to suffer.. Unfavorable publicity, or a failure to respond effectively to adverse publicity, could harm our brand's reputation.. Multi-unit food service businesses such as ours can be materially and adversely affected by widespread negative publicity of any type, including food safety, outbreak of flu viruses (such as avian flu) or other health concerns, criminal activity, guest discrimination, harassment, employee relations or other operating issues. The increasing use of social media platforms has increased the speed and scope of unfavorable publicity and could hinder our ability to quickly and effectively respond to such reports. Regardless of whether the allegations or complaints are accurate or valid, negative publicity relating to a particular restaurant or a limited number of restaurants could adversely affect public perception of the entire brand.. If we fail to recruit, develop and retain talented employees, our business could suffer.. Our future success significantly depends on the continued services and performance of our key management personnel. Our future performance will depend on our ability to attract, motivate and retain these and other key officers and key team members, particularly regional and area managers and restaurant general managers. Competition for these employees is intense.. 12. If our internal controls are ineffective, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud.. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. We maintain a documented system of internal controls which is reviewed and tested by the company's full time Internal Audit department. The Internal Audit department reports directly to the Audit and Finance Committee of the Board of Directors. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting is not intended to provide absolute assurance that we would prevent or detect a misstatement of our financial statements or fraud. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud. A significant financial reporting failure or material weakness in internal control over financial reporting could cause a loss of investor confidence and decline in the market price of our common stock.. A change in accounting standards can have a significant effect on our reported financial results. New pronouncements and varying interpretations of pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing accounting rules or the questioning of current accounting practices may adversely affect our reporting financial results. Additionally, generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by us. Changes in these principles or their interpretations or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates and judgments by us could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance.. Many factors, including those over which we have no control, affect the trading price of our common stock.. Factors such as reports on the economy or the price of commodities, as well as negative or positive announcements by competitors, regardless of whether the report directly relates to our business, could have an impact on the trading price of our common stock. In addition to investor expectations about our prospects, trading activity in our common stock can reflect the portfolio strategies and investment allocation changes of institutional holders, as well as non-operating initiatives such as our share repurchase programs. Any failure to meet market expectations whether for same-store sales, restaurant unit growth, earnings per share or other metrics could cause our share price to decline.. Our indebtedness could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operations.. As of December 27, 2017, we had total indebtedness of $289.2 million, including capital leases. Although we believe that our existing cash balances, funds from operations and amounts available under our credit facility will be adequate to cover our cash flow and liquidity needs, we could seek additional sources of funds, including incurring additional debt, to maintain sufficient cash flow to fund our ongoing operating needs, pay interest and scheduled debt amortization and fund anticipated capital expenditures. We have no material debt maturities scheduled until October 2022. The credit agreement governing most of our indebtedness contains various covenants that could have an adverse effect on our business by limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, merger, acquisition or other corporate opportunities and to fund our operations. Though we currently participate in a share repurchase program, it is subject to restrictions under our credit agreement and there can be no assurance that we will repurchase our common stock pursuant to the program. If we incur additional debt in the future, covenant limitations on our activities and risks associated with such increased debt levels generally could increase. If we are unable to satisfy or refinance our current debt as it comes due, we may default on our debt obligations and lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. For additional information concerning our indebtedness see \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources.\""
