[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. You should consider carefully all of the information set forth or incorporated by reference in this document, and in particular, the following risk factors associated with our business and forward-looking information in this document (see also \"Forward-Looking Statements\" included in Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations). The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we do not currently consider significant may also have an adverse effect on us. If any of the risks below actually occur, our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition or stock price could suffer.. Our performance may be affected by general economic conditions and financial difficulties.. Our performance is subject to worldwide economic conditions and their impact on levels of consumer spending. Some of the factors that have, or have had, an impact on discretionary consumer spending include general economic conditions, employment, consumer debt, changes in personal net worth based on changes in securities market price levels, residential real estate and mortgage markets, taxation, healthcare costs, fuel and energy prices, interest rates, credit availability, consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors.. 10. The worldwide apparel industry is heavily influenced by general economic cycles. Apparel retailing is a cyclical industry that is heavily dependent upon the overall level of consumer spending. Purchases of specialty apparel and related goods tend to be highly correlated with the cycles of the levels of disposable income of consumers. As a result, any substantial deterioration in general economic conditions could materially and adversely affect our net sales and results of operations. Downturns, or the expectation of a downturn, in general economic conditions could materially and adversely affect consumer spending patterns, our sales and our results of operations.. Consumer purchases of discretionary items generally decline during recessionary periods and other periods where disposable income is adversely affected. Any downturn in the economy may affect consumer purchases of our merchandise and have an adverse impact on our sales, results of operations and cash flow. Because apparel generally is a discretionary purchase, declines in consumer spending may have a more negative effect on apparel retailers than on other retailers. A decline in consumer spending may negatively affect our profitability.. Future increases in interest rates or other tightening of the credit markets, or future turmoil in the financial markets, could make it more difficult for us to access funds, to refinance our indebtedness (if necessary), to enter into agreements for new indebtedness, or to obtain funding through the issuance of our securities. Any such adverse changes in the credit or financial markets could also impact the ability of our suppliers to access liquidity, or could result in the insolvency of suppliers, which in turn could lead to their failure to deliver our merchandise. Worsening economic conditions could also result in difficulties for financial institutions (including bank failures) and other parties that we may do business with, which could potentially impair our ability to access financing under existing arrangements or to otherwise recover amounts as they become due under our other contractual arrangements. Additionally, either as a result of, or independent of, any financial difficulties and economic weakness in the United States, material fluctuations in currency exchange rates could have a negative impact on our business.. Our sales, comparable sales and quarterly results of operations have fluctuated in the past and can be expected to continue to fluctuate in the future, and as a result, the market price of our common stock may fluctuate or decline substantially.. Our sales, comparable sales and quarterly results of operations have fluctuated in the past and can be expected to continue to fluctuate in the future and are affected by a variety of factors, including:. •  customer traffic and conversion in our retail locations and e-commerce web-sites;. •  the timing of the fulfillment of purchase orders under our wholesale arrangements;. •  any disruption to our operations that may arise in connection with the implementation of system enhancements;. •  the extent of cannibalization of sales volume of some of our existing retail locations by new retail locations in the same geographic markets or by our e-commerce websites;. •  changes in our merchandise mix;. •  any repositioning of our brands;. •  general economic conditions and, in particular, the retail sales environment;. •  calendar shifts, including shifts of holiday or seasonal periods, occurring in a given calendar period;. •  changes in pregnancy rates and birth rates;. •  actions of competitors;. •  the level of success and/or actions of anchor tenants where we have stores, leased department or wholesale relationships;. •  the impact, timing and success of our efforts to expand our product category offerings through various channels of business;. •  the opening of new stores, the closing of existing stores, and the success of our leased department and wholesale relationships;. •  the timing of new store openings, and leased department and international franchised business openings;. •  fashion trends; and. •  weather conditions and seasonality.. If, at any time, our sales, comparable sales or quarterly results of operations decline or do not meet the expectations of investors, the price of our common stock could decline substantially.. 11. Our business depends on sustained demand for maternity clothing and is sensitive to birth rates, women's fashion trends, economic conditions and consumer spending.. Our business depends upon sustained demand for maternity clothing. Our future performance will be subject to a number of factors beyond our control, including demographic changes, fashion trends, economic conditions, consumer spending and general health concerns that may impact the number of pregnant women. If demand for maternity clothing were to decline for any reason, such as a decrease in the number of pregnancies, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. For example, according to the United States Census Bureau and United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, births declined a total of approximately 8.6% from calendar 2007 to calendar 2016. Although recent statistics suggest that this trend has slowed or reversed, if this trend had continued it could negatively affect our business and results of operations. Additionally, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected if certain non-maternity women's apparel fashions have a more pregnancy-friendly fit. For example, at times, when fashion trends favored, we have been negatively impacted by the popularity of many looser-fitting fashion trends in the non-maternity women's apparel market, such as maxi dresses, baby doll dresses, active bottoms with elastic waists, other soft knit elastic-waist bottoms and shorts, and oversized peasant-style woven tops, all of which can more readily fit a pregnant woman than typical non-maternity fashions, and could thus be purchased in numerous non-maternity retail stores. Downturns, or the expectation of a downturn, in general economic conditions could materially and adversely affect consumer spending patterns, our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the specialty apparel retail business historically has been subject to cyclical variations. Consumer purchases of specialty apparel products, including maternity wear, may decline during recessionary periods and at other times when disposable income is lower. Declines in consumer spending patterns may have a more negative effect on apparel retailers than some other retailers. Therefore, we may not be able to maintain our historical sales and earnings, or remain as profitable, if there is a decline in consumer spending patterns. A prolonged economic downturn could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations.. Our business depends on effective marketing and high customer traffic.. We have many initiatives in our marketing programs particularly with regard to our ecommerce websites, and our social media presence. If our competitors increase their spending on marketing, if our marketing expenses increase, if our marketing becomes less effective than that of our competitors, if search engine algorithms change to our detriment, or if we do not adequately leverage technology and data analytics capabilities needed to generate concise competitive insight, we could experience a material adverse effect on our results of operations. A failure to sufficiently innovate or maintain adequate, effective and efficient marketing strategies could inhibit our ability to maintain brand relevance and drive increased sales.  In addition, U.S. and foreign laws and regulations that make it more difficult or costly to digitally market may impact our ability to maintain brand relevance and drive increased sales.. We depend heavily on locating our stores in successful shopping malls in order to generate customer traffic. Sales at these stores are derived, in part, from the volume of traffic in those malls. We cannot control the development of new shopping malls, the availability or cost of appropriate locations within existing or new shopping malls or the success of existing or new mall stores.. The success of all of our mall stores will depend, in part, on the ability of each mall's anchor tenants, such as large department stores, other tenants and area attractions to generate consumer traffic in the vicinity of our stores, and the popularity of malls as shopping destinations. Our sales volume and mall traffic have been and may in the future be adversely affected by, among other things, economic downturns in a particular area, the closing of anchor tenants, competition from e-commerce retailers, non-mall retailers and other malls where we do not have stores, increases in gasoline prices and the closing or decline in popularity of other stores in the malls in which we are located. Many malls are experiencing significantly lower levels of customer traffic than in the past, driven by overall poor economic conditions as well as the closure of certain mall anchor tenants. An uncertain economic outlook could curtail new shopping mall development, decrease shopping mall traffic, reduce the number of hours that shopping mall operators keep their shopping malls open or force them to cease operations entirely. A continued reduction in mall traffic as a result of these or any other factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our success depends on our ability to identify and respond to fashion trends on a timely basis.. The apparel industry is subject to rapidly changing fashion trends and shifting consumer demands. Accordingly, our success depends on the priority that our target customers place on fashion and our ability to anticipate, identify and capitalize on emerging fashion trends. Our ability or our failure to anticipate, identify or react appropriately to changes in styles or trends could lead to, among other things, excess inventories and higher markdowns, as well as the decreased appeal of our brands. Particular fashion trends, or an inaccuracy of our forecasts regarding fashion trends, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, at times, when fashion trends favored, we have been negatively impacted by the popularity of many looser-fitting fashion trends in the non-maternity women's apparel market, such as maxi dresses, baby doll dresses, active bottoms with elastic waists, other soft knit elastic-waist bottoms and shorts, and oversized peasant-style woven tops, all of which can more readily fit a pregnant woman than typical non-maternity fashions, and could thus be purchased in numerous non-maternity retail stores.. 12. Our failure to successfully manage and expand our e-commerce business and its connectivity with our brick-and-mortar stores experience could have a material adverse impact on our business.. The expansion of our ecommerce business is one of our key strategic initiatives, as is furthering the connectivity between our ecommerce and brick-and-mortar stores (including, without limitation, through our fulfill from store and buy-online-pickup-in-store initiatives).  The successful operation of our e-commerce business depends on our ability to maintain the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our online order-taking and our fulfillment operations, and on our ability to provide a shopping experience that will generate orders and return visits to our sites and stores, including by updating our e-commerce platform to stay abreast of changing consumer shopping habits such as the significantly increased use of mobile devices to shop online.  Risks associated with our e-commerce business include:. •  risks associated with the failure of the computer systems that operate our website including, among others, inadequate system capacity, security breaches, computer viruses, human error, changes in programming, system upgrades or migration of these services to new systems;. •  risks associated with any failure to development processes and procedures to properly handle ecommerce initiated transactions in our brick-and-mortar stores;. •  unforeseen delays in technology implementation or otherwise which cause us to fail to timely implement or enhance our omnichannel initiatives such as fulfill from store and buy-online-pickup-in-store);. •  disruptions in telephone service or power outages;. •  reliance on third parties for computer hardware and software, updates as well as delivery of merchandise to our customers;. •  rapid technology changes and changes in consumer shopping habits such as the significantly increased use of mobile devices and apps to shop online;. •  credit card fraud;. •  the diversion of sales from our retail locations and other distribution points;. •  natural disasters or adverse weather conditions;. •  changes in applicable federal and state regulations;. •  negative reviews on social media;. •  liability for online content; and. •  consumer privacy and information security concerns and regulation.. Problems in any one or more of these areas could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows, and could damage our reputation and brand.. We may not be successful in maintaining and expanding our business.. Any future growth depends significantly on:. •  our ability to successfully establish and operate through new distribution points (which could include additional digital as well as brick-and-mortar locations);. •  our ability to improve and expand our e-commerce business in an increasingly competitive environment (including by gaining the benefits from, and mitigating the risks of, our various e-commerce initiatives);. •  our ability to successfully maintain our current, leased department relationships, and to operate such leased department relationships on a profitable basis;. •  the success and profitability of our wholesale, including our ability to successfully establish new, and to maintain our current, wholesale relationships; and. •  the success and profitability of our efforts to expand our product category offerings.. 13. This growth, if it occurs, will place increased demands on our management, operational and administrative resources. These increased demands and operating complexities could cause us to operate our business less effectively, which, in turn, could cause a deterioration in our financial performance and negatively impact our growth. Any planned growth will also require that we continually monitor and upgrade our management information and other systems, as well as our procurement and distribution infrastructure.. Our ability to establish and operate new stores and our leased department relationships successfully depends on many factors, including, among others, our ability to:. •  identify and obtain suitable distribution points (both digital and brick-and-mortar), the availability of which is outside of our control;. •  negotiate favorable terms with third parties for such distribution (whether they be landlords, additional leased department partners, additional wholesale partners or digital distribution partners);. •  source sufficient levels of inventory to meet the additional distribution needs;. •  successfully address competition, merchandising and distribution challenges; and. •  hire, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel to manage and operate such additional distribution opportunities.. The success and profitability of our e-commerce business depends on many factors, including, those identified previously above as well as, our ability to:. •  drive traffic to our retail websites through our, digital marketing and search engine optimization initiatives, and convert such traffic to sales efficiently and effectively;. •  changes in federal or state regulation that may impose restrictions on e-commerce or make e-commerce more costly, including privacy or other consumer protection laws;. •  breaches of Internet security; and. •  failure to keep up with changes in technology.. There can be no assurance that we will be able to grow our business and achieve our goals. For example, as part of Macy's previously announced closure of approximately 100 stores, early in fiscal 2017 Macy's completed closure of 68 stores, which included 59 locations where we had a leased department within the store. Even if we succeed in establishing new stores, further developing our leased department relationships, and further expanding our wholesale relationships, we cannot assure that these initiatives will achieve planned revenue or profitability levels in the time periods estimated by us, or at all. If any of these initiatives fails to achieve or is unable to sustain acceptable revenue and profitability levels, we may incur significant costs.. Our Share price may be volatile and could decline substantially.. The market price of our common stock has been, and is expected to continue to be, volatile, both because of actual and perceived changes in our financial results and prospects, and because of general volatility in the stock market. The factors that could cause fluctuations in our share price may include, among other factors discussed in this section, the following:. •  actual or anticipated variations in the financial results and prospects of our business or other companies in the retail business;. •  changes in financial estimates by Wall Street research analysts;. •  actual or anticipated changes in the United States economy or the retailing environment;. •  changes in the market valuations of other specialty apparel or retail companies;. •  announcements by our competitors or us;. •  mergers or other business combinations involving us;. •  additions and departures of key personnel;. •  changes in accounting principles;. •  the passage of legislation or other developments affecting us or our industry;. •  the trading volume of our common stock in the public market;. •  changes in economic conditions;. 14. •  financial market conditions;. •  natural disasters, terrorist acts, acts of war or periods of civil unrest; and. •  the realization of some or all of the risks described in this section entitled \"Risk Factors.\". In addition, the stock markets have experienced significant price and trading volume fluctuations from time to time, and the market prices of the equity securities of retailers have been extremely volatile and are sometimes subject to sharp price and trading volume changes. These broad market fluctuations may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. Changes to federal, state or provincial income tax legislation could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. From time to time, new tax legislation is adopted by the federal government and various states or other regulatory bodies. Significant changes in tax legislation could adversely affect our business or results of operations in a material way. On December 22, 2018, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"TCJA\"). The changes included in the TCJA are broad and complex. The final transition impacts of the TCJA may differ from the estimates provided elsewhere in this report, possibly materially, due to, among other things, changes in interpretations of the TCJA, any legislative action to address questions that arise because of the TCJA, any changes in accounting standards for income taxes or related interpretations in response to the TCJA, or any updates or changes to estimates we have utilized to calculate the transition impacts, including impacts from changes to current year earnings estimates. As these and other tax laws and related regulations change, our financial results could be materially impacted. Give the unpredictability of possible changes and their potential interdependency, it is very difficult to assess whether the overall effect of such potential tax changes would be cumulatively positive or negative for our earnings and cash flow, but such changes could adversely impact our financial results.. Changes in accounting standards could significantly affect our results of operations and the presentation of those results.. Changes in accounting standards, including new interpretations and applications of accounting standards, may have adverse effects on our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\") have issued and/or adopted new pronouncements that proposes numerous significant changes to current accounting standards. These new standards could significantly change the presentation of financial information and our results of operations. Additionally, the new standards may require us to make systems and other changes that increase our operating costs. Specifically, implementing the new accounting standards related to leases could require us to make significant changes to our lease management system or other accounting systems.. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely impacted at any time by a significant number of competitors.. We operate in a highly competitive environment characterized by few barriers to entry. We compete against department stores, specialty retail chains, discount stores, independent retail stores and catalog and Internet-based retailers. Many of our competitors are larger and have substantially greater financial and other resources than us. Further, we do not typically advertise using television and radio media and thus do not reach customers through means our competitors may use. Our mid- and premium-priced merchandise faces a highly fragmented competitive landscape that includes locally-based, single-unit retailers, as well as a handful of multi-unit maternity operations. In the value-priced maternity apparel business, we face competition on a nationwide basis from retailers such as Gap, H&M, Old Navy, Target and Wal-Mart. Substantially all of these competitors also sell maternity apparel on their websites. We also face increasing competition from Internet-based retailers such as ASOS, Pink Blush, Zulily and Hatch, as well as various competitors who sell through marketplace sites.  Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected by this competition, including the potential for increased competition in the future. For example, the maternity apparel business has previously experienced oversupply conditions due to increased competition, which resulted in a greater level of industry-wide markdowns and markdowns recognized by us on sales from our retail locations. There can be no assurance that these conditions will not occur again or worsen.. 15. Our relationships with third-party retailers may not be successful.. We cannot guarantee successful results from or the continuation of our leased department relationships with third-party retailers such as Macy's, buybuy BABY and Boscov's or any of our wholesale relationships. Under our agreements with our retail partners, those partners do not make any promises or representations as to the potential amount of business we can expect from the sale of our product through their distribution points. The success of our business third-party retailers is highly dependent on the actions and decisions of such third-party retailers, which are outside of our control. The retailers could limit the merchandise carried, close stores, go out of business or terminate their agreements with us. Our failure to properly manage our third-party retailer business (including any failure by us in timely delivering goods to any third-party retailer or any failure to respond to the actions of, or changes in, business conditions at third-party retailers) would have a direct impact on the profitability and continuation of these relationships.. Our relationships with third-party retailers may be terminated at any time.. We cannot guarantee the continuation of our relationships with third-party retailers.  Such retailers can discontinue our products at any time and offer a competitor's maternity apparel products, or none at all. The contractual commitments of our retailer customers are not long-term in nature. Continued positive relations with a retailer depend upon various factors, including price, customer service, consumer demand and competition. Certain of our third-party retailer partners have multiple vendor policies and may seek to offer a competitor's products or services at new or existing locations. If any significant retailer materially reduces, terminates or is unwilling to expand its relationship with us, or requires price reductions or other adverse modifications in our selling terms, our sales would suffer.. Additionally, most major retailers continually evaluate and often modify their in-store retail strategies, including product placement, store set-up and design, promotions and demographic targets. Our business could suffer significant setbacks in net sales and operating income if one or more of our major retail customers modified its current retail strategy resulting in a termination or reduction of its business relationship with us, a reduction in store penetration or an unfavorable product placement within such retailer's stores, any or all of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We may not be successful in maintaining and expanding our marketing partnership programs.. We cannot guarantee successful results from the continuation of, or the expansion of, our marketing partnership programs which utilize our opt-in customer database and various in-store marketing initiatives. The success of our marketing partnership programs is highly dependent on the actions and decisions of the third-party consumer products companies to whom we provide these services. Should these third-party consumer products companies decide to limit the services provided by us, go out of business or terminate their agreements with us, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Further, there is no guarantee that we will be able to expand this part of our business through agreements with new third parties. In addition, our ability to provide the services is highly dependent on our successful collection of opt-in customer data (which is a direct result of customer traffic to our stores and, to a lesser extent, our websites) as well as applicable law relating to the collection and transfer of the personally identifiable information of our customers. A failure on our part to collect adequate amounts of customer data or any change in state, local or federal law which further restricts our ability to collect this information could cause us to terminate or limit the services we can provide to the third-party consumer products companies and would ultimately adversely affect our revenue from these relationships. Further, although we believe there may be an opportunity to more actively market our full customer database to a much broader range of consumer products and services companies that market to families with children, we cannot guarantee that these efforts will be successful.. We require a significant amount of cash to fund our operations and future growth.. Our ability to fund our operations and future growth, depends upon our ability to generate cash. Our success in generating cash depends upon the results of our operations and the amount of cash we use in investing activities, as well as upon general economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control.. An inability to generate sufficient cash could have important consequences. For example, it could:. •  increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. •  limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;. •  place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors;. •  limit our ability to borrow money;. •  make it more difficult for us to open new stores or improve or expand existing stores;. 16. •  limit our ability to invest in infrastructure or adequately promote our e-commerce activity;. •  require us to incur significant additional indebtedness; and. •  make it more difficult for us to pursue strategic acquisitions, alliances and partnerships.. If we do not comply with the terms of our existing debt agreements, and such debt agreements cannot be amended or replaced with new indebtedness, we may be in default of our obligations under such debt agreements.. Our existing debt agreements (including our credit facility and our term loan agreement) contain a number of affirmative and negative covenants and representations and warranties. We have, in the past, been required to seek waivers of compliance with, or amendments of, certain of the financial covenants in the debt agreements, and we may be required to seek such waivers or amendments in the future. Our ability to meet these financial covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, and there can be no assurance that the lenders will grant any required waivers under, or amendments to, the debt agreements if for any reason we are unable to meet the requirements of such covenants.. If we fail to comply with covenants, representations or warranties under our debt agreements and do not either receive a waiver or amendment from our lenders or refinance the indebtedness subject to such agreements, such failure could trigger a default under our debt agreements. If we default, the lenders under those debt agreements could declare all borrowings owed to them, including accrued interest and other fees, to be due and payable, which declaration could have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations.. Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly.. Our $25.0 million term loan bears interest at a variable rate equal to a LIBOR rate plus 9.00%. Borrowings under our $50.0 million revolving credit facility bear interest at a variable rate equal to, at our election, either the lender's base rate plus 0.50%, or a LIBOR rate plus 1.50%. Additional borrowings under our revolving credit facility, which could significantly increase in the future, would bear interest at a variable rate. We have exposure for the variable interest rate indebtedness under these debt instruments and, as a result, an increase in interest rates could result in a substantial increase in interest expense, especially if borrowings under our revolving credit facility increase.. The terms of our debt instruments impose financial and operating restrictions.. Our term loan and credit facility agreements each contain restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. These covenants limit or restrict, among other things, our ability to:. •  incur additional indebtedness;. •  pay dividends or make other distributions in respect of our equity securities, or purchase or redeem capital stock, or make certain investments;. •  have our subsidiaries pay dividends, make loans or transfer assets to us;. •  sell assets, including the capital stock of our subsidiaries;. •  enter into any transactions with our affiliates;. •  transfer any capital stock of any subsidiary or permit any subsidiary to issue capital stock;. •  create liens;. •  enter into certain sale/leaseback transactions;. •  effect a consolidation or merger or transfer of all or substantially all of our assets; and. •  engage in other lines of business unless substantially related or incidental to our existing business.. 17. These limitations and restrictions may materially and adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities that may be in our best interests. In addition, our ability to borrow under the credit facility is subject to the borrowing base requirements of both our term loan and our credit facility agreements. If we breach any of the covenants under our term loan and credit facility agreements, we may be in default under either or both of these agreements. If we default, the lenders under our term loan agreement and the lender under our credit facility agreement could declare all borrowings owed to them, including accrued interest and other fees, to be due and payable. Moreover, our term loan and credit facility agreements provide the lenders considerable discretion to impose reserves or availability blocks, which could materially impair the amount of borrowings that would otherwise be available to us. There can be no assurance that the lenders under the term loan and credit facility agreements will not impose such actions during the term of the debt facility and further, were they to do so, the resulting impact of this action could materially and adversely impair our liquidity.. We depend on our senior leadership team and may not be able to retain or replace these employees or recruit additional qualified personnel, which would harm our business.. Our business and success is materially dependent on attracting and retaining members of our senior leadership team to formulate and execute the Company's strategic and business plans.  In particular, although we currently have a director serving as our interim Chief Executive Officer, we are currently without a permanent Chief Executive Officer.  The failure to recruit and hire a new Chief Executive Officer in a timely manner, or the loss of the services of any of our other senior executives, particularly during this transitionary period, could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects.  Leadership changes can be inherently difficult to manage and may cause material disruption to our business or management team.  Changes in senior management could lead to an environment that lacks inspiration and/or a lack of commitment by our employees, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our operations in international markets, and our earnings in those markets, may be affected by legal, regulatory, political and economic risks.. We design and contract the manufacture of over 90% of the merchandise we sell using factories located throughout the world, predominantly outside of the United States. As a result, our business is subject to risks associated with international operations. These risks include the burdens of complying with foreign laws and regulations, unexpected changes in tariffs, taxes or regulatory requirements, and political unrest and corruption.. Regulatory changes could limit the countries in which we sell, produce or source our products or significantly increase the cost of operating in or obtaining materials originating from certain countries. Restrictions imposed by such changes can have a particular impact on our business when, after we have moved our operations to a particular location, new unfavorable regulations are enacted in that area or favorable regulations currently in effect are changed.. Countries in which our products are manufactured or sold may from time to time impose additional new regulations, or modify existing regulations, including:. •  changes in duties, taxes, tariffs and other charges on imports;. •  limitations on the quantity of goods which may be imported into the United States from a particular country;. •  requirements as to where products and/or inputs are manufactured or sourced;. •  creation of export licensing requirements, imposition of restrictions on export quantities or specification of minimum export pricing and/or export prices or duties;. •  limitations on foreign owned businesses; or. •  government actions to cancel contracts, re-denominate the official currency, renounce or default on obligations, renegotiate terms unilaterally or expropriate assets.. In addition, political and economic changes or volatility, geopolitical regional conflicts, terrorist activity, political unrest, civil strife, acts of war, public corruption and other economic or political uncertainties could interrupt and negatively affect our business operations. All of these factors could result in increased costs or decreased revenues and could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations.. 18. Recently, political discourse in the United States has increasingly focused on ways to discourage United States corporations from outsourcing manufacturing and production activities to foreign jurisdictions. Tax proposals may include changes, which could, if implemented, have an adverse impact on us, or new import tariffs, which could adversely affect us because we sell products that are principally manufactured outside the United States. It has also been suggested that the United States may materially modify or withdraw from some of its existing trade agreements. Any of these actions, if ultimately enacted, could adversely affect our results of operations or profitability. Further, our image, the reputation of our brands and our stock price may be adversely affected if we are publicly singled out for criticism by government officials as a result of our foreign operations.. We are also subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, in addition to the anti-corruption laws of the foreign countries in which we operate. Although we implement policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies. Any such violation could result in sanctions or other penalties and have an adverse effect on our business, reputation and operating results.. We may not actually collect the incentive package benefits offered to us in connection with the relocations of our headquarters and distribution facility.. In fiscal 2015 we completed the relocation of our corporate headquarters and distribution operations from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania to southern New Jersey. To help us offset the costs of these relocations, the Board of the New Jersey Economic Development Authority approved us for an incentive package of $40 million in benefits, over a 10-year period, from the State of New Jersey under the Grow New Jersey Assistance Program. In order to receive the benefits of the incentive package we need to meet certain levels of annual jobs and other requirements. If we do not meet these job levels or other requirements on an annual basis, we will not receive some or all of the benefits. Our inability to receive these benefits could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations.. We are heavily dependent on our information technology systems and our ability to effectively maintain and upgrade these systems from time to time. Upgrades to our inventory planning and allocation systems and e-commerce platform may not be successful.. Historically, the operation of our vertically-integrated business model relied heavily on our internally-developed information technology systems (\"IT Systems\"). In particular, we have relied on point-of-sale terminals, which provide information to our core merchandise system used to track sales and inventory, and on our Internet websites through which we sell merchandise to our customers. In order to ensure that our systems are adequate to handle our anticipated business growth and are upgraded as necessary to effectively manage our store inventory and our e-commerce operations, we decided to augment our internal IT Systems with best-in-class third party solutions. In fiscal 2016 we completed the implementation of a best-in-class tool for inventory allocation. In the first quarter of fiscal 2017 we re-platformed our historically internally-managed e-commerce website to a leading third-party digital commerce solution provider, to be integrated with a third-party e-commerce order management system. The cost of these system upgrades and enhancements was significant. There can be no assurance that our investment in these new systems will be successful or that the transition to these new systems will not result in disruptions to our business. If these systems are not successful or if we suffer any such disruptions, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. We have two data centers supporting our business functions: one in our corporate headquarters location in Moorestown, New Jersey and the second in our distribution center in Florence, New Jersey. Although our software programs and data are backed up and securely stored off-site, our servers and computer systems, and our operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from:. •  fire, flood and other natural disasters;. •  power loss, computer systems failures, Internet and telecommunications or data network failures;. •  operator negligence, and improper operation by or supervision of employees;. •  physical and electronic loss of data or security breaches, misappropriation and similar events; and. •  computer viruses.. Any disruption in the operation of our IT Systems, the loss of employees knowledgeable about such systems or our failure to continue to effectively modify such systems could interrupt our operations or interfere with our ability to monitor inventory, which could result in reduced net sales and affect our operations and financial performance. Our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if our servers and systems were inoperable, inaccessible, or inadequate. In addition, any interruption in the operation of our Internet websites could cause us to lose sales due to the inability of customers to purchase merchandise from us through our websites during such interruption.. 19. From time to time, we improve and upgrade our IT Systems and the functionality of our Internet websites. For example, we completed the implementation of a new planning and allocation tool and we re-platformed our retail websites from a customized in-house system to a SaaS platform. If we are unable to maintain and upgrade our systems, to integrate new and updated systems, or to successfully re-platform our Internet websites in an efficient and timely manner, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. Failure to improve and adapt our inventory management practices to evolving business needs could adversely affect our business.. We design and contract the manufacture of over 90% of the merchandise we sell using factories located throughout the world, predominantly outside of the United States. Fluctuations in the maternity apparel retail market impact the levels of inventory we hold, as merchandise is typically ordered from our contract manufacturers well in advance of the applicable selling season and frequently before fashion trends are confirmed by customer purchases. In addition, the nature of the retail maternity apparel business requires us to carry a significant amount of inventory. As a result, we are vulnerable to demand and pricing shifts and to suboptimal selection and timing of merchandise purchases. In the past, we have not always predicted our customers' preferences and acceptance levels of our merchandise with accuracy. If sales do not meet expectations, too much inventory may cause excessive markdowns and, therefore, lower than planned margins.. Our current strategic initiatives (which include further expansion of our ecommerce business, increasing the connectivity between our ecommerce business and our brick-and-mortar stores, and our expansion of our wholesale business) further emphasize the importance of increasing the efficiency and responsiveness of our supply chain. These initiatives will challenge our systems and operational approach. If we are unable to adopt our supply chain to meet the demands of these initiatives successfully our operating results could be materially adversely affected.. As an apparel retailer, we rely on numerous third parties in the supply chain to produce and deliver the products that we sell, and our business may be negatively impacted by disruptions in the supply chain.. If we lose the services of one or more of our significant suppliers or one or more of them fail to meet our product needs, we may be unable to obtain replacement merchandise in a timely manner. If our existing suppliers cannot meet our increased needs and we cannot locate alternative supply sources, we may be unable to obtain sufficient quantities of the most popular items at attractive prices, which could negatively impact our sales and results of operations. We obtain apparel and other merchandise from foreign sources, both purchased directly in foreign markets and indirectly through domestic vendors with foreign sources. To the extent that any of our vendors are located overseas or rely on overseas sources for a large portion of their products, any event causing a disruption of imports, including the imposition of import restrictions, could harm our ability to source product. This disruption could materially limit the merchandise that we would have available for sale and reduce our sales and earnings. The flow of merchandise from our vendors could also be materially and adversely affected by financial or political instability, or war, in or affecting any of the countries in which the goods we purchase are manufactured or through which they flow. Trade restrictions in the form of tariffs or quotas, embargoes and customs restrictions that are applicable to the products that we sell also could affect the import of those products and could increase the cost and reduce the supply of products available to us. Any material increase in tariff levels, or any material decrease in quota levels or available quota allocation, could negatively impact our business. Further, changes in tariffs or quotas for merchandise imported from individual foreign countries could lead us to shift our sources of supply among various countries. Any such shift we undertake in the future could result in a disruption of our sources of supply and/or an increase in product costs, and lead to a reduction in our sales and earnings. Supply chain security initiatives undertaken by the United States government that impede the normal flow of product could also negatively impact our business. In addition, decreases in the value of the United States dollar against foreign currencies could increase the cost of products that we purchase from overseas vendors.. We also face a variety of other risks generally associated with relying on vendors that do business in foreign markets and import merchandise from abroad, such as:. •  political instability or the threat of terrorism, particularly in countries where our vendors source merchandise;. •  enhanced security measures at United States and foreign ports, which could delay delivery of imports;. •  imposition of new or supplemental duties, taxes and other charges on imports;. •  delayed receipt or non-delivery of goods due to the failure of foreign-source suppliers to comply with applicable import regulations;. •  delayed receipt or non-delivery of goods due to organized labor strikes or unexpected or significant port congestion at United States ports; and. •  local business practice and political issues, including issues relating to compliance with domestic or international labor standards, which may result in adverse publicity.. 20. The United States may impose new initiatives that adversely affect the trading status of countries where apparel is manufactured. These initiatives may include retaliatory duties or other trade sanctions that, if enacted, would increase the cost of products imported from countries where our vendors acquire merchandise. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. We could be materially and adversely affected if our distribution operations are disrupted.. To support our distribution of product throughout the world, we currently operate a distribution facility in Florence, New Jersey. Finished garments from contractors and other manufacturers are inspected and stored in our distribution facility. We do not have other distribution facilities to support our distribution needs. If our distribution facility were to shut down or otherwise become inoperable or inaccessible for any reason (such as due to natural disasters, like Hurricane Sandy, which affected our region in early fiscal 2013), we could incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with the distribution of our products to our stores and to our third-party retailers during the time it takes to reopen or replace this facility. In light of our strategic emphasis on rapid replenishment as a competitive strength, a distribution disruption might have a disproportionately adverse effect on our operations and profitability relative to other retailers. In addition, the loss or material disruption of service from any of our shippers for any reason, whether due to freight difficulties, strikes, natural disaster or other difficulties at our principal transport providers or otherwise, could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations.. We could be materially and adversely affected if we are unable to obtain sufficient raw materials or maintain satisfactory manufacturing arrangements.. We do not own any manufacturing facilities and therefore depend on third parties to manufacture our products. We place our orders for production of merchandise and raw materials by purchase order and do not have any long-term contracts with any manufacturer or supplier. We compete with many other companies, many of which are larger and have substantially greater financial and other resources than us, for production facilities and raw materials. Furthermore, we have received in the past, and may receive in the future, shipments of products from manufacturers that fail to conform to our quality control standards or environmental standards. In such event, unless we are able to obtain replacement products in a timely manner, we may lose sales. We have no ability to control the environmental compliance (including compliance with climate change requirements) of these third-party manufacturers. If we fail to maintain favorable relationships with these third parties, or if we cannot obtain an adequate supply of quality raw materials on commercially reasonable terms, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Fluctuations in commodity prices could result in an increase in component costs, delivery costs and overall product costs.. The results of our business operations could suffer due to significant increases or volatility in the prices of certain commodities, including but not limited to cotton, wool and other ingredients used in the production of fabric and accessories, as well as fuel, oil and natural gas. In addition, increases in the price of food and food commodities may result in increased labor rates related to textile and apparel production. Increases in prices of these commodities or other inflationary pressures may result in significant cost increases for our raw materials, product components and finished products, as well as increases in the cost of distributing merchandise to our retail locations and shipping products to our customers. For example, in the latter part of fiscal 2011 and for most of fiscal 2012, we experienced product cost of sales increases due, in part, to the increased cost of cotton as well as, to a lesser extent, increased labor rates in certain production countries. To the extent we are unable to offset any such increased costs through value engineering and similar initiatives, or through price increases, our profitability, cash flows and financial condition may be materially and adversely impacted. If we choose to increase prices to offset the increased costs, our unit sales volumes could be adversely impacted.. 21. Our quarterly operating results and inventory levels may fluctuate significantly as a result of seasonality in our business.. Our business, like that of other retailers, is seasonal. Results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for a full fiscal year. Quarterly results may fluctuate materially depending upon, among other things, increases or decreases in comparable sales, the timing of new retail location openings, the timing of retail location closings, net sales and profitability contributed by new retail locations, the timing of the fulfillment of purchase orders under our product, license brand and international business arrangements, adverse weather conditions, shifts in the timing of certain holidays and promotions, changes in inventory and production levels and the timing of deliveries of inventory, and changes in our merchandise mix. Our quarterly net sales were historically highest in the peak Spring selling season during our third fiscal quarter that previously ended on June 30 of our fiscal years that ended on September 30. Under our new 4-5-4 retail fiscal calendar ending on the Saturday nearest January 31, of each year, the peak Spring selling season will generally occur during our new first and second fiscal quarters. Given the historically higher sales level in that timeframe and the relatively fixed nature of most of our operating expenses, we have typically generated a very significant percentage of our full year operating income and net income during the calendar months of March through May. Thus, any factors which result in a material reduction of our sales during the first and second fiscal quarters could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for our fiscal year as a whole. Seasonal fluctuations in sales also affect our inventory levels, as we usually order merchandise in advance of peak selling periods and sometimes before new fashion trends are confirmed by customer purchases. We must carry a significant amount of inventory, especially before the peak Spring selling season. If we are not successful in selling our inventory during this period, we may be forced to rely on markdowns or promotional sales to sell the excess inventory or we may not be able to sell the inventory at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in regulatory and statutory laws, such as increases in the minimum wage, proposed changes to overtime requirements, and new health care laws, and the costs of compliance and non-compliance with such laws, may result in increased costs to our business.. Labor is a primary component in the cost of operating our business.  Increased labor costs, whether due to competition, unionization, increased minimum wage, overtime requirements, state unemployment rates, employee benefits costs, employment taxes, or otherwise, may adversely impact our operating expenses. A considerable amount of our store team members are paid at rates related to the federal or state minimum wage and any changes to the minimum wage rate may increase our operating expenses.  A number of states and cities in which we do business have recently increased or are considering increasing the minimum wage, with increases generally phased over several years depending upon the size of the employer. We are subject to the Fair Labor Standards Act, which governs such matters as minimum wages, overtime and other working conditions, along with the ADA, family leave mandates and a variety of other laws enacted by the states that govern these and other employment law matters. The Department of Labor is also proposing changes to the technical requirements for classification of employees deemed to be exempt from the overtime requirements of the Fair Labor Standards Act that could increase the number of employees eligible to receive overtime pay. Increases in minimum wages and overtime pay could significantly increase our costs, and our ability to offset these increases through price increases is limited. Changes in labor laws could also increase the likelihood of some or all of our employees being subjected to greater organized labor influence. If a significant portion of our employees were to become unionized, it could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results.. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the \"ACA\") requires employers such as us to provide health insurance for all qualifying employees or pay penalties for not providing coverage. These costs were incurred beginning in fiscal 2016; however, there is no assurance that we will be able to absorb and/or pass through the costs of future heath care legislation in a manner that will not adversely impact our results or operations. Additionally, there are ongoing efforts to modify or eliminate the ACA. It is unknown what form any such modifications or any law proposed to replace the ACA would take, and how or whether it may affect our business in the future.. In addition to employment laws, we are also subject to a wide range of federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations, including those affecting public companies, product manufacture and sale, and employment matters in the jurisdictions in which we operate, as well as foreign laws and regulations governing our franchisor-franchisee relationships. Compliance with new, complex and changing laws may cause our expenses to increase. In addition, any non-compliance with laws or regulations could result in penalties, fines, product recalls and enforcement actions or otherwise restrict our ability to market certain products or attract or retain employees, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 22. If an independent contract manufacturer violates labor or other laws, or is accused of violating any such laws, or if their labor practices diverge from those generally accepted as ethical, it could harm our business and brand image.. While we maintain policies and guidelines with respect to labor practices that independent manufacturers that produce goods for us are contractually required to follow, and while we have an independent firm and Company employees inspect certain manufacturing sites to monitor compliance, we cannot control the actions of such manufacturers or the public's perceptions of them, nor can we assure that these manufacturers will conduct their businesses using ethical or legal labor practices. Apparel companies can be held jointly liable for the wrongdoings of the manufacturers of their products. While many of our independent manufacturers are routinely monitored by buying representatives, who assist us in the areas of compliance, garment quality and delivery, we do not control the manufacturers' business practices or their employees' employment conditions, and manufacturers act in their own interest which may be in a manner that results in negative public perceptions of us, and/or employee allegations against us, or court determinations that we are jointly liable. Violations of law by our importers, buying agents, independent manufacturers or distributors could result in delays in shipments and receipt of goods and could subject us to fines or other penalties, any of which could restrict our business activities, increase our operating expenses or cause our sales to decline.. We may be unable to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property and may be subject to liability if we are alleged to have infringed on another party's intellectual property.. We believe that our trademarks, service marks and other intellectual property are important to our continued success and our competitive position due to their recognition with our customers. We devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our trademarks, service marks and other intellectual property. Although we actively protect our intellectual property, there can be no assurance that the actions that we have taken to establish and protect our trademarks, service marks and other intellectual property, including our rights in our IT Systems and our proprietary rights in products for which we have applied for or received patent protection will be adequate to prevent imitation of our marks, products or services by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as a violation of their trademarks, service marks or other proprietary rights. Also, others may assert rights in, or ownership of, our trademarks and other proprietary rights or may allege that we have or are infringing on their intellectual property rights and we may not be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our trademarks and proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. We cannot assure that these registrations will prevent imitation of our name, merchandising concept, store design or private label merchandise, or the infringement of our other intellectual property rights by others. Imitation of our name, merchandising concept, store design or private label merchandise in a manner that projects lesser quality or carries a negative connotation of our brand image could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, the high expense in both prosecuting and defending against, and potential liability related to, alleged infringements of intellectual property rights could be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. A cybersecurity incident could have a negative impact on our business and results of operations.. A cyber-attack may bypass the security for our IT Systems causing an IT System security breach and lead to a material disruption of our IT Systems and/or the loss of business information and/or Internet sales. Such a cyber-attack could result in any of the following:. •  theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation or release of confidential data or intellectual property;. •  operational or business delays resulting from the disruption of IT Systems and subsequent clean-up and mitigation activities;. •  negative publicity resulting in reputation or brand damage with our customers, partners or industry peers; and. •  loss of sales generated through our Internet websites through which we sell merchandise to customers, to the extent these websites are affected by a cyber-attack.. As a result, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. 23. If climate change laws or regulations were to become applicable to our business, or if any third party with whom we have a leased department or international business relationship imposed reporting or other obligations on us due to their own compliance programs, we could incur additional expense to meet the requirements and our failure to comply could have a material adverse effect on our business.. With respect to manufacturing within the United States, United States Environmental Protection Agency (\"EPA\") greenhouse gas (\"GHG\") emission reporting rules require certain United States manufacturers to report GHG emissions. These rules are unlikely to require reporting of our third-party contract apparel manufacturers because the amount of emissions from retail stores and apparel manufacturing facilities are currently estimated to be below the EPA reporting threshold. With respect to manufacturing outside of the United States, international treaties, such as the Kyoto Protocol and the Copenhagen Protocol, do not currently require the countries in which our non-United States contract apparel manufacturers are located to control GHG emissions and it is unlikely that climate change requirements in the foreseeable future will require significant GHG emission reductions on our non-United States contract apparel manufacturers. Our manufacturers are required to follow all applicable laws, including climate change laws. If domestic or international laws or regulations were expanded to require GHG emission reporting or reduction by us or our third-party contract apparel manufacturers, or if we engage third-party contract manufacturers in countries that have existing GHG emission reporting or reduction laws or regulations, we would need to expend financial and other resources to comply with such regulations and/or monitor our third-party contract apparel manufacturers' compliance with such regulations. In addition, we cannot control the actions of our third-party manufacturers or the public's perceptions of them, nor can we assure that these manufacturers will conduct their businesses using climate change proactive or sustainable practices. Violations of climate change laws or regulations by third parties with whom we do business could result in negative public perception of us and/or delays in shipments and receipt of goods, and could subject us to fines or other penalties, any of which could restrict our business activities, increase our operating expenses or cause our sales to decline.. Some retailers have adopted \"sustainability\" or other policies that encourage or require suppliers to report and/or reduce GHG emissions. No third party with whom we have a leased department, licensed brand or international franchise relationship currently requires us to report GHG emissions to them. However, we expect that certain of these third parties may do so in the future, which would require us to expend financial and other resources to comply with such requirements. In addition, if such requirements are imposed on us, our relationship with such third parties could be damaged if we were unable to comply.. War, acts of terrorism or other types of mall violence or the threat of any such hostilities may negatively impact availability of merchandise and otherwise adversely impact our business.. Most of our stores are located in shopping malls. Any threat of terrorist attacks or actual terrorist events, or other types of mall violence, such as shootings in malls, particularly in public areas, could lead to lower customer traffic in shopping malls. In addition, our ability to obtain merchandise available for sale and consumer demand for our merchandise may be negatively affected. Local authorities or mall management could close shopping malls in response to security concerns. Mall closures, as well as lower customer traffic due to security concerns, could result in decreased sales. Additionally, the armed conflicts and civil unrest in the Middle East, or the threat, escalation or commencement of war or other armed conflict elsewhere, could significantly diminish consumer spending, and result in decreased sales for us. Decreased sales could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. A substantial portion of our merchandise is imported from other countries. In addition, we not only generate sales in the United States and Canada through our own retail locations, but also in foreign countries through our leased department or international franchise relationships. If goods become difficult or impossible to import into the United States, and if we cannot obtain such merchandise from other sources at similar costs, our sales and profit margins may be materially and adversely affected. Further, if consumer demand in any country where we do business is negatively affected, our sales in such country would suffer. In the event that commercial transportation is curtailed or substantially delayed, our business may be materially and adversely impacted, as we may have difficulty shipping merchandise to our main distribution facility, retail locations, and international business partners, as well as fulfilling Internet orders.. Our charter documents contain certain anti-takeover provisions, and we are entitled to certain other protective provisions under Delaware law.. We are a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of the Company, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition involving us that our stockholders may consider favorable by, among other things:. •  authorizing the issuance of preferred stock, the terms of which may be determined at the discretion of our Board of Directors;. •  restricting the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; and. •  establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at meetings.. 24. These provisions may also reduce the market value of our common stock.. We have been and may continue to be the subject of actions taken by so-called \"activist\" stockholders, which may cause us to incur substantial costs which could harm our business and which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. We have been and may continue to be the subject of actions taken by so-called \"activist\" stockholders. Future actions may include, but are not limited to, making public demands that we consider certain strategic alternatives for the Company, engaging in public campaigns to attempt to influence our corporate governance and/or our management, and commencing proxy contests to attempt to elect the activists' representatives or others to our Board of Directors. Responding to actions by activist stockholders can be costly and time-consuming, disrupting our operations and diverting the attention of management and our employees. Such actions may materially harm our relationships with current and potential customers, current and potential stockholders, current and potential lenders, and others, may otherwise materially harm our business, and may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. In addition, the perceived uncertainties as to our future direction also could affect the market price and volatility of our securities.. The increase in our sales and marketing efforts that target markets outside the United States and Canada expose us to additional risks associated with international operations.. Although an immaterial amount of our sales are currently derived from international sales outside of Canada, we have franchise arrangements in the Middle East, South Korea, Mexico, Israel and India. International operations and sales subject us to risks and challenges that we would otherwise not face if we conducted our business only in the United States. For example, we may depend on third parties to market our products through foreign sales channels, and we may be challenged by laws and business practices favoring local competitors. In addition, our ability to succeed in foreign markets will depend on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We must also adapt our pricing structure to address different pricing environments and may face difficulty in enforcing revenue collection internationally. To the extent emerging markets are a part of our international growth strategy, the developing nature of these markets presents a number of risks. Deterioration of social, political, labor or economic conditions in a specific country or region and difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations may also materially and adversely affect our operations or financial results or those of our franchisees. Operations outside the United States may be affected by changes in trade protection laws, policies and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments. To the extent we achieve significant sales outside of the United States in the future, we may have significant exposure to fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates.. Although our initial international strategy has consisted primarily of franchising, licensing or similar arrangements with foreign partners, for certain markets we may consider direct investment in international operations, such as by entering into joint ventures or developing our own operations in certain countries.  This approach will expose us to the risks identified above with respect to franchising as well as to the risk of loss of our direct investment (such as, for example, loss on investments made through capital contributions in a joint venture, and/or in connection with capital expenditures to develop our own operations in certain countries).  Further, the risk of direct investment in a joint venture in which we are a minority owner presents the unique risk of having a significant investment in a business that is controlled by, and effectively operated by, an unrelated third party.. We could have failures in our system of internal controls causing us to inaccurately report our financial results or to fail to prevent fraud.. We maintain a documented system of internal controls which is reviewed and monitored by management, who meet regularly with our Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. We believe we have a well-designed system to maintain adequate internal controls over the business. We cannot assure you that there will not be any control deficiencies in the future. Should we become aware of any significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, we would report them to the Audit Committee and recommend prompt remediation. We devote significant resources to document, test, monitor and improve our internal controls and will continue to do so; however, we cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that our controls are adequate in the future or that adequate controls will be effective in preventing fraud. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. Any failures in the effectiveness of our internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or operating results or cause us to fail to meet reporting obligations."
