[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and in the other documents we file with the SEC, are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Prospective and existing investors are strongly urged to carefully consider the various cautionary statements and risks set forth in this annual report and our other public filings.. We have a history of losses and may incur losses in the future.. We incurred net losses of approximately $9.9 million and $9.4 million for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. We had an accumulated deficit of approximately $321.7 million as of March 31, 2018. We may continue to incur losses in the future for a number of reasons, including uncertainty as to the level of our future revenues and the timing and impact of our cost reduction efforts. While we have made significant progress towards aligning our research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses with revenue, given the size of our business relative to the costs associated with being a public reporting company, we will need to continue to control our expenses while maintaining and increasing revenue in order to achieve profitability. If our revenue declines or grows more slowly than we currently anticipate or our operating expenses exceed our expectations, our losses may continue or increase, which would harm our business and operating results.. Our business could be seriously harmed if we lose the services of our key personnel.. Our success depends substantially on the contributions and abilities of our executive management team and other key employees. We believe that these individuals understand our operational strategies and priorities and the steps necessary to drive our long-term growth and stockholder value. The loss of services of one or more members of our management team or other key personnel could disrupt our operations and seriously harm our business.. We have relied and expect to continue to rely on orders from a relatively small number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenues, and the loss of any of these customers would significantly harm our business and operating results.. Our revenues are dependent on orders from a relatively small number of customers. No customer was over 10% of our revenue in fiscal year 2018 or 2017. We expect that we will continue to depend upon a relatively small number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. As a result, if we fail to successfully sell our products and services to one or more large customers in any particular period or a large customer purchases fewer of our products or services, defers or cancels orders, or terminates its relationship with us, our business and operating results would be significantly harmed.. If we are unable to attract new customers, the growth of our revenues will be adversely affected.. To increase our revenues, we must continue to add new customers, increase the number of users for existing customers, and sell additional modules to current customers. As our industry matures or if competitors introduce lower cost and/or differentiated products or services that are perceived to compete with ours, our ability to sell based on factors such as pricing, technology, and functionality could be impaired. As a result, we may be unable to attract new customers at rates or terms that would be favorable or comparable to prior periods, which could have an adverse effect on the growth of our revenues.. Our annual and quarterly revenues and operating results are inherently unpredictable and subject to fluctuations, and as a result, we may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could cause volatility or adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.. The Company generates revenue by providing its Software-as-a-Service (“SaaS”) solutions through subscription license arrangements and related professional services, as well as through perpetual and term licenses and related software maintenance and professional services. The Company recognizes revenue in accordance with generally accepted accounting standards for software and service companies. The Company recognizes revenue when (1) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, (2) delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, (3) fees are fixed or determinable and (4) collectability is reasonably assured. If we determine that any one of the four criteria is not met, we will defer recognition of revenue until all the criteria are met.. Our annual and quarterly recurring and non-recurring revenues may fluctuate due to our inability to perform services, achieve specific milestones and obtain formal customer acceptance of specific elements of the overall completion of a project. As we provide such services and products, the timing of delivery and acceptance, changed conditions with the customers and projects could result in changes to the timing of our revenue recognition, and thus, our operating results.. Likewise, if our customers do not renew subscription agreements or maintenance services or purchase additional products, our operating results could suffer. Historically, we have derived and expect to continue to derive a significant portion of our total revenue from existing customers who purchase additional products or renew subscription licenses and maintenance agreements. Our customers may not renew such maintenance agreements or expand the use of our products. In addition, as we introduce new products, our current customers may not require or desire the features of our new products. If our customers do not renew their subscriptions or maintenance agreements with us or choose not to purchase additional products, our operating results could suffer.. 8. Because we rely on a limited number of customers, the timing of customer acceptance or milestone achievement, the amount of services we provide to a single customer, or the failure to replace a significant customer can significantly affect our operating results. Because expenses are relatively fixed in the near term, any shortfall from anticipated revenues could cause our quarterly operating results to fall below anticipated levels.. We may also experience seasonality in revenues. For example, our annual and quarterly results may fluctuate based upon our customers’ calendar year budgeting cycles. These seasonal variations may lead to fluctuations in our annual and quarterly revenues and operating results.. Based upon the foregoing, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and that such comparisons should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. In some future period, our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which could cause volatility or a decline in the price of our common stock.. Our future success depends on our proprietary intellectual property, and if we are unable to protect our intellectual property from potential competitors, our business may be significantly harmed.. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright law and contractual restrictions to protect the proprietary aspects of our technology. These legal protections afford only limited protection for our technology. We currently hold eight patents in the United States. In addition, we have various trademarks registered or pending registration in various jurisdictions. Our trademark applications might not result in the issuance of any trademarks. Our patents or any trademarks might be invalidated or circumvented or otherwise fail to provide us any meaningful protection. We seek to protect the source code for our software, documentation and other written materials under trade secret and copyright laws. We license our software pursuant to license agreements, which impose certain restrictions on the licensee’s ability to utilize the software. We also seek to avoid disclosure of our intellectual property by requiring employees and consultants with access to our proprietary information to execute confidentiality agreements. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. In addition, the laws of many countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets and to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Our failure to adequately protect our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results.. It is possible that in the future, other third parties may claim that our current or potential future products infringe their intellectual property rights. Any claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, divert management’s time from developing our business, cause product shipment delays, require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements or require us to satisfy indemnification obligations to our customers. Royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all, which could seriously harm our business.. Our lengthy sales cycle for our products makes it difficult for us to forecast revenue and exacerbates the variability of quarterly fluctuations, which could cause our stock price to decline.. The sales cycle of our products has historically averaged between nine to twelve months and may sometimes be significantly longer. We are generally required to provide a significant level of education regarding the use and benefits of our products, and potential customers tend to engage in extensive internal reviews before making purchase decisions. In addition, the purchase of our products typically involves a significant commitment by our customers of capital and other resources and is therefore subject to delays that are beyond our control, such as customers’ internal budgetary procedures and the testing and acceptance of new technologies that affect key operations. In addition, because we target large companies, our sales cycle can be lengthier due to the decision process in large organizations. As a result of our products’ long sales cycles, we face difficulty predicting the quarter in which sales to expected customers may occur. If anticipated sales from a specific customer for a particular quarter are not realized in that quarter, our operating results for that quarter could fall below the expectations of financial analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to decline.. Developments in the market for cloud-based software solutions, including our Source-to-Pay, Procure-to-Pay and Enterprise Contract Lifecycle Management (“ECLM”), may harm our operating results, which could cause a decline in the price of our common stock.. The market for cloud-based software solutions, including Source-to-Pay, Procure-to-Pay and ECLM, is evolving rapidly. In view of changing market trends, including vendor consolidation, the competitive environment growth rate and potential size of the market are difficult to assess. The growth of the market is dependent upon the willingness of businesses and consumers to purchase complex goods and services over the Internet and the acceptance of the Internet as a platform for business applications. In addition, companies that have already invested substantial resources in other methods of Internet selling may be reluctant or slow to adopt a new approach or application that may replace, limit or compete with their existing systems. With the transition of our focus to a subscription sales SaaS model, which may help address certain market challenges, the rapid change in the marketplace nonetheless poses a number of concerns. Any decrease in technology infrastructure spending may reduce the size of the market for our solutions. Our potential customers may decide to purchase more complete solutions offered by larger competitors instead of individual applications. If the market for our solutions is slow to develop, or if our customers purchase more fully integrated products, our business and operating results would be significantly harmed.. 9. We face intense competition, which could reduce our sales, prevent us from achieving or maintaining profitability and inhibit our future growth.. The market for similar software and services is intensely competitive and rapidly changing. We expect competition to persist and intensify, which could result in price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share. Our principal competition comes from (i) publicly held and private software companies that offer integrated Source-to-Pay solutions or specific sourcing, procurement, payables, contract management and/or sales solutions and (ii) internally developed solutions. Existing and potential competitors include companies such as SAP (Ariba), Apttus, Coupa and Ivalua.. Our competitors may intensify their efforts in our market. In addition, other enterprise software and SaaS companies may offer competitive products in the future. Competitors vary in size, in the scope and breadth of the products and services offered. Although we believe we have advantages over our competitors including the comprehensiveness of our solution, some of our competitors and potential competitors have significant advantages over us, including:. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ta longer operating history;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpreferred vendor status with our customers;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmore extensive name recognition and marketing power; and. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsignificantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources, giving them the ability to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities, technologies, and customer requirements.. Our competitors may also bundle their products in a manner that may discourage users from purchasing our products. Current and potential competitors may establish cooperative relationships with each other or with third parties or adopt aggressive pricing policies to gain market share. Competitive pressures may require us to reduce the prices of our products and services. We may not be able to maintain or expand our sales if competition increases, and we are unable to respond effectively.. If we do not keep pace with technological change, including maintaining interoperability of our products with the software and hardware platforms predominantly used by our customers, our products may be rendered obsolete, and our business may fail.. Our industry is characterized by rapid technological change, changes in customer requirements, frequent new product and service introductions and enhancements, and emerging industry standards. In order to achieve broad customer acceptance, our products must be compatible with major software and hardware platforms used by our customers. In addition, our products are required to interoperate with electronic commerce applications and databases. We must continually modify and enhance our products to keep pace with changes in these operating systems, applications and databases. Our Source-to-Pay, ECLM and Configuration products are complex, and new products and product enhancements can require long development and testing periods. If our products were to be incompatible with a popular new operating system, electronic commerce application or database, our business would be significantly harmed. In addition, the development of entirely new technologies to replace existing software could lead to new competitive products that have better performance or lower prices than our products and could render our products obsolete and unmarketable.. Our failure to meet customer expectations on deployment of our products could result in negative publicity and reduced sales, both of which would significantly harm our business and operating results.. In the past, a small number of our customers have experienced difficulties or delays in completing implementation of our products. We may experience similar difficulties or delays in the future. Deploying our products typically involves integration with our customers’ legacy systems, such as existing databases and enterprise resource planning software as well adding their data to the system. Failing to meet customer expectations on deployment of our products could result in a loss of customers and negative publicity regarding us and our products, which could adversely affect our ability to attract new customers. In addition, time-consuming deployments may also increase the amount of service personnel we must allocate to each customer, thereby increasing our costs and adversely affecting our business and operating results.. If we are unable to maintain our direct sales force, sales of our products and services may not meet our expectations, and our business and operating results will be significantly harmed.. We depend on our direct sales force for a significant portion of our current sales, and our future growth depends in part on the ability of our direct sales force to develop customer relationships and increase sales to a level that will allow us to reach and maintain profitability. If we are unable to retain qualified sales personnel or if newly hired personnel fail to develop the necessary skills or to reach productivity when anticipated, we may not be able to increase sales of our products and services, and our results of operations could be significantly harmed.. If we are unable to successfully manage our professional services organization, we will be unable to provide our customers with technical support for our products, which could significantly harm our business and operating results.. Non-recurring revenues are mainly comprised of revenues from professional services for system implementations and enhancements and training. Professional services generated 22% and 24% of our total revenues during the fiscal years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Our professional services revenues have been responsible for a larger portion of losses than recurring revenues. We often charge for our professional services on a fixed-fee basis. If we are required to spend more hours than planned without being able to bill our customers for these overages, our cost of services revenues could exceed the fees charged to our customers on certain engagements and could cause us to recognize a loss on a contract, which would adversely affect our operating results. In addition, if we are unable to provide these professional services, we may lose sales or incur customer dissatisfaction, and our business and operating results could be significantly harmed.. 10. If new versions and releases of our products contain errors or defects, we could suffer losses and negative publicity, which would adversely affect our business and operating results.. Complex software products such as ours may contain errors or defects, including errors relating to security, particularly when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. In the past, we have discovered defects in our products and provided product updates to our customers to address such defects. Our products and other future products may contain defects or errors that could result in lost revenues, a delay in market acceptance or negative publicity, each of which would significantly harm our business and operating results.. Demand for our products and services will decline significantly if our software cannot support and manage a substantial number of users.. Our strategy requires that our products be highly scalable. To date, only a limited number of our customers have deployed our products on a large scale. If our customers cannot successfully implement large-scale deployments, or if they determine that we cannot accommodate large-scale deployments, our business and operating results would be significantly harmed.. If we become subject to litigation, it could be costly and time consuming to defend and could distract us from focusing on our business and operations.. Since our software applications are company-wide, mission-critical computer applications with a potentially strong impact on our procurement, payables, contracting and customers’ sales, errors, defects or other performance problems could result in financial or other damages to our customers. Although our license agreements generally contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to liability claims, existing or future laws or unfavorable judicial decisions could negate such limitation of liability provisions. Litigation, even if it were unsuccessful, would be time consuming and costly to defend.. Our results of operations will be reduced by charges associated with stock-based compensation.. We have in the past and expect in the future to incur a significant amount of charges related to securities issuances, which will negatively affect our operating results. We use the Black-Scholes-Merton option pricing model to determine the fair value of our share-based payments and recognize compensation cost on a straight-line basis over the vesting periods. This pronouncement from the FASB provides for certain changes to the method for valuing stock-based compensation. Among other changes, ASC 718 applies to new awards and to awards that are outstanding which are subsequently modified or cancelled. Compensation expense calculated under ASC 718 will continue to negatively impact our operating results.. The majority of our customers are hosted by a third-party providers.. The majority of our customers’ licensed software applications are hosted by a third-party data center provider under contract to us. Failure of a data center provider to maintain service levels as contracted or required by law, rule, or regulation could result in customer dissatisfaction, customer losses and potential product warranty or performance liabilities and potential regulatory penalties, including significant fines.. Anti-takeover defenses that we have in place could prevent or frustrate attempts by stockholders to change our board of directors or the direction of our company.. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, as amended to date, our amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law may make it more difficult for or prevent a third party from acquiring control of us without approval of our directors. These provisions include:. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trequiring a majority vote in uncontested elections of directors; \t\t\t \t\t  \t\t\t \t\t\t• \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trestricting the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; \t\t\t \t\t  \t\t\t \t\t\t• \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tprohibiting stockholder action by written consent; \t\t\t \t\t  \t\t\t \t\t\t• \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\testablishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and \t\t\t \t\t  \t\t\t \t\t\t• \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tgranting our board of directors the ability to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval.. These provisions may have the effect of entrenching our board of directors and may deprive or limit your strategic opportunities to sell your shares.. 11. Restrictions on export of encrypted technology could cause us to incur delays in international product sales, which would adversely impact the expansion and growth of our business.. Our software utilizes encryption technology, the export of which is regulated by the United States government. If our export authority is revoked or modified, if our software is unlawfully exported or if the United States adopts new legislation restricting export of software and encryption technology, we may experience delay or reduction in the sale of our software and services internationally. Current or future export regulations could limit our ability to distribute our offerings outside of the United States which would have a negative impact on our operating results as we rely materially on other jurisdictions. While we take precautions against unlawful exportation of our software, we cannot effectively control the unauthorized distribution of software across the Internet.. Unauthorized break-ins or other assaults on our computer systems could harm our business.. Our servers are vulnerable to physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions, which could lead to loss of data or public release of proprietary information. In addition, unauthorized persons may improperly access our data. These and other types of attacks could harm us. Actions of this sort may be very expensive to remedy, result in significant regulatory fines and could adversely affect our results of operations.. Increasing government regulation of the Internet could limit the market for our products and services, or impose greater tax burdens on us or liability for transmission of protected data.. As SaaS, electronic commerce and the Internet continue to evolve, federal, state and foreign governments may adopt laws and regulations covering issues such as user privacy, taxation of goods and services provided over the Internet, pricing, content and quality of products and services. If enacted, these laws and regulations could limit the market for our products and services. Although many of these regulations may not apply directly to our business, we expect that laws regulating the solicitation, collection or processing of personal or consumer information could indirectly affect our business and regulations such as the General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”) (EU) 2016/679 will impact our business. Any failure to comply with GDPR or other laws, rules or regulations related to the handling of personal or sensitive information could result in significant penalties and fines and adversely affect our results of operations.. We may not be able to secure additional financing on favorable terms, or at all, to meet our future capital needs.. We have funded our operations since inception primarily through equity and debt financings and payments by customers. We do not know when or if our operations will generate sufficient cash to fund our ongoing operations. Our existing credit facility is a material source of funding for our operations and it currently has a maturity date of April 20, 2019. It is a condition of our existing credit facility that we maintain certain guarantees from Lloyd I. Miller, III (“Mr. Miller”, as succeeded by the estate of Lloyd I. Miller, III after his death ( Miller”)), the company’s largest stockholder, and its affiliates. The current guaranties are in effect through April 30, 2019. The guaranties also provide that if the maturity date of our existing credit facility is subsequently amended, the guaranties would automatically extend for a period covering through the extended maturity date under our current credit facility, but no later than July 30, 2020. There is no guarantee our current credit facility will be extended and we may not have access to credit facilities if we are not able to maintain guaranties, for which there is no assurance.. In the future, we may require additional capital to respond to business opportunities, challenges, acquisitions, a decline in the level of customer prepayments or unforeseen circumstances and may determine to engage in equity or debt financings or enter into credit facilities for other reasons, and we may not be able to timely secure additional debt or equity financing on favorable terms, or at all. If guaranties are required, we may not be able to timely secure them and/or they may require additional costs to the company. Any debt financing obtained by us in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity, convertible debt securities or other securities convertible into equity, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution in their percentage ownership of our company, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us when we require it, our ability to continue to grow or support our business and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited.. Following Mr. Miller’s death, Neil S. Subin (“Mr. Subin”) filed a Schedule 13D related to the positions reported on a Schedule 13D filed by Mr. Miller on December 1, 2009, as subsequently amended. Mr. Subin’s principal occupation is investing assets held, among others, by or on behalf of certain entities owned by or for the estate of the late Mr. Miller. If Mr. Subin pursues a different investment strategy than Mr. Miller, our ability to continue to work with our majority shareholder to grow or support our business and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited.. 12. We are subject to international business uncertainties that could harm our business and results of operations or slow our growth.. Our ability to grow our business and our future success will depend in part on our ability to expand our operations and customer base worldwide. During fiscal 2011, we entered into a relationship with a third party that opened a research and operations center in Odessa, Ukraine. The Ukraine has experienced considerable political events over the last number of years, and while we have put certain contingency plans in place to minimize any disruption, such turmoil may impact our operations and, in turn, could compromise our ability to develop our products at the pace and cost that we desire.. Risks Related to Ownership of Common Stock. Our stock price could decline because of recent financing activities or as a result of continued operating losses.. On March 11, 2015, the Company entered into a Junior Secured Convertible Note Purchase Agreement with Miller, MILFAM II L.P. and the Lloyd I. Miller Trust A-4, two affiliates of Miller (collectively the “Debt Investors”), pursuant to which the Company issued and sold junior secured convertible promissory notes to the Debt Investors in the aggregate principal amount of $3 million, which notes were amended on December 16, 2015 and December 27, 2016 (as amended, the “March 2015 Notes”). The March 2015 Notes are due on December 16, 2020. The Company has the option to pay any amounts of interest due under the March 2015 Notes by capitalizing, compounding and adding to the unpaid principal amount of the March 2015 Notes the amount of accrued interest, based upon an interest rate amount calculated at 10% per year, provided that the Company is not then under default under the March 2015 Notes or related financing agreements. The outstanding principal and interest under the March 2015 Notes may be converted into shares of Company common stock at the sole option of the Debt Investors at any time prior to the maturity date, at a conversion price of $5.70 per share (as may be adjusted for any subdivision by any stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization, reorganization, scheme, arrangement or similar event occurring prior to such record date).. On June 21, 2017, the Debt Investors elected to convert approximately $1.0 million of outstanding interest and principal payable under the March 2015 Notes into an aggregate of 170,733 shares of the Company’s common stock at the conversion price of $5.70 per share. To induce the Debt Investors to convert the March 2015 Notes, the Company entered into a subscription and investment representation agreement with the Debt Investors pursuant to which the Company issued an additional 218,540 shares of common stock to the Debt Investors.. On December 16, 2015, the Company entered into a Junior Secured Convertible Note Purchase Agreement with Miller and MILFAM II L.P., the Lloyd I. Miller Trust A-4 and Alimco Financial Corporation, a Delaware corporation formerly known as Alliance Semiconductor Corporation, each an affiliate of Miller (collectively the “Additional Debt Investors” and, together with the Debt Investors, the “Investors”), pursuant to which the Company issued and sold junior secured convertible promissory notes (the “December 2015 Notes”) to the Additional Debt Investors in the aggregate principal amount of $2.5 million, which notes were amended on December 27, 2016 (as amended, the “December 2015 Notes”). The December 2015 Notes are due on December 16, 2020. The Company has the option to pay any amounts of interest due under the December 2015 Notes by capitalizing, compounding and adding to the unpaid principal amount of the December 2015 Notes the amount of accrued interest, based upon an interest rate amount calculated at 10% per year, provided that the Company is not then under default under the December 2015 Notes or related financing agreements. The outstanding principal and interest under the December 2015 Notes may be converted into shares of Company common stock at the sole option of the Additional Debt Investors at any time prior to the maturity date, at a conversion price of $3.00 per share (as may be adjusted for any subdivision by any stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization, reorganization, scheme, arrangement or similar event occurring prior to such record date, and subject to adjustment in the event of certain private placements).. Further, on December 27, 2016, the Company entered into a Junior Secured Convertible Note Purchase agreement with certain of the Additional Debt Investors) pursuant to which the Company issued and sold junior secured convertible promissory notes (the “December 2016 Notes” and, together with the March 2015 Notes and the December 2015 Notes, the “Notes”) to such Additional Debt Investors in the aggregate principal amount of $2 million. The December 2016 Notes are due on December 27, 2021. The Company has the option to pay any amounts of interest due under the December 2016 Notes by capitalizing, compounding and adding to the unpaid principal amount of the December 2016 Notes the amount of accrued interest, based upon an interest rate amount calculated at 12% per year, provided that the Company is not then under default under the December 2016 Notes or related financing agreements. The outstanding principal and interest under the December 2016 Notes may be converted into shares of Company common stock at the sole option of the holders of such December 2016 Notes at any time prior to the maturity date, at a conversion price of $3.00 per share (as may be adjusted for any subdivision by any stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization, reorganization, scheme, arrangement or similar event occurring prior to such record date, and subject to adjustment in the event of certain private placements).. Additionally, in the event of a merger, consolidation, or sale of the Company or substantially all of its assets, the Notes may, at the election of the Investors, be either repaid in cash or converted into shares of Company common stock at the then-current conversion price for each such Note.. Assuming conversion in full of all obligations under the Notes at the end of the term, approximately an additional 3.0 million shares of common stock will be issued and outstanding, diluting our stockholders. Existing stockholders also will suffer significant dilution in ownership interests and voting rights and our stock price could decline as a result of potential future conversion of the Notes. Additionally, sales in the public market of the shares of common stock acquired upon conversion of the Notes, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise funds in additional stock financings. Any additional equity or convertible debt financings in the future could result in further dilution to our stockholders.. 13. The Investors have substantial voting power on matters submitted to a vote of stockholders.. Based on 15,049,700 shares of common stock outstanding as of March 31, 2018, the shares of common stock issued or issuable to the Investors upon conversion of the Notes would represent, in the aggregate, approximately 20% of the voting power of our stock.  Additionally, Miller, together with its affiliated entities, participated in the debt financings described above and, following Mr. Miller’s death, Mr. Subin is now the Company’s largest existing stockholder as a result thereof. Because the Investors own a significant percentage of our voting power, they may have considerable influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors and approval of mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets.. In addition, the ownership by the Investors of a substantial percentage of our total voting power could make it more difficult and expensive for a third party to pursue a change of control of the Company, even if a change of control would generally be beneficial to our stockholders."                                                                                                                             
