[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business and operations, and our industry in general, are subject to a variety of risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face, as our business and operations may also be subject to risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently believe are immaterial. If any of the following risks should occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity could be materially and adversely impacted. As a result, holders of our securities could lose part or all of their investment in Devon.. Volatile Oil, Gas and NGL Prices Significantly Impact our Business. Our financial condition, results of operations and the value of our properties are highly dependent on the general supply and demand for oil, gas and NGLs, which impact the prices we ultimately realize on our sales of these commodities. Historically, market prices and our realized prices have been volatile. For example, in recent years, NYMEX WTI oil and NYMEX Henry Hub prices ranged from a high of over $100 per Bbl and $6 per MMBtu, respectively, to a low of under $27 per Bbl and $1.70 per MMBtu, respectively. Such volatility is likely to continue in the future due to numerous factors beyond our control, including, but not limited to:. •  supply of and demand for oil, gas and NGLs, including consumer demand in emerging markets, such as China and India;. •  volatility and trading patterns in the commodity-futures markets;. •  conservation and environmental protection efforts;. •  production levels of members of OPEC, Russia or other producing countries;. •  geopolitical risks, including political and civil unrest in the Middle East, Africa and South America;. •  adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, such as tornadoes, earthquakes and hurricanes;. •  regional pricing differentials;. 16. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. •  differing quality of production, including NGL content of gas produced;. •  the level of imports and exports of oil, gas and NGLs and the level of global oil, gas and NGL inventories;. •  the price and availability of alternative fuels;. •  technological advances affecting energy consumption and production;. •  the overall economic environment; and. •  governmental regulations and taxes.. Commodity prices began to decline in the second half of 2014 and, despite a moderate recovery, have generally been pressured since then. This commodity price decline adversely affected our business and results of operations and led to substantial impairments to our oil and gas properties during 2015. A sustained weakness or further deterioration in commodity prices could materially and adversely impact our business by resulting in, or exacerbating, the following effects:. •  reducing the amount of oil, gas and NGLs that we can produce economically;. •  limiting our financial flexibility, liquidity and access to sources of capital, such as equity and debt;. •  reducing our revenues, operating cash flows and profitability;. •  causing us to decrease our capital expenditures or maintain reduced capital spending for an extended period, resulting in lower future production of oil, gas and NGLs; and. •  reducing the carrying value of our properties, resulting in additional noncash write-downs.. Estimates of Oil, Gas and NGL Reserves Are Uncertain and May Be Subject to Revision. The process of estimating oil, gas and NGL reserves is complex and requires significant judgment in the evaluation of available geological, engineering and economic data for each reservoir, particularly for new discoveries. Because of the high degree of judgment involved, different reserve engineers may develop different estimates of reserve quantities and related revenue based on the same data. In addition, the reserve estimates for a given reservoir may change substantially over time as a result of several factors, including additional development and appraisal activity, the viability of production under varying economic conditions, including commodity price declines, and variations in production levels and associated costs. Consequently, material revisions to existing reserve estimates may occur as a result of changes in any of these factors. Such revisions to proved reserves could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and the value of our properties, as well as the estimates of our future net revenue and profitability. Our policies and internal controls related to estimating and recording reserves are included in \"Items 1 and 2. Business and Properties\" of this report.. Discoveries or Acquisitions of Reserves Are Needed to Avoid a Material Decline in Reserves and Production. The production rates from oil and gas properties generally decline as reserves are depleted, while related per unit production costs generally increase due to decreasing reservoir pressures and other factors. Therefore, our estimated proved reserves and future oil, gas and NGL production will decline materially as reserves are produced unless we conduct successful exploration and development activities, such as identifying additional producing zones in existing wells, utilizing secondary or tertiary recovery techniques or acquiring additional properties containing proved reserves. Consequently, our future oil, gas and NGL production and related per unit production costs are highly dependent upon our level of success in finding or acquiring additional reserves.. 17. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Oil and Gas Operations Are Uncertain and Involve Substantial Costs and Risks. Our operating activities are subject to numerous costs and risks, including the risk that we will not encounter commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs. Drilling for oil, gas and NGLs can be unprofitable, not only from dry holes, but from productive wells that do not return a profit because of insufficient revenue from production or high costs. Substantial costs are required to locate, acquire and develop oil and gas properties, and we are often uncertain as to the amount and timing of those costs. Our cost of drilling, completing, equipping and operating wells is often uncertain before drilling commences. Declines in commodity prices and overruns in budgeted expenditures are common risks that can make a particular project uneconomic or less economic than forecasted. While both exploratory and developmental drilling activities involve these risks, exploratory drilling involves greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons. In addition, our oil and gas properties can become damaged, our operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled and the costs of such operations may increase as a result of a variety of factors, including, but not limited to:. •  unexpected drilling conditions, pressure conditions or irregularities in reservoir formations;. •  equipment failures or accidents;. •  fires, explosions, blowouts, cratering or loss of well control, as well as the mishandling or underground migration of fluids and chemicals;. •  adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, such as tornadoes, earthquakes, hurricanes and extreme temperatures;. •  issues with title or in receiving governmental permits or approvals;. •  restricted takeaway capacity for our production, including due to inadequate midstream infrastructure or constrained downstream markets;. •  environmental hazards or liabilities;. •  restrictions in access to, or disposal of, water used or produced in drilling and completion operations; and. •  shortages or delays in the availability of services or delivery of equipment.. The occurrence of one or more of these factors could result in a partial or total loss of our investment in a particular property, as well as significant liabilities. Moreover, certain of these events could result in environmental pollution and impact to third parties, including persons living in proximity to our operations, our employees and employees of our contractors, leading to possible injuries, death or significant damage to property and natural resources.. We Are Subject to Extensive Governmental Regulation, Which Can Change and Could Adversely Impact Our Business. Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state, provincial, tribal, local and other laws, rules and regulations, including with respect to environmental matters, worker health and safety, wildlife conservation, the gathering and transportation of oil, gas and NGLs, conservation policies, reporting obligations, royalty payments, unclaimed property and the imposition of taxes. Such regulations include requirements for permits to drill and to conduct other operations and for provision of financial assurances (such as bonds) covering drilling, completion and well operations. If permits are not issued, or if unfavorable restrictions or conditions are imposed on our drilling or completion activities, we may not be able to conduct our operations as planned. In addition, we may be required to make large expenditures to comply with applicable governmental laws, rules, regulations, permits or orders. For example, certain regulations require the plugging and abandonment of wells and removal of production facilities by current and former operators, which may result in significant costs associated with the removal of tangible equipment and other restorative actions at the end of operations.. In addition, changes in public policy have affected, and in the future could further affect, our operations. Regulatory developments could, among other things, restrict production levels, impose price controls, change environmental protection requirements and increase taxes, royalties and other amounts payable to governments or governmental agencies. Our operating and other compliance costs could increase further if existing laws and regulations are revised or reinterpreted or if new laws and regulations become applicable to our operations. Although we are unable to predict changes to existing laws and regulations, such changes could significantly impact our profitability, financial condition and liquidity, particularly changes related to hydraulic fracturing, pipeline safety, seismic activity, income taxes and climate change, as discussed below.. 18. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Hydraulic Fracturing  -  In recent years, the EPA has made proposals that subject hydraulic fracturing to further regulation and that could potentially restrict the practice of hydraulic fracturing. For example, the EPA has issued final regulations under the federal Clean Air Act establishing performance standards for oil and gas activities, including standards for the capture of air emissions released during hydraulic fracturing and finalized in 2016 regulations that prohibit the discharge of wastewater from hydraulic fracturing operations to publicly owned wastewater treatment plants. The EPA also released a study in 2016 finding that certain aspects of hydraulic fracturing, such as water withdrawals and wastewater management practices, could result in impacts to water resources, although the report did not identify a direct link between hydraulic fracturing and impacts to groundwater resources. The BLM previously finalized regulations to regulate hydraulic fracturing on federal lands, but subsequently issued a repeal of those regulations in 2017. Several states in which we operate have already adopted and more states are considering adopting laws and/or regulations that require disclosure of chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing and impose more stringent permitting, disclosure and well-construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations. In addition, some states and municipalities have significantly limited drilling activities and/or hydraulic fracturing or are considering doing so. Although it is not possible at this time to predict the final outcome of these proposals, any new federal, state or local restrictions on hydraulic fracturing that may be imposed in areas in which we conduct business could potentially result in increased compliance costs, delays in development or restrictions on our operations.. Pipeline Safety  -  The pipeline assets in which we own interests, through EnLink or otherwise, are subject to stringent and complex regulations related to pipeline safety and integrity management. The PHMSA has established a series of rules that require pipeline operators to develop and implement integrity management programs for gas, NGL and condensate transmission pipelines as well as certain low stress pipelines and gathering lines transporting hazardous liquids, such as oil, that, in the event of a failure, could affect \"high consequence areas.\" Additional action by PHMSA with respect to pipeline integrity management requirements may occur in the future. For example, in 2016 PHMSA proposed new rules for gas pipelines that extend pipeline safety programs beyond high consequence areas to newly proposed \"moderate consequence areas\" and would also impose more rigorous testing and reporting requirements on such pipelines. To date, no further action has been taken. More recently, in January 2017, PHMSA finalized regulations for hazardous liquid pipelines that significantly extend and expand the reach of certain PHMSA integrity management requirements (i.e., periodic assessments, leak detection and repairs), regardless of the pipeline's proximity to a high consequence area. The final rule also imposes new reporting requirements for certain unregulated pipelines, including all hazardous liquid gathering lines. Following the change in presidential administrations, implementation of this rule was delayed, but the final rule is expected to be published in the Federal Register and become effective during the first quarter of 2018. At this time, we cannot predict the cost of such requirements, but they could be significant. Moreover, violations of pipeline safety regulations can result in the imposition of significant penalties.. Seismic Activity  -  Earthquakes in northern and central Oklahoma and elsewhere have prompted concerns about seismic activity and possible relationships with the energy industry. Legislative and regulatory initiatives intended to address these concerns may result in additional levels of regulation or other requirements that could lead to operational delays, increase our operating and compliance costs or otherwise adversely affect our operations. In addition, we are currently defending against certain third-party lawsuits and could be subject to additional claims, seeking alleged property damages or other remedies as a result of alleged induced seismic activity in our areas of operation.. Changes to Tax Laws  -  We are subject to U.S. federal income tax as well as income or capital taxes in various state and foreign jurisdictions, and our operating cash flow is sensitive to the amount of income taxes we must pay. In the jurisdictions in which we operate, income taxes are assessed on our earnings after consideration of all allowable deductions and credits. Changes in the types of earnings that are subject to income tax, the types of costs that are considered allowable deductions or the rates assessed on our taxable earnings would all impact our income taxes and resulting operating cash flow. Recently enacted legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Reform Legislation\") significantly affects U.S. tax law by changing how the U.S. imposes income tax on multinational corporations. These changes include, among others, a permanent reduction to the corporate income tax offset by other items intended to broaden the tax base (for example, by imposing significant additional limitations on the deductibility of interest expense and limiting the ability to deduct net operating losses).. The U.S. Department of Treasury has broad authority to issue regulations and interpretative guidance that may significantly impact how we will apply the law and impact our results of operations in the period issued. Further, compliance with the Tax Reform Legislation and the accounting for such provisions require complex computations and accumulation of information not previously required or regularly produced. As a result, we have provided a provisional estimate in our financial statements of the effect of the Tax Reform Legislation. As additional regulatory guidance is issued by the applicable taxing authorities, as accounting treatment is clarified, as we perform additional analysis on the application of the law, and as we refine estimates in calculating the effect, our final analysis, which will be recorded in the period completed, may be different from our current provisional amounts, which could materially affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate.. 19. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Climate Change  -  Continuing political and social attention to the issue of climate change has resulted in legislative, regulatory and other initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, such as carbon dioxide and methane. Policy makers at both the U.S. federal and state levels have introduced legislation and proposed new regulations designed to quantify and limit the emission of greenhouse gases through inventories, limitations and/or taxes on greenhouse gas emissions. For example, both the EPA and the BLM have issued regulations for the control of methane emissions, which also include leak detection and repair requirements, for the oil and gas industry; however, following the change in presidential administrations, both agencies have published proposed rules that seek to delay implementation of their previously issued methane standards while the agencies review and reconsider both rules. Nevertheless, several states where we operate, including Wyoming, have imposed venting and flaring limitations designed to reduce methane emissions from oil and gas exploration and production activities. Legislative and state initiatives to date have generally focused on the development of cap-and-trade and/or carbon tax programs. A cap-and-trade program generally would cap overall greenhouse gas emissions on an economy-wide basis and require major sources of greenhouse gas emissions or major fuel producers to acquire and surrender emission allowances. Carbon taxes could likewise affect us by being based on emissions from our equipment and/or emissions resulting from the use of our products by our customers.. In Canada, greenhouse gas emissions are also being addressed at both the federal and provincial level. Recent climate policies include a legislated oil sands emission limit, and forthcoming policies include methane emissions reduction targets. Beginning January 1, 2018, large industrial emitters are subject to the Carbon Competitiveness Incentive Regulation (CCIR). This regulation prices carbon, but provides cost protection to emission-intensive / trade-exposed industries, including Devon's oil sands operations. The impact to our operations from these regulations is expected to be minimal in the near term. Oil and gas facilities that are not subject to the CCIR are exempt from the economy-wide carbon levy until 2023.. In addition, activists concerned about the potential effects of climate change have directed their attention at sources of funding for fossil-fuel energy companies, which has resulted in certain financial institutions, funds and other sources of capital restricting or eliminating their investment in oil and natural gas activities. Ultimately, this could make it more difficult to secure funding for exploration and production activities. These various legislative, regulatory and other activities addressing greenhouse gas emissions could adversely affect our business, including by imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of greenhouse gases from, our equipment and operations, which could require us to incur costs to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases associated with our operations. Limitations on greenhouse gas emissions could also adversely affect demand for oil and gas, which could lower the value of our reserves and have a material adverse effect on our profitability, financial condition and liquidity.. Our Hedging Activities Limit Participation in Commodity Price Increases and Involve Other Risks. We enter into hedging activities with respect to a portion of our production to manage our exposure to oil, gas and NGL price volatility. To the extent that we engage in price risk management activities to protect ourselves from commodity price declines, we may be prevented from fully realizing the benefits of commodity price increases above the prices established by our hedging contracts. In addition, our hedging arrangements may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which the contract counterparties fail to perform under the contracts. Moreover, as a result of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and other legislation, hedging transactions and many of our contract counterparties have become subject to increased governmental oversight and regulations in recent years. Although we cannot predict the ultimate impact of these laws and the related rulemaking, some of which is ongoing, existing or future regulations may adversely affect the cost and availability of our hedging arrangements, including by causing our contract counterparties, which are generally financial institutions and other market participants, to curtail or cease their derivatives activities.. The Credit Risk of Our Counterparties Could Adversely Affect Us. We enter into a variety of transactions that expose us to counterparty credit risk. For example, we have exposure to financial institutions and insurance companies through our hedging arrangements, our syndicated revolving credit facility and our insurance policies. Disruptions in the financial markets or otherwise may impact these counterparties and affect their ability to fulfill their existing obligations and their willingness to enter into future transactions with us.. In addition, we are exposed to the risk of financial loss from trade, joint interest billing and other receivables. We sell our oil, gas and NGLs to a variety of purchasers, and, as an operator, we pay expenses and bill our non-operating partners for their respective share of costs. We also frequently look to buyers of oil and gas properties from us to perform certain obligations associated with the disposed assets, including the removal of production facilities and plugging and abandonment of wells. Certain of these counterparties may experience insolvency, liquidity problems or other issues and may not be able to meet their obligations and liabilities (including contingent liabilities) owed to, and assumed from, us, particularly during a depressed or volatile commodity price environment. Any such default by these counterparties may result in us being forced to cover the costs of those obligations and liabilities, which could adversely impact our financial results and condition.. 20. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Our Debt May Limit Our Liquidity and Financial Flexibility, and Any Downgrade of Our Credit Rating Could Adversely Impact Us. As of December 31, 2017, we had total consolidated indebtedness of $10.4 billion. Our indebtedness and other financial commitments have important consequences to our business, including, but not limited to:. •  requiring us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flows from operations to debt service payments, thereby limiting our ability to fund working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions and other general corporate purposes;. •  increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including low commodity price environments; and. •  limiting our ability to obtain additional financing due to higher costs and more restrictive covenants.. In addition, we receive credit ratings from rating agencies in the U.S. with respect to our debt. Factors that may impact our credit ratings include, among others, debt levels, planned asset sales and purchases, liquidity, forecasted production growth and commodity prices. We are currently required to provide letters of credit or other assurances under certain of our contractual arrangements. Any credit downgrades could adversely impact our ability to access financing and trade credit, require us to provide additional letters of credit or other assurances under contractual arrangements and increase our interest rate under any credit facility borrowing as well as the cost of any other future debt.. Environmental Matters and Related Costs Can Be Significant. As an owner, lessee or operator of oil and gas properties, we are subject to various federal, state, provincial, tribal and local laws and regulations relating to discharge of materials into, and protection of, the environment. These laws and regulations may, among other things, impose liability on us for the cost of remediating pollution that results from our operations. Environmental laws may impose strict, joint and several liability, and failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations can result in the imposition of administrative, civil or criminal fines and penalties, as well as injunctions limiting operations in affected areas. Any future environmental costs of fulfilling our commitments to the environment are uncertain and will be governed by several factors, including future changes to regulatory requirements. Changes in or additions to public policy regarding the protection of the environment could have a significant impact on our operations and profitability.. Cyber Attacks May Adversely Impact Our Operations. Our business has become increasingly dependent on digital technologies, and we anticipate expanding our use of technology in our operations, including through process automation and data analytics. Concurrent with this growing dependence on technology is greater sensitivity to cyberattack activities, which have been increasing against our industry. Cyber attackers often attempt to gain unauthorized access to digital systems for purposes of misappropriating sensitive information, intellectual property or other assets, corrupting data or causing operational disruptions. These attacks may be perpetrated by third parties or insiders. Techniques used in these attacks range from highly sophisticated efforts to electronically circumvent network security to more traditional intelligence gathering and social engineering aimed at obtaining information necessary to gain access. Cyber attacks may also be carried out in a manner that does not require gaining unauthorized access, such as by causing denial-of-service attacks. In addition, our vendors, midstream providers and other business partners may separately suffer disruptions or breaches from cyber attacks, which, in turn, could adversely impact our operations and compromise our information. Although we have not suffered material losses related to cyber attacks to date, if we were successfully attacked, we could incur substantial remediation and other costs or suffer other negative consequences, including litigation risks. Moreover, as the sophistication of cyber attacks continues to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to further enhance our digital security or to remediate vulnerabilities.. Limited Control on Properties Operated by Others. Certain of the properties in which we have an interest are operated by other companies and involve third-party working interest owners. We have limited influence and control over the operation or future development of such properties, including compliance with environmental, health and safety regulations or the amount and timing of required future capital expenditures. These limitations and our dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these properties could result in unexpected future costs and delays, curtailments or cancellations of operations or future development, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. 21. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Midstream Capacity Constraints and Interruptions Impact Commodity Sales. We rely on midstream facilities and systems to process our gas production and to transport our oil, gas and NGL production to downstream markets. Such midstream systems include EnLink's systems, as well as other systems operated by us or third parties. Regardless of who operates the midstream systems we rely upon, a portion of our production in any region may be interrupted or shut in from time to time due to losing access to plants, pipelines or gathering systems. Such access could be lost due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, weather conditions and natural disasters, accidents, field labor issues or strikes. Additionally, we and third parties may be subject to constraints that limit our or their ability to construct, maintain or repair midstream facilities needed to process and transport our production. Such interruptions or constraints could negatively impact our production and associated profitability.. Insurance Does Not Cover All Risks. As discussed above, our business is hazardous and is subject to all of the operating risks normally associated with the exploration, development, production, processing and transportation of oil, gas and NGLs.. To mitigate financial losses resulting from these operational hazards, we maintain comprehensive general liability insurance, as well as insurance coverage against certain losses resulting from physical damages, loss of well control, business interruption and pollution events that are considered sudden and accidental. We also maintain workers' compensation and employer's liability insurance. However, our insurance coverage does not provide 100% reimbursement of potential losses resulting from these operational hazards. Additionally, insurance coverage is generally not available to us for pollution events that are considered gradual, and we have limited or no insurance coverage for certain risks such as political risk and war. Our insurance does not cover penalties or fines assessed by governmental authorities. The occurrence of a significant event against which we are not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on our profitability, financial condition and liquidity.. Competition for Assets, Materials, People and Capital Can Be Significant. Strong competition exists in all sectors of the oil and gas industry. We compete with major integrated and independent oil and gas companies for the acquisition of oil and gas leases and properties. We also compete for the equipment and personnel required to explore, develop and operate properties. Typically, during times of rising commodity prices, drilling and operating costs will also increase. During these periods, there is often a shortage of drilling rigs and other oilfield services, which could adversely affect our ability to execute our development plans on a timely basis and within budget. Competition is also prevalent in the marketing of oil, gas and NGLs. Certain of our competitors have financial and other resources substantially greater than ours. They also may have established strategic long-term positions and relationships in areas in which we may seek new entry. As a consequence, we may be at a competitive disadvantage in bidding for assets or services and accessing capital. In addition, many of our larger competitors may have a competitive advantage when responding to factors that affect demand for oil and gas production, such as changing worldwide price and production levels, the cost and availability of alternative fuels and the application of government regulations.. Our Acquisition and Divestiture Activities Involve Substantial Risks. Our business depends, in part, on making acquisitions that complement or expand our current business and successfully integrating any acquired assets or businesses. If we are unable to make attractive acquisitions, our future growth could be limited. Furthermore, even if we do make acquisitions, they may not result in an increase in our cash flow from operations or otherwise result in the benefits anticipated due to various risks, including, but not limited to:. •  mistaken estimates or assumptions about reserves, potential drilling locations, revenues and costs, including synergies and the overall costs of equity or debt;. •  difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, products and personnel of the acquired assets or business; and. •  unknown and unforeseen liabilities or other issues related to any acquisition for which contractual protections prove inadequate, including environmental liabilities and title defects.. In addition, from time to time, we may sell or otherwise dispose of certain of our properties as a result of an evaluation of our asset portfolio and to help enhance our liquidity. These transactions also have inherent risks, including possible delays in closing, the risk of lower-than-expected sales proceeds for the disposed assets and potential post-closing claims for indemnification. Moreover, volatility in commodity prices may result in fewer potential bidders, unsuccessful sales efforts and a higher risk that buyers may seek to terminate a transaction prior to closing.. 22. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements"
