[1] "ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. Our future results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity, and the market price of our common shares are subject to various risks, including those mentioned below and those that are discussed from time-to-time in our other periodic filings with the SEC.  Investors should carefully consider these risks, along with the other information contained in this report, before making an investment decision regarding our common shares.  There may be additional risks of which we are currently unaware, or which we currently consider immaterial.  The occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity, and the value of our common shares.  Please see \"Forward Looking Statements\" within Item 1 of Part I of this Form 10-K.  We assume no obligation to update any forward looking statements as a result of new information, future events or other factors.. Poor investment results of our products could affect our ability to attract new clients or reduce the amount of assets under management, potentially negatively impacting revenue and net income.. If we fail to deliver acceptable investment results for our clients, both in the short and long term, we will likely experience diminished investor interest and a decreased level of AUM.  Adverse opinions of the funds we advise published by third parties, including rating agencies and industry analysts, could also decrease our AUM and our revenues.. Investment funds are assessed and rated by independent third parties, including rating agencies, industry analysts and publications.  Investors can be influenced by such ratings.  If any of the funds we advise receives an adverse report, it could negatively influence the amount of money invested into the fund and increase withdrawals from the fund reducing our AUM and our revenue.. Our success depends on our key personnel, and our financial performance could be negatively affected by the loss of their services.. Our success depends on highly skilled personnel, including portfolio managers, research analysts, and management, many of whom have specialized expertise and extensive experience in the investment management industry.  Financial services professionals are in high demand, and we face significant competition for qualified employees.  With the exception of R. H. Dillon, our Chairman and a portfolio manager, our employees do not have employment contracts and generally can terminate their employment at any time.  We cannot assure that we will be able to retain or replace key personnel.  In order to retain or replace our key personnel, we may be required to increase compensation, which would decrease net income.  The loss of key personnel could damage our reputation and make it more difficult to retain and attract new employees and clients.  A loss of client assets resulting from the departure of key personnel may materially decrease our revenues and net income.. Our AUM, which impacts revenue, is subject to significant fluctuations.. A large majority of our revenue is calculated as a percentage of AUM or is related to the general performance of the equity securities market.  A decline in securities prices or in the sale of investment products, or an increase in fund redemptions, generally would reduce revenue and net income.  Financial market declines would generally negatively impact the level of our AUM and consequently our revenue and net income.  A recession or other economic or political events, both in the United States as well as globally, could also adversely impact our revenue, if such events led to a decreased demand for products, a higher redemption rate, or a decline in securities prices.. Our investment results and/or the growth in our AUM may be constrained if appropriate investment opportunities are not available or if we close certain of our portfolios to new investors.. Our ability to deliver strong investment results depends in large part on our ability to identify appropriate investment opportunities in which to invest client assets.  If we are unable to identify sufficient investment opportunities for existing and new client assets on a timely basis, our investment results could be adversely affected.  The risk that appropriate investment opportunities may be unavailable is influenced by a number of factors, including general market conditions, and is likely to increase if our AUM increases rapidly.  In addition, if we determine that sufficient investment opportunities are not available for a portfolio strategy, or we believe that it is necessary in order to continue to produce attractive returns from a portfolio, we will consider closing the portfolio to new investors.  As of December 31, 2017, we have closed three investment strategies to new investors.  If we misjudge the point at which it would be optimal to close a portfolio, the investment results of the portfolio could be negatively impacted.. 9. Table of Contents. Our investment approach may underperform other investment approaches during certain market conditions.. Our investment strategies are best suited for investors with long-term investment horizons.  Our investment strategies may not perform well during certain periods of time, including during periods when the market is more narrowly focused on growth-oriented stocks.. Additionally, since we apply the same intrinsic value investment process across all of our strategies, utilizing the same analyst team, and due to overlap in many of our investment strategies, we could have common positions and industry concentrations across many of our strategies at the same time.  As such, factors leading one of our investment strategies to underperform may lead other strategies to underperform at the same time.. We are subject to substantial competition in all aspects of our business.. Our investment products compete against a number of investment products and services from:. •asset management firms;. •mutual fund companies;. •commercial banks and thrift institutions;. •insurance companies;. •exchange traded funds;. •hedge funds; and. •brokerage and investment banking firms.. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we have and may operate in more markets or offer a broader range of products, including passively managed or \"index\" products.  Some of these institutions operate in a different regulatory environment, which may give them certain competitive advantages in the investment products and portfolio structures that they offer.  We compete with other providers of investment services primarily based upon our philosophy, performance and client service.  Some institutions have a broad array of products and distribution channels that make it more difficult for us to compete with them.   If current or potential customers decide to use one of our competitors, we could face a significant decline in market share, AUM, revenues, and net income.  If we are required to lower our fees in order to remain competitive, our net income could be significantly reduced because some of our expenses are fixed, especially over shorter periods of time, and our expenses may not decrease in proportion to the decrease in revenues.  Additionally, over the past several years, investors have generally shown a preference for passive investment products, such as index and exchange traded funds, over actively managed strategies.  If this trend continues, our AUM may be negatively impacted.. Market and competitive pressures in recent years have created a trend towards lower management fees in the asset management industry and there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current fee structure.  As a result, a shift in our AUM from higher to lower fee generating clients and strategies would result in a decrease in profitability even if our AUM increases or remains unchanged.. The loss of access to or increased fees required by third-party distribution sources to market our portfolios and access our client base could adversely affect our results of operations.. Our ability to attract additional AUM is dependent on our relationship with third-party financial intermediaries.  We compensate some of these intermediaries for access to investors and for various marketing services provided.  These distribution sources and client bases may not continue to be accessible to us for reasonable terms, or at all.  If such access is restricted or eliminated, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.  Fees paid to financial intermediaries for investor access and marketing services have generally increased in recent years.  If such fee increases continue, refusal to pay them could restrict our access to those client bases while paying them could adversely affect our profitability.. A significant portion of the Company's revenues are based on contracts with the Funds that are subject to termination without cause and on short notice.. The Company is very dependent on our contractual relationships with the Funds. If our advisory or administration agreements with the Funds were terminated, not renewed, or amended to reduce fees, we would be materially and adversely affected. Generally, these agreements are terminable by either party upon 60 days written notice without penalty. The agreements are subject to annual approval by either (i) the board of trustees of the Funds or (ii) a vote of the majority of the outstanding voting securities of each Fund. The agreements automatically terminate in the event of their assignment by either the Company or the Fund. We generated approximately 80%, 74%, and 75% of our 2017, 2016 and 2015 revenues, respectively, from our advisory and administrative contracts with the Funds, including 29%, 17%, and 12% from the advisory contracts with the Diamond Hill Long-Short Fund, Large Cap Fund, and Small-Mid Cap Fund, respectively, during 2017. The loss of the Long-Short Fund,. 10. Table of Contents. Large Cap Fund, or Small-Mid Cap Fund contracts would have a material adverse effect on the Company. We consider our relationship with the Funds and their board of trustees to be good, and we have no reason to believe that these advisory or administration contracts will not be renewed in the future; however, there can be no assurance that the Funds will choose to continue their relationships with us.. Our investment income and asset levels may be negatively impacted by fluctuations in our investment portfolio.. We currently have a substantial portion of our assets invested in Company sponsored investments. All of these investments are subject to market risk and our non-operating investment income could be adversely affected by adverse market performance. Fluctuations in investment income are expected to occur in the future.. Changes in tax laws and unanticipated tax obligations could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.. We are subject to federal, state and local income taxes in the United States. Tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken or implement changes in tax policy, which may result in the assessment of additional taxes. We regularly assess the appropriateness of our tax positions and reporting. We cannot provide assurance, however, that we will accurately predict the outcomes of audits, and the actual outcomes of these audits could be unfavorable.. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client or customer information, whether through a breach of our computer systems or otherwise, or other breaches in the security of our systems could severely harm our business.. As part of our business, we collect, process and transmit sensitive and confidential information about our clients and employees, as well as proprietary information about our business.  We have policies and procedures pursuant to which we take numerous security measures to prevent cyber-attacks of various kinds as well as fraudulent and inadvertent activity by persons who have been granted access to such confidential information.  Nevertheless, our systems, like all technology systems, remain vulnerable to unauthorized access, which can result in theft or corruption of information.  In addition, we share information with third parties upon whom we rely for various functions.   The systems of such third parties also are vulnerable to cyber threats.  Attacks can come from unrelated third parties through the internet, from access to hardware removed from our premises or those of third parties or from employees acting intentionally or inadvertently.. Cyber incidents can involve deliberate attacks designed to corrupt our information systems and make them unusable by us to operate our business; thefts of information used by the perpetrators for gain in numerous ways; or inadvertent releases of information by employees or third parties with whom we do business.. Cyber-attacks that corrupt our information systems and make them unusable by us could impair our ability to advise our clients on investments to be made. Corruption of the systems of our third-party vendors could impact the Company to the same extent as corruption of our own systems.  If information about our employees is intentionally stolen or inadvertently made public, that information could be used to commit identity theft, obtain credit in an employee's name or steal from an employee.  If information about our business is obtained by unauthorized persons, whether through intentional attacks or inadvertent releases of information, it could be used to harm our competitive position.. Whether information is corrupted, stolen or inadvertently disclosed, and regardless of the nature of the information, whether it be proprietary information or personal information about clients or employees, the results could be multiple and materially harmful to us.. • Our reputation could be harmed, resulting in the loss of clients, vendors and employees or making payments or concessions to such persons to maintain our relationships with them.  The loss of key personnel or contracts with the Funds would be particularly harmful to our business.. • Our inability to operate our business fully, even if temporarily, and thus fulfill contracts with clients or vendors could result in terminations of contracts and loss of revenue.. • Harm suffered by clients or vendors whose contracts we have breached, or by clients, vendors or employees whose information is compromised, could result in costly litigation against us.. • Our need to focus attention on remediation of a cyber problem could take our attention away from the operation of our business, resulting in lost revenue.. • We could incur costs to repair systems made inoperable by a cyber-attack and to make changes to our systems to reduce future cyber threats.  Those changes could include obtaining additional technologies as well as employing additional personnel and training employees.. 11. Table of Contents. • The interruption of our business or theft of proprietary information could harm our ability to compete.. All of the above potential results of a cyber incident could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. Operational risks may disrupt our business, result in losses or limit our growth.. We are dependent on the capacity and reliability of the communications, information and technology systems supporting our operations, whether developed, owned and operated by the Company or by third parties. Operational risks such as trading or operational errors, interruption of our financial, accounting, trading, compliance and other data processing systems, the loss of data contained in the systems, or compromised systems due to cyber-attack, could result in a disruption of our business, liability to clients, regulatory intervention or reputational damage, and thus adversely affect our business.. Our business is subject to substantial governmental regulation, which can change frequently and may increase costs of compliance; reduce revenue; result in fines, penalties and lawsuits for noncompliance; and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Our business is subject to a variety of federal securities laws, including the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, the Investment Company Act of 1940, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the U.S. PATRIOT Act of 2001 and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.  In addition, we are subject to significant regulation and oversight by the SEC.  Changes in legal, regulatory, accounting, tax and compliance requirements could have a significant effect on our operations and results, including but not limited to increased expenses and reduced investor interest in certain funds and other investment products we offer.  We continually monitor legislative, tax, regulatory, accounting, and compliance developments that could impact our business.  We and our directors, officers and employees could be subject to lawsuits or regulatory proceedings for violations of such laws and regulations, which could result in the payment of fines or penalties and cause reputational harm to us.  Such harm could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations, as well as divert management's attention from operations.. We continue to seek to understand, evaluate and, when possible, manage and control these and other business risks.. Trading in our common shares is limited, which may adversely affect the time and the price at which you can sell your shares of the Company.. Although our common shares are listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, the shares are held by a relatively small number of shareholders, and trading in our common shares is not active.  The spread between the bid and the asked prices is often wide.  As a result, you may not be able to sell your shares on short notice, and the sale of a large number of shares at one time could temporarily depress the market price.  In addition, certain shareholders, including certain directors and officers of the Company, own a significant number of shares.  The sale of a large number of shares by any such individual could temporarily depress the market price."
