[1] "Item 1A.   Risk Factors. The Bank's commercial real estate lending may subject it to greater risk of an adverse impact on operations from a decline in the economy.. The credit quality of the Bank's portfolio can have a significant impact on the Company's earnings, results of operations and financial condition. As part of the Company's strategic plan, it originates loans secured by commercial real estate that are generally viewed as exposing lenders to a greater risk of loss than both one-to-four family and multifamily residential mortgage loans. Because payments on loans secured by commercial real estate are often dependent upon successful operation or management of the collateral properties, as well as the success of the business and retail tenants occupying the properties, repayment of such loans are generally more vulnerable to weak economic conditions. Further, the collateral securing such loans may depreciate over time, be difficult to appraise, or fluctuate in value based upon the rentability, among other commercial factors.. The performance of Bank's multifamily and mixed-use loans could be adversely impacted by regulation or a weakened economy.. Multifamily and mixed-use loans generally involve a greater risk than one- to four- family residential mortgage loans because government regulations such as rent control and rent stabilization laws, which are outside the control of the borrower or the Bank, could impair the value of the security for the loan or the future cash flow of such properties. As a result, rental income might not rise sufficiently over time to satisfy increases in the loan rate at repricing or increases in overhead expenses (e.g., utilities, taxes, etc.). Impaired loans are thus difficult to identify before they become problematic. In addition, if the cash flow from a collateral property is reduced (e.g., if leases are not obtained or renewed), the borrower's ability to repay the loan and the value of the security for the loan may be impaired.. 24. Table of Contents. If bank regulators impose limitations on the Bank's commercial real estate lending activities, earnings could be adversely affected.. In 2006, the federal bank regulatory agencies issued joint guidance entitled \"Concentrations in Commercial Real Estate Lending, Sound Risk Management Practices\" (the \"CRE Guidance\"). Although the CRE Guidance did not establish specific lending limits, it provides that a bank's commercial real estate lending exposure may receive increased supervisory scrutiny where total non-owner occupied commercial real estate loans, including loans secured by apartment buildings, investor commercial real estate and construction and land loans, represent 300% or more of an institution's total risk-based capital and the outstanding balance of the commercial real estate loan portfolio has increased by 50% or more during the preceding 36 months. The Bank's level of non-owner occupied commercial real estate equaled 775% of total risk-based capital at December 31, 2017. Including owner-occupied commercial real estate, the ratio of commercial real estate loans to total risk-based capital ratio would be 791% at December 31, 2017.. In December 2015, the federal bank regulatory agencies released a new statement on prudent risk management for commercial real estate lending (the \"2015 Statement\"). In the 2015 Statement, the federal bank regulatory agencies express concerns about easing commercial real estate underwriting standards, direct financial institutions to maintain underwriting discipline and exercise risk management practices to identify, measure and monitor lending risks, and indicate that the federal bank regulatory agencies will continue \"to pay special attention\" to commercial real estate lending activities and concentrations going forward. If the NYSDFS or FRB were to impose restrictions on the amount of commercial real estate loans the Bank can hold in its portfolio, or require higher capital ratios as a result of the level of commercial real estate loans held, the Bank's earnings could be adversely affected.. The continued expansion of the Bank's Business Banking division will subject the Bank to increased lending risks.. During the year ended December 31, 2017, the Business Banking division originated $138.6 million of C&I loans and $99.1 million of direct-sourced commercial real estate loans, and the Bank intends to increase such originations. Strategic plans for the year ended December 31, 2018 also include increased originations of ADC loans and SBA loans.  Such loans generally carry a greater risk of loss than one-to-four family and multifamily residential mortgage loans.  Since the repayment of commercial loans depends on the successful operation of the borrower's business or properties, repayment of such loans can be affected by adverse conditions in the real estate market or local economy, or mismanagement of the business. Additionally, nearly all of the Bank's C&I loans are unseasoned, meaning it is difficult to assess the future performance of these recently originated loans because of their relatively limited payment history from which to judge future collectability. These loans may experience higher delinquency or charge-off levels than our historical loan portfolio experience, which could adversely affect our future performance. Because the Bank plans to continue to increase our originations of these loans, it may be necessary to increase the level of our allowance for loan losses because of the increased risk characteristics associated with these types of loans. Any such increase to our allowance for loan losses would adversely affect our earnings.. Changes in interest rates could affect the Bank's profitability.. The Bank's ability to earn a profit depends primarily on net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income that the Bank earns on its interest-earning assets, such as loans and investments, and the interest expense that the Bank pays on its interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. The Bank's profitability depends on its ability to manage its assets and liabilities during periods of changing market interest rates.. In a period of increased interest rates, the interest income earned on the Bank's assets may not increase as rapidly as the interest paid on its liabilities. In such an environment, the Bank's cost of funds is expected to increase more rapidly than interest earned on its loan and investment portfolio, as its primary source of funds is deposits with generally shorter maturities than those on its loans and investments. This makes the balance sheet more liability sensitive in the short term. Such an increase in the cost of funds, without a corresponding increase in the yield of the Bank's loan portfolio, could reduce the Bank's profitability.. 25. Table of Contents. A sustained decrease in market interest rates could also adversely affect the Bank's earnings. When interest rates decline, borrowers tend to refinance higher rate loans at lower rates. Under those circumstances, the Bank would not be able to reinvest those prepayments in assets earning interest rates as high as the rates on those prepaid loans. Additionally, changes in interest rates also affect the fair value of the securities portfolio.  Generally, the value of securities moves inversely with changes in interest rates. A decrease in high-yielding loans or fluctuations in the securities portfolio could reduce the Bank's profitability.. The Company's business may be adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally and in the areas in which it conducts its business.. The Company's financial performance generally, and in particular the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans, is highly dependent upon the business environment in the markets where the Company operates, particularly in the local NYC metropolitan area where the Company conducts substantially all of its business.  Conditions in the marketplace for the Bank's property collateral types (mainly multifamily and commercial real estate) remained stronger than most other parts of the country throughout the years of the financial crisis, and have since rebounded to healthy pre-crisis levels. However, a return to prolonged deteriorating economic conditions could significantly affect the markets in which the Bank does business, the value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Declines in real estate values and sales volumes and unemployment levels may result in greater loan delinquencies, increases in our nonperforming, criticized and classified assets and a decline in demand for our products and services. These events may cause us to incur losses and may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. The Bank's allowance for loan losses may be insufficient.. The Bank's allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level considered adequate by management to absorb probable incurred losses inherent in its loan portfolio. The amount of inherent loan losses which could be ultimately realized is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates that could be beyond the Bank's control. Such losses could exceed current estimates. Although management believes that the Bank's allowance for loan losses is adequate, there can be no assurance that the allowance will be sufficient to satisfy actual loan losses should such losses be realized.. Additionally, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\") has adopted a new accounting standard that will be effective for us for the fiscal year beginning January 1, 2020. This standard, referred to as \"Current Expected Credit Loss\" (\"CECL\"), will require financial institutions to determine periodic estimates of lifetime expected credit losses on loans, and recognize the expected credit losses as allowances for loan losses. This will change the current method of providing allowances for loan losses that are probable, which may require the Bank to increase its allowance for loan losses and to greatly increase the types of data it collects and reviews to determine the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses. The Company is currently evaluating the effect that the CECL model will have on its consolidated financial statements, but the extent of the effect is indeterminable at this time as it will be dependent on the nature and characteristics of the Bank's loan portfolio at the adoption date, as well as economic conditions and forecasts at that date. Any increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and capital, and may have a material adverse effect on the Bank's financial condition and results of operations.. The Company operates in a highly regulated industry and is subject to uncertain risks related to changes in laws, government regulation and monetary policy.. The Holding Company and the Bank are subject to extensive legislation, as well supervision, regulation and examination by the NYSDFS (the Bank's primary regulator), the FRB (the Holding Company's primary regulator) and the FDIC, as its deposit insurer. Such laws and regulations limit the manner in which the Holding Company and Bank conduct business, undertake new investments and activities and obtain financing. The regulatory structure also provides the regulatory authorities extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities and examination policies, including policies with respect to capital levels, the classification of assets and the establishment of adequate loan loss reserves for regulatory purposes. This regulatory scheme is designed primarily for the protection of the deposit insurance funds and the Bank's depositors, and not to benefit shareholders or creditors.. 26. Table of Contents. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject the Holding Company and Bank to regulatory enforcement actions, including administrative orders that may be judicially enforced, the imposition of capital requirements, restrictions on the growth of the Holding Company and the Bank, the removal of officers or directors, or the assessment of significant civil money penalties against the Holding Company and the Bank.  If the Holding Company or the Bank becomes subject to any regulatory actions, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and growth prospects.. Expansion, growth and acquisitions could negatively impact earnings if not successful.. The Company may grow organically, by geographic expansion, through business line expansion, and through acquisitions of branches or other financial institutions or financial services companies. The success of any expansion endeavor depends on the Company's ability to continue to maintain and develop an infrastructure appropriate to support and integrate such growth, as well as the Company's ability to successfully introduce new products and services to its customers or to enter new markets.. Merger and acquisition activities are subject to a number of risks, including lending, operating, and integration risks. Acquisitions may disrupt the Company's business by diverting management's time and attention, and may expose the Company to unknown or contingent liabilities, or asset quality problems, of the target company. Such growth requires careful due diligence, evaluation of risks, and projections of future operations and financial conditions. Actual results may differ from expectations and could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. Acquisitions often involve the negotiation and execution of extensive merger agreements, which may lead to litigation risks or operating constraints.. Additionally, as the Company grows, its total assets will approach the $10 billion threshold for additional Dodd Frank regulatory requirements.  These regulations affect revenues and operating costs, and introduce additional compliance requirements.  If additional investments in growth are not sufficiently profitable, some profitability metrics may be reduced.. Competition from other financial institutions or government agencies in originating loans and attracting deposits may limit our growth and adversely affect profitability.. The Bank operates in a highly competitive industry and market area, which could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes, and continued consolidation. The Bank competes with numerous commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Recently, new market entrants such as government sponsored agencies have also begun to compete in our marketplace.  The Bank faces sustained competition for the origination of multifamily residential and commercial real estate loans, which may inhibit the Bank's ability to maintain its current level and pricing of such loans. Customers may also be persuaded to pursue alternatives to the Bank's deposits, causing the Bank to lose a historically less expensive source of funding. Any loss of business to the Bank's competitors would adversely affect its profitability.. The Holding Company's depends on the success and growth of the Bank.. The Holding Company's primary business activity is to act as the holding company of the Bank. Therefore, the Holding Company's future profitability will depend on the success and growth of this subsidiary.  The continued and successful implementation of the Holding Company's growth strategy will require, among other things that the Bank increases its market share by attracting new customers that currently bank at other financial institutions in the Bank's market area.. Additionally, the Holding Company's principal source of funds to make payments on its subordinated debt securities and pay dividends on the Common Stock are the dividends and other distributions it receives from the Bank.  The Holding Company's ability to receive dividends and other distributions from the Bank is contingent on a number of factors, including the Bank's ability to meet applicable regulatory capital requirements and the Bank's profitability and earnings and strength of its balance sheet.. 27. Table of Contents. The Bank is subject to stringent capital requirements.. Effective January 1, 2015, the federal banking agencies have adopted the Basel III Capital Rules, which apply to both the Bank and Holding Company. These rules are subject to phase-in periods until January 1, 2019 for certain of their components. The Basel III Capital Rules will result in significantly higher capital requirements and more restrictive leverage and liquidity ratios for the Bank than those previously in effect.  The Basel III Capital Rules will also apply to the Holding Company, which, as a savings and loan holding company, was not previously subject to consolidated risk-based capital requirements.. While the Bank expects to satisfy the requirements of the Basel III Capital Rules, inclusive of the capital conservation buffer, as phased in by the FRB, it may fail to do so. In addition, these requirements could have a negative impact on the Bank's ability to lend, grow deposit balances, make acquisitions and make capital distributions in the form of increased dividends or share repurchases. Higher capital levels could also lower the Company's consolidated return on equity.. The Company's accounting estimates and risk management processes rely on analytical and forecasting models.. The processes the Company uses to estimate its probable incurred loan losses and to measure the fair value of some financial instruments, as well as the processes used to estimate the effects of changing interest rates and other market measures on the Company's financial condition and results of operations, depends upon the use of analytical and forecasting models. These models reflect assumptions that may not be accurate, particularly in times of market stress or other unforeseen circumstances. Even if these assumptions are adequate, the models may prove to be inadequate or inaccurate because of other flaws in their design or their implementation. If the models the Company uses for interest rate risk and asset-liability management are inadequate, the Company may incur increased or unexpected losses upon changes in market interest rates or other market measures. If the models the Company uses for determining its probable incurred loan losses are inadequate, the allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to support future charge-offs. If the model the Company uses to measure the fair value of financial instruments is inadequate, the fair value of such financial instruments may fluctuate unexpectedly or may not accurately reflect what the Company could realize upon sale or settlement of such financial instruments. Any such failure in the Company's analytical or forecasting models could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. The value of the Company's goodwill and other intangible assets may decline in the future.. As of December 31, 2017, the Company had $55.6 million of goodwill and other intangible assets.  A significant decline in the Company's expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate, slower growth rates or a significant and sustained decline in the price of the Common Stock could result in impairment to goodwill. If the Company identified impairment to goodwill, it would be required to record the appropriate charge to its earnings, which could have an adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Company's controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented.. The Company's internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures are based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are satisfied. Any failure or circumvention of the Company's controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Company's risk management practices may not be effective in mitigating the risks to which it is subject or in reducing the potential for losses in connection with such risks.. As a financial institution, the Company is subject to a number of risks, including credit, interest rate, liquidity, market, operational, legal/compliance, reputational, and strategic. The Company's risk management framework is designed to minimize the risks to which it is subject, as well as any losses resulting from such risks. Although the Company seeks to identify, measure, monitor, report, and control the Company's exposure to such risks, and employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and mitigation techniques in the process, those techniques are inherently limited because they cannot anticipate the existence or development of risks that are currently unknown and unanticipated.. 28. Table of Contents. For example, recent economic conditions, heightened legislative and regulatory scrutiny of the financial services industry, and increases in the overall complexity of the Company's operations, among other developments, have resulted in the creation of a variety of risks that were previously unknown and unanticipated, highlighting the intrinsic limitations of the Company's risk monitoring and mitigation techniques. As a result, the further development of previously unknown or unanticipated risks may result in the Company incurring losses in the future that could adversely impact its financial condition and results of operations.. The Company's operations rely on certain external vendors.. The Company relies on certain external vendors to provide products and services necessary to maintain its day-to-day operations.  Accordingly, the Company's operations are exposed to risk that these vendors will not perform in accordance with the contracted arrangements. The failure of an external vendor to perform in accordance with the contracted arrangements because of changes in the vendor's organizational structure, financial condition, support for existing products and services, or strategic focus, or for any other reason, could be disruptive to the Company's operations, which could have a material adverse impact on the Company's business and, in turn, the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. The Company is subject to environmental liability risk associated with lending activities.. A significant portion of the Company's loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, the Company may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, the Company may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require the Company to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property's value or limit the Company's ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase the Company's exposure to environmental liability. Environmental reviews of real property before initiating foreclosure may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Company's information technology systems may be subject to failure, interruption or security breaches.. Information technology systems are critical to the Company's business. The Company uses various technology systems to manage its customer relationships, general ledger, securities investments, deposits, and loans. The Company collects, processes and stores sensitive customer data by utilizing computer systems and telecommunications networks operated by it and third party service providers. The Company has established policies and procedures to prevent or limit the impact of system failures and interruptions, and security breaches, including privacy breaches and cyber attacks, but such events may still occur or may not be adequately addressed if they do occur.. There have been increasing efforts on the part of third parties, including through cyber attacks, to breach data security at financial institutions or with respect to financial transactions. There have been several recent instances involving financial services and consumer-based companies reporting the unauthorized disclosure of client or customer information or the destruction or theft of corporate data. Although the Company takes protective measures, the security of its computer systems, software, and networks may be vulnerable to breaches, unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses, distributed denial of service attacks or other malicious code and cyber attacks that could have an impact on information security. Because the techniques used to cause security breaches change frequently, the Company may be unable to proactively address these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures.. In addition, the Company outsources a majority of its data processing to certain third-party providers. If these third-party providers encounter difficulties, or if the Company has difficulty communicating with them, the Company's ability to adequately process and account for transactions could be affected, and its business operations could be adversely affected. Threats to information security also exist in the processing of customer information through various other vendors and their personnel.. 29. Table of Contents. The occurrence of any system failures, interruption, or breach of security could damage our reputation and result in a loss of customers and business thereby subjecting us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or could expose us to litigation and possible financial liability. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Negative public opinion could damage the Company's reputation and adversely impact its business and revenues.. As a financial institution, the Bank's earnings and capital are subject to risks associated with negative public opinion.  Negative public opinion could result from the Company's actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, the failure of any product or service sold by the Bank to meet customers' expectations or applicable regulatory requirements, corporate governance and acquisitions, or from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities.  Negative public opinion can adversely affect the Company's ability to attract and retain clients and can expose the Company to litigation and regulatory action.  Negative public opinion could also affect the Company's credit ratings, which are important to its access to unsecured wholesale borrowings. Significant changes in these ratings could change the cost and availability of these sources of funding.. The trading volume in the Common Stock is less than that of other larger financial services companies.. Although the Common Stock is listed for trading on the Nasdaq National Exchange, the trading volume in its Common Stock is less than that of other, larger financial services companies. This means that the Common Stock has less liquidity than the average trading market for many other publicly traded companies. Thinly traded stocks can be more volatile than stock trading in an active public market. General market declines or market volatility in the future, especially in the financial institutions sector of the economy, could adversely affect the price of the Common Stock, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices. Accordingly, stockholders may not be able to sell their shares of Common Stock at the volume, prices or times that they desire.. The Holding Company may reduce or eliminate dividends on its Common Stock in the future.. Although the Holding Company has historically declared cash dividends on its Common Stock, it is not required to do so and may reduce or eliminate its Common Stock dividend in the future. In addition, the Holding Company is a savings and loan holding company, and its ability to declare and pay dividends is dependent on certain federal regulatory considerations, including the guidelines of the Federal Reserve Board regarding capital adequacy and dividends. A reduction or elimination of dividend payments could adversely affect the market price of the Common Stock."
