[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors.. This Item 1A includes forward-looking statements. You should refer to our discussion of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements included in Item 7.. The occurrence of any of the events discussed in the following risk factors may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, which may materially adversely affect the value of our common stock.  It is not possible to identify or predict all risk factors.  There may be risks and uncertainties that are not currently known or that are currently deemed by us to be immaterial.  These other risks and uncertainties may also impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business is affected by general economic conditions that are largely out of our control.  Our business is dependent to a significant extent on national, regional and local economic conditions, and, to a lesser extent, on global economic conditions, particularly those conditions affecting the demographics of the guests that frequently patronize Applebee's or IHOP. 12. restaurants. If our customers' disposable income available for discretionary spending is reduced (because of circumstances such as job losses, credit constraints, higher housing costs, changes to tax regulations, energy costs, interest rates or other costs) or if the perceived wealth of customers decreases (because of circumstances such as lower residential real estate values, increased foreclosure rates, changes to tax regulations or other economic disruptions), our business could experience a decline in sales and/or customer traffic as potential customers choose lower-cost alternatives (such as quick-service restaurants) or other alternatives to dining out. Additionally, negative trends in the availability of credit and in expenses such as interest rates and the cost of construction materials could affect our franchisees' ability to maintain and remodel existing restaurants. Any decreases in customer traffic or average customer check due to these or other reasons could reduce gross sales at franchise restaurants, resulting in lower royalty and other payments from franchisees. This could reduce the profitability of franchise restaurants, potentially impacting the ability of franchisees to make royalty payments owed to us when due and negatively impacting franchisees' ability to develop new restaurants as may be required in their respective development agreements.. Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our debt.  As of December 31, 2017, certain of our indirect, wholly-owned subsidiaries had approximately $1.3 billion of long-term debt.  In addition, we had approximately $0.1 billion in financing and capital lease obligations as of December 31, 2017.  Our level of indebtedness and the financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness could have important consequences to our financial health.  For example, it could:. • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt or refinance any of our debt on attractive terms, commercially reasonable terms, or at all;. • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions or a downturn in our business;. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to debt service, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to pay dividends to our stockholders, repurchase shares of our common stock, fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes;. • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;. • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that are not as highly leveraged;. • limit our ability to borrow additional funds;. • prevent us from taking actions that we believe would be in the best interest of our business and make it difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy; and. • result in an event of default if we fail to satisfy our obligations under our debt or fail to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in our debt documents, which event of default could result in all of our debt becoming immediately due and payable and could permit certain of our lenders to foreclose on our assets securing such debt.. In addition, we may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could increase.. The terms of the securitized debt issued by certain of our indirect, wholly-owned subsidiaries have restrictive terms and the failure to comply with such restrictive terms could put us in default, which would have an adverse effect on our business and prospects. Unless and until we repay all outstanding borrowings under our securitized debt, we will remain subject to the restrictive terms of the securitized debt issued by certain of our indirect, wholly-owned subsidiaries.  For example, the indenture entered into by such subsidiaries in connection with the securitized debt contains covenants that limit the ability of certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries to, among other things: sell assets; alter the business conducted by such subsidiaries; engage in mergers or acquisitions; declare dividends or redeem or purchase certain equity interests; incur, assume or permit to exist additional indebtedness or guarantees; make loans and investments; incur liens; and enter into transactions with affiliates other than on an arms-length basis.  These covenants are applicable only to the securitization subsidiaries and do not apply to any of Dine Brands Global, Inc., International House of Pancakes, LLC, Applebee's International, Inc. or DineEquity International, Inc. as these entities are not a party to the indenture.  A breach of a covenant could result in a rapid amortization event or default under the securitized debt.. Further, the securitized debt also includes limitations on our ability to incur additional indebtedness and contains a number of financial performance measures that must be met to avoid a possible rapid amortization event or event of default.  The most significant of these measures include a minimum debt service coverage ratio and minimum domestic franchise system sales.  The ability to meet these financial performance measures can be affected by events beyond our control and there can be no assurance that we will satisfy these financial measures.. 13. If amounts owed under the securitized debt are accelerated because of a default and we are unable to pay such amounts, the investors may have the right to assume control of substantially all of the securitized assets, which consist of substantially all of our domestic revenue-generating assets and domestic intellectual property.. During the seven-year term following issuance, the outstanding fixed-rate senior notes will accrue interest at a rate of 4.277% per year. Additionally, the fixed-rate senior notes have scheduled quarterly principal amortization payments of $3.25 million. If we maintain a leverage ratio of less than or equal to 5.25x total debt to adjusted EBITDA (See Exhibit 12.1), we may elect to not make the scheduled principal payments. From time to time, our leverage ratio has exceeded the 5.25x total debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio and we have made the required scheduled principal payments.  If we are unable to refinance or repay amounts under the securitized debt prior to the expiration of the seven-year term, our cash flow would be directed to the repayment of the securitized debt and, other than a weekly management fee sufficient to cover minimal selling, general and administrative expenses, would not be available for operating our business.. In the event that a rapid amortization event occurs under the indenture (including, without limitation, upon an event of default under the indenture or the failure to repay the securitized debt at the end of the seven-year term), the funds available to us would be reduced or eliminated, which would in turn reduce our ability to operate or grow our business.. Our ability to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness or obtain additional financing depends on many factors beyond our control. No assurance can be given that any refinancing or additional financing will be possible when needed or that we will be able to negotiate acceptable terms. In addition, our access to capital is affected by prevailing conditions in the financial and capital markets and other factors beyond our control. There can be no assurance that market conditions will be favorable at the times that we require new or additional financing. Further, changes by any rating agency to our credit rating may negatively impact the value and liquidity of both our debt and equity securities, as well as the potential costs associated with refinancing our debt.  Downgrades in our credit ratings could also affect the terms of any such financing and restrict our ability to obtain additional financing in the future.. We are heavily dependent on information technology and any material failure of that technology could impair our ability to effectively and efficiently operate our business.  We rely heavily on information technology systems across our operations, including point-of-sale processing in our franchisees' restaurants, management of our supply chain, collection of cash, payment of obligations and various other processes and procedures. Our ability to effectively and efficiently manage our business depends significantly on the reliability and capacity of these systems. The failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with maintenance, upgrades or transitions to replacement systems, inaccurate or fraudulent manipulation of sales reporting from our restaurants resulting in loss of sales and royalty payments, or a breach in security of these systems could be harmful and cause delays in customer service, reduce efficiency in our operations and negatively impact our business. Significant capital investment might be required to remediate any problems.. In addition, we outsource certain essential technology-based business processes to third-party vendors and we may share sensitive financial and other information with third party vendors which subjects us to risks, including disruptions in business, increased costs and exposure to data breaches or privacy law compliance issues of our third-party vendors.. The occurrence of cyber incidents, or a deficiency in our cybersecurity, could negatively impact our business by causing a disruption to our operations, a compromise or corruption of our confidential information, and/or damage to our employee and business relationships, all of which could subject us to loss and harm our brands.  A cyber incident is considered to be any adverse event that threatens the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of our information resources.  More specifically, a cyber incident is an intentional attack or an unintentional event that can include gaining unauthorized access to systems to disrupt operations, corrupt data, or steal confidential information about our customers, franchisees, vendors and employees. As our reliance on technology has increased, so have the risks posed to our systems, both internal and those that we have outsourced.  Primary adverse events that could directly result from the occurrence of a cyber incident include (i) exposure of confidential data about our customers, franchisees, vendors and employees, (ii) damage to the reputation of our brands (iii) damage to our relationship with our franchisees and (iv) interruption of our business.. As a merchant and service provider of point of sale related services, we are subject to the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (\"PCI DSS\"), issued by the Payment Card Industry Council.  PCI DSS contains compliance guidelines and standards with regard to our security surrounding the physical and electronic storage, processing and transmission of individual cardholder data.  Despite our cybersecurity measures and our efforts to comply with PCI DSS guidelines, we cannot be certain that all of our information technology systems are able to prevent, contain or detect any cyber-attacks or security breaches from known malware or malware that may be developed in the future.. 14. Our use of personally identifiable information is regulated by international, federal and state laws, as well as by certain third-party agreements.  If our security and information systems are compromised or if our employees or franchisees fail to comply with these laws and regulations, and this information is obtained by unauthorized persons or used inappropriately, it could adversely affect our reputation and could disrupt our operations and result in costly litigation, judgments, or penalties resulting from violation of federal and state laws and payment card industry regulations.  As privacy and information security laws and regulations change, we may incur additional costs to ensure that we remain in compliance with those laws and regulations.. Restaurant development plans under development agreements may not be implemented effectively and developed restaurants may not achieve desired results. We rely on franchisees to develop Applebee's and IHOP restaurants. From time to time, our franchisees have failed to fulfill their commitments to build new restaurants in the numbers and within the timeframes required by their development agreements, and we expect that this will continue to varying degrees in the future. Restaurant development and the success of restaurants opened by our franchisees involve substantial risks, including the following:. • the demand for Applebee's and IHOP restaurants and the selection of appropriate franchisee candidates;. • costs of construction, permit issuance and regulatory compliance;. • the availability of suitable locations and terms for potential development sites, including lease or purchase terms for new locations;. • the availability of financing, at acceptable rates and terms, to both franchisees and third-party landlords, for restaurant development and/or implementation of our business strategy through new remodel programs and other operational changes;. • delays in obtaining construction permits and in completion of construction;. • competition for suitable development sites;. • changes in governmental rules, regulations, and interpretations (including interpretations of the requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act); and. • general economic and business conditions.. Additionally, developed restaurants may not achieve desired revenue or cash flow levels once opened. This could result in restaurant closures, which may be significant in number, and may cause our royalty revenues and financial performance to decline.  The inability to open new restaurants that achieve and sustain acceptable sales volumes and/or the closure of existing restaurants that do not achieve or sustain acceptable sales volumes, which if significant in number, may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.. Both of our brands are fully franchised which means restaurants are owned and operated by our franchisees. As a result, we are highly dependent upon our franchisees. All Applebee's and IHOP restaurants are owned and operated by our franchisees.  Our dependence on franchisees could adversely affect us, our brands, and our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our financial results are significantly contingent upon the performance of our franchise restaurants because we derive a substantial portion of our revenues from royalties. Worsening economic conditions and declining trends in sales, traffic and/or average check could impact the performance of our franchise restaurants, resulting in lower royalty, advertising fund and other payments from franchisees.  If declining conditions persist, franchisee profitability and financial health may worsen and franchisees may suffer from financial, personal or other difficulties, including insolvency. Franchisees may also experience financial risks unrelated to the operation of restaurants under our brands, such as a decline in performance of other brands or businesses held by franchisees. Additionally, lenders to our franchisees may be less likely to provide current or prospective franchisees necessary financing on favorable terms, or at all, due to market conditions and our or our franchisees' operating results.  These and other factors could impact franchisees' ability to make royalty and other payments owed to us when due and franchisees could default on their financial obligations to us.  A decrease in franchisee profitability as well as other reasons could also cause franchisees' failure or inability to meet new restaurant development obligations and other obligations such as maintenance or remodel requirements and rent obligations for certain leases on which we retain contingent liability.. Additionally, our franchise agreements have expiration dates.  Upon expiration, franchisees are required to enter into new franchise agreements in order to extend the franchise relationship.  We or the franchisee may or may not elect to enter into these successor franchise agreements based on a number of factors, including a failure to meet our criteria, lack of interest by either party and/or the inability of franchisees to enter into successor franchise agreements.  It is expected that, in the ordinary course of business, some franchise agreements will expire without successor franchise agreements.  However, a substantial number of franchise agreements are set to expire in 2020 and 2021 for Applebee's and 2024 through 2028 for IHOP, and we cannot ensure that we and/or our franchisees will enter into successor franchise agreements once current terms expire.  This may result in reduced royalties and other payments due to a decrease in the number of restaurants operating under our brands.. 15. As independent third parties, franchisees own, operate and oversee the daily operations of their restaurants and their employees are not our employees.  Accordingly, we do not control their actions.  While our franchise agreements are designed to maintain brand consistency, having all franchise operated restaurants may expose us to risks not otherwise encountered if we maintained ownership and control of the restaurants.  Franchisees may breach the terms of their franchise agreements in a manner that adversely affects our brands, such as failing to operate restaurants in accordance with our required standards, and we may be limited in our ability to enforce franchise obligations.  Franchisees are required to conform to specified product quality standards and other requirements pursuant to their franchise agreements in order to protect our brands and to optimize restaurant performance. If franchisees do not successfully operate their restaurants in a manner consistent with our standards, or customers have negative experiences due to issues with food quality or operational execution, our reputation and brands could suffer, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business. The quality of franchisees' operations may also be diminished by factors beyond our control, including a lack of investment in enhancing or maintaining acceptable standards for restaurant operations due to financial and other constraints.  Franchisees may also fail or be unable to hire or retain qualified managers and other personnel and training of managers and other personnel may be inadequate. These and other such negative factors could reduce franchisees' restaurant revenues, impact payments to us under the franchise agreements and could have a material adverse effect on us.. Various other risks associated with the operation of a fully franchised business model that may have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition include:. • inability or unwillingness of franchisees to participate in implementing changes or to participate in business strategy changes;. • inability or unwillingness of franchisees to support our marketing programs and strategic initiatives;. • inability of franchisees to participate in business strategy changes due to financial constraints;. • failure of franchisees to report sales information accurately;. • greater proportional impact of general and administrative expenses on our business and financial condition; and. • inability to retain franchisees in the future, both in terms of number and quality, and inability to attract, retain and motivate sufficient numbers of franchisees of the same caliber, including top performing franchisees.. While we try to maintain positive working relationships with our franchisees, the nature of the franchisor-franchisee relationship inherently subjects us to potential disagreements with our franchisees on matters pertaining to the business and/or our brands.  From time to time, we have experienced, and we may continue to experience, poor franchise relations caused by the efforts of one or more of our larger franchisees or an organized franchise association.. Concentration of Applebee's franchised restaurants in a limited number of franchisees subjects us to greater risk.  As of December 31, 2017, Applebee's franchisees operated 1,782 Applebee's restaurants in the United States. Of those restaurants, the ten largest Applebee's franchisees owned 1,284 restaurants, representing 72% of all franchised Applebee's restaurants in the United States.  The largest Applebee's franchisee owned 475 restaurants, representing 27% of all franchised Applebee's restaurants in the United States. The concentration of franchised restaurants in a limited number of franchisees subjects us to a potentially higher level of risk with respect to such franchisees because their obligations to us, including financial obligations, are greater as compared to those franchisees with fewer restaurants. The risk associated with these franchisees is also greater where franchisees are the sole or dominant franchisee for a particular region of the United States, as is the case for most domestic Applebee's franchised territories. In particular, if any of these franchisees experience financial or other difficulties, the franchisee may default on its obligations under multiple franchise agreements including payments to us and the maintenance and improvement of its restaurants. From time to time, we may work with our franchisees who are experiencing financial difficulties to assess and address their financial health and their ability to satisfy their financial obligations to us.  In certain of these situations, we may agree to alternative arrangements with franchisees for the payment of amounts due to us under our franchise and other agreements.  We cannot assure you that these arrangements will be successful nor can we assure you that they will result in us receiving all or any of the amounts due to us under our franchise and other agreements. Any franchisee that is experiencing financial difficulties may also be unable to participate in implementing changes to our business strategy. Any franchisee that owns and operates a significant number of Applebee's restaurants and fails to comply with other obligations under the franchise agreement, such as those relating to the quality and preparation of food and maintenance of restaurants, could cause significant harm to the Applebee's brand and subject us to claims by consumers even if we are not legally liable for the franchisee's actions or failure to act. Development rights for Applebee's restaurants are also concentrated among a limited number of existing franchisees. If any of these existing franchisees experience financial difficulties, future development of Applebee's restaurants may be materially adversely affected.. An insolvency or bankruptcy proceeding involving a franchisee could prevent the collection of payments or the exercise of rights under the related franchise agreement.  An insolvency proceeding involving a franchisee could prevent us from collecting payments or exercising any of our other rights under the related franchise agreement. If a franchisee is subject to. 16. bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings, a bankruptcy court may prevent the termination of the related franchise and development agreement. In particular, the protection of the statutory automatic stay that arises under Section 362 of the United States Bankruptcy Code upon the commencement of a bankruptcy proceeding by or against a franchisee would prohibit us from terminating a franchise agreement previously entered into with a franchisee. Furthermore, a franchisee that is subject to bankruptcy proceedings may reject the franchise agreement in which case we would be limited to a general unsecured claim against the franchisee's bankruptcy estate on account of breach-of-contract damages arising from the rejection. Payments previously made to us by a franchisee that is subject to a bankruptcy proceeding also may be recoverable from us on behalf of the franchisee as a preferential transfer under the United States Bankruptcy Code.. We are subject to credit risk from our IHOP franchisees operating under our Previous IHOP Business Model, and a default by these franchisees may negatively affect our cash flows.  Of the 1,519 IHOP domestic franchise restaurants as of December 31, 2017, slightly less than half operate under the Previous IHOP Business Model. The Company was involved in all aspects of the development and financing of the IHOP restaurants established prior to 2003. Under the Previous IHOP Business Model, the Company typically identified and leased or purchased the restaurant sites, built and equipped the restaurants and then franchised them to franchisees. In addition, IHOP typically financed as much as 80% of the franchise fee for periods ranging from five to eight years and leased the restaurant and equipment to the franchisee over a 25-year period. Therefore, in addition to franchise fees and royalties, the revenues received from an IHOP franchisee operating under the Previous IHOP Business Model may include, among other things, lease or sublease rents for the restaurant property building, rent under an equipment lease and interest income from the financing arrangements for the unpaid portion of the franchise fee under the franchise notes. If any of these IHOP franchisees were to default on their payment obligations to us, we may be unable to collect the amounts owed under the building property lease/sublease agreement and our notes and equipment contract receivables, as well as outstanding franchise royalties. The additional amounts owed to us by each of these IHOP franchisees subject us to greater credit risk and defaults by IHOP franchisees operating under our Previous IHOP Business Model and may negatively affect our cash flows.. Franchisees are subject to potential losses that are not covered by insurance that may negatively impact their ability to make payments to us and perform other obligations under franchise agreements. Franchisees may have insufficient insurance coverage to cover all of the potential risks associated with the ownership and operation of their restaurants. A franchisee may have insufficient funds to cover future unanticipated increases in insurance premiums or losses that are not covered by insurance. Certain extraordinary hazards may not be insurable and insurance may not be available (or may be available only at prohibitively expensive rates) with respect to many other risks. Moreover, there is no assurance that any loss incurred will not exceed the limits on the policies obtained, or that claim payments on such policies will be received on a timely basis, or even if obtained on a timely basis, that such payments will prevent losses to such franchisee or enable timely franchise payments. Accordingly, in cases in which a franchisee experiences increased insurance premiums or must pay claims out-of-pocket, the franchisee may not have the funds necessary to make franchise and other payments to us.. If franchisees and other licensees do not observe the required quality and trademark usage standards, our brands may suffer reputational damage, which could in turn adversely affect our business.   We license our intellectual property to our franchisees, product suppliers, manufacturers, distributors, advertisers and other third parties. The franchise agreements and other license agreements require that each franchisee or other licensee use our intellectual property in accordance with established or approved quality control guidelines. However, there can be no assurance that the franchisees or other licensees will use the intellectual property assets in accordance with such guidelines. Franchisee and licensee noncompliance with the terms and conditions of the governing franchise agreement or other license agreement may reduce the overall goodwill associated with our brands. Franchisees and other licensees may refer to our intellectual property improperly in communications, resulting in the weakening of the distinctiveness of our intellectual property. There can be no assurance that the franchisees or other licensees will not take actions that could have a material adverse effect on the Applebee's or IHOP intellectual property.. In addition, even if the licensee product suppliers, manufacturers, distributors, or advertisers observe and maintain the quality and integrity of our intellectual property assets in accordance with the relevant license agreement, any product manufactured by such suppliers may be subject to regulatory sanctions and other actions by third parties which can, in turn, negatively impact the perceived quality of our restaurants and the overall goodwill of our brands, regardless of the nature and type of product involved. Any such sanctions or actions could reduce restaurant revenues and corresponding franchise payments to us.. Our performance is subject to risks associated with the restaurant industry, including the highly competitive nature of the industry.  We derive a substantial portion of our revenues in the form of royalties based on a percentage of the gross sales of our franchised restaurants.  Sales and profitability of these restaurants and, in turn, payments we receive from our. 17. franchisees may be negatively impacted by a number of factors associated with operating in the restaurant industry, some of which are outside of our control. These factors include:. • changes in consumer behavior driven by macro-level shifts in retail, technology, media, e-commerce, global safety and demography which may impact where, when, whether and how often customers visit full-service restaurants;. • declines in comparable restaurant sales growth rates due to: (i) failure to meet or adequately adapt to changing customer expectations for food type, quality and taste, or to innovate and develop new menu items to retain existing customers and attract new customers; (ii) competitive intrusions in our markets, including competitive pricing initiatives and daypart expansion by competitors; (iii) opening new restaurants that cannibalize the sales of existing restaurants; (iv) failure of national or local marketing to be effective; and (v) natural or man-made disasters or adverse weather conditions;. • negative trends in operating expenses such as: (i) increases in food and other commodity costs; (ii) increases in labor costs due to minimum wage and other employment laws or regulations, immigration reform, the potential impact of union organizing efforts and tight labor market conditions; and (iii) increases in other operating costs including advertising, utilities, lease-related expenses and credit card processing fees;. • the highly competitive nature of the restaurant and related industries with respect to, among other things: (i) price, service, location, personnel and the type and quality of food; (ii) the trend toward convergence in grocery, deli, retail and restaurant services, as well as the continued expansion of restaurants into the breakfast daypart; (iii) the entry of major market players in non-competing industries into the food services market; (iv) the decline in the price of groceries which may increase the attractiveness of dining at home versus dining out; and (v) the emergence of new or improved technologies such as mobile or online ordering, delivery and consumer behavior facilitated by such technology;. • the inability to increase menu pricing to offset increased operating expenses; and. • failure to effectively manage further penetration into mature markets.. Factors outside our control may harm our brands' reputations.  The success of our business is largely dependent upon brand recognition and the strength of our franchise systems.  Our and our franchisees' continued success is directly dependent upon maintaining a favorable public view of the Applebee's and IHOP brands. Negative publicity (e.g., crime, scandal, litigation, on-site accidents and injuries or other harm to customers and food-borne illness) at a single Applebee's or IHOP location can have a substantial negative impact on all restaurants within the Applebee's or IHOP system. Multi-unit food service businesses such as ours can be materially and adversely affected by widespread negative publicity of any type, but particularly regarding food quality, food-borne illness, food tampering or preparation, obesity, injury or other health concerns with respect to certain foods and actions of franchisee managers or employees, regardless of whether such claims are accurate or valid.. The risk of food-borne illness or food tampering cannot be completely eliminated. Any outbreak of food-borne illness or other food-related incidents attributed to Applebee's or IHOP restaurants or within the food service industry or any widespread negative publicity regarding the Applebee's or IHOP brands or the restaurant industry in general could harm our reputation.  Even where such food-related incidents occur solely at restaurants of our competitors or within the industry, our business could be adversely affected as a result of negative publicity about the restaurant industry generally. Franchisees may produce or receive through the supply chain sub-standard or non-compliant food or beverage products. Failure of franchisees to comply with food quality and preparation requirements may subject us to potential losses even when we are not legally liable for a franchisee's actions or failure to act. Although the Company maintains liability insurance, and each franchisee is required to maintain liability insurance pursuant to its franchise agreements, a liability claim could injure the reputation of all Applebee's or IHOP restaurants, whether or not it is ultimately successful.. Declines in our financial performance have resulted in and could result in future impairment charges.   United States generally accepted accounting principles (\"U.S. GAAP\") require annual (or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances warrant) impairment tests of goodwill, intangible assets and other long-lived assets. Generally speaking, if the carrying value of the asset is in excess of the estimated fair value of the asset, the carrying value will be adjusted to fair value through an impairment charge. Fair values of goodwill and intangible assets are primarily estimated using discounted cash flows based on five-year forecasts of financial results that incorporate assumptions including, among other things, same-restaurant sales trends, future development plans, brand-enhancing initiatives, restaurant closures and an appropriate discount rate. Fair values of long-lived tangible assets are primarily estimated using discounted cash flows over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Significant underachievement of forecasted results or changes in the discount rate assumption could reduce the estimated fair value of these assets below the carrying value, requiring non-cash impairment charges to reduce the carrying value of the asset. As a result of performing an interim quantitative impairment test in the third quarter of 2017, we recognized an impairment of Applebee's goodwill of $358.2 million and an impairment of Applebee's tradename of $173.4 million. As of. 18. December 31, 2017, our total stockholders' deficit was $146.7 million. Any additional significant impairment write-down of goodwill, intangible assets or long-lived assets in the future could increase the stockholders' deficit. While such a deficit balance does not create an event of default in any of our contractual agreements, the negative perception of such a deficit could have an adverse effect on our stock price and could impair our ability to obtain new financing, or refinance existing indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all.. Comprehensive tax reform legislation could adversely affect our business and financial condition.  On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was signed into law (the \"Tax Act\").  The Tax Act introduced significant changes to the tax code.  We continue to examine the impact the Tax Act may have on our business.  Notwithstanding the reduction in the federal corporate income tax rate as a result of the Tax Act, the overall impact of the Tax Act is uncertain and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected.. Many factors, including those over which we have no control, affect the trading volatility and price of our stock.  Many factors, in addition to our operating results, may have an impact on the trading volatility and price of our common stock.  These factors include general economic and market conditions, publicity regarding us, our competitors, or the restaurant industry generally, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts, changes in financial or tax reporting and accounting principles or practices, trading activity in our common stock, and the impact of our capital allocation initiatives, including any future stock repurchase programs or dividend declarations.  A number of these factors are outside of our control, and any failure to meet market expectations whether for sales growth, earnings per share or other metrics could cause our share price to decline.. Our actual operating and financial results in any given period may differ from guidance we provide to the public, including our most recent public guidance.   From time to time, in press releases, SEC filings, public conference calls and other contexts, we have provided guidance to the public regarding current business conditions and our expectations for our future financial results. We expect that we will provide guidance periodically in the future. Our guidance is based upon a number of assumptions, expectations and estimates that are inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. In providing our guidance, we also make various assumptions with respect to our future business decisions, some of which will change. Our actual financial results, therefore, may vary from our guidance due to our inability to meet the assumptions upon which our guidance is based and the impact on our business of the various risks and uncertainties described in these risk factors and in our public filings with the SEC. Variances between our actual results and our guidance may be material. To the extent that our actual financial results do not meet or exceed our guidance, the trading prices of our securities may be materially adversely affected.. Our business strategy may not achieve anticipated results.  We expect to continue to apply a business strategy that includes: (i) operation of a fully franchised restaurant system; (ii) the maintenance of a purchasing cooperative that procures products and services for our Applebee's and IHOP restaurants; (iii) the possible introduction or acquisition of new restaurant concepts; and (iv) dedicated brand resources for key functions such as marketing, consumer insights and operations and a shared service model for certain other functions such as legal, technology and human resources. There can be no assurance that the business strategy we apply to one franchise system will be suitable or will achieve results similar to the application of such business strategy to the other franchise system.  In addition, our operational improvement, purchasing and other strategic initiatives may not be successful or achieve the desired results. In particular, there can be no assurance that the existing franchisees or prospective new franchisees will respond favorably to such initiatives.. A lack of availability of suitable locations for new restaurants or a decline in the quality of the locations of our current restaurants may adversely affect our sales and results of operations.  The success of our brands depends in large part on restaurant locations. As demographic and economic patterns change, current locations may not continue to be attractive or profitable.  Potential declines in neighborhoods where restaurants are located or adverse economic conditions in areas surrounding those neighborhoods could result in reduced sales in those locations.  In addition, desirable locations for new restaurant openings or for the relocation of existing restaurants may not be available at an acceptable cost when we identify a particular opportunity for a new restaurant or relocation.  Additionally, restaurant revitalization initiatives may not be completed as and when projected and may not produce the results we expect.  We may also be unable to operate effectively in new and/or highly competitive geographic regions or local markets in which our franchisees have limited operating experience.. We may experience shortages or interruptions in the supply or delivery of food and other products from third parties or in the availability of utilities. Our franchised restaurants are dependent on frequent deliveries of fresh produce, food, beverages and other products. Shortages or interruptions in food and beverage supplies may result from a variety of causes, including shortages due to adverse weather, labor unrest, political unrest, terrorism, outbreaks of food-borne illness, disruption of operation of production facilities, financial difficulties (including bankruptcy) of our suppliers or other unforeseen circumstances. Such shortages could adversely affect our revenue and profits. The inability to secure adequate and reliable supplies or distribution of food and beverage products could limit our ability to make changes to our core menus or offer. 19. promotional \"limited time only\" menu items, which may limit our ability to implement our business strategies. Our franchisees' restaurants bear risks associated with the timeliness of deliveries by suppliers and distributors as well as the solvency, reputation, labor relationships, freight rates, prices of raw materials and health and safety standards of each supplier and distributor. Other significant risks associated with our suppliers and distributors include improper handling of food and beverage products and/or the adulteration or contamination of such food and beverage products. Disruptions in our relationships with suppliers and distributors may reduce the payments we receive from our franchisees or our pancake and waffle dry mix distributors. In addition, interruptions to the availability of gas, electric, water or other utilities may adversely affect the operations of our franchised restaurants.. Any inability to effectively manage or forecast appropriate inventory levels may adversely affect our business.  Effective management of inventory levels depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to changing consumer demand and preferences.  From time to time, we may carry excessive inventory resulting from menu events that vary from forecasted demand which may result in financial loss to us and/or to our franchisees.  Conversely, if we underestimate demand, we may experience inventory shortages which may result in lost revenues.. A failure to develop and implement innovative marketing and guest relationship initiatives, ineffective or improper use of social media or other marketing initiatives and increased advertising and marketing costs could adversely affect our business results.  If our competitors increase their spending on advertising and promotions, if our advertising, media or marketing expenses increase, or if our advertising and promotions become less effective than those of our competitors, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business results. A failure to sufficiently innovate, develop guest relationship initiatives, or maintain adequate and effective advertising could inhibit our ability to maintain brand relevance and drive increased sales.. As part of our marketing efforts, we rely on search engine marketing and social media platforms to attract and retain guests. These efforts may not be successful, resulting in expenses incurred without the benefit of higher revenues or increased employee engagement.  In addition, a variety of risks are associated with the use of social media, including the improper disclosure of proprietary information, posting of negative comments about our brands, exposure of personally identifiable information, fraud, and use of outdated information. The inappropriate or otherwise harmful use of social media vehicles by our franchisees and their employees, guests, our employees or others in the general public could increase our costs, lead to litigation or result in negative publicity that could damage our reputation.. Changing health or dietary preferences may cause consumers to avoid Applebee's and IHOP restaurants in favor of alternative options.  The food service industry as a whole rests on consumer preferences and demographic trends at the local, regional, national and international levels. New information regarding diet, nutrition and health may impact consumer eating habits. Franchise development and system-wide sales depend on the sustained demand for our products, which may be affected by factors we do not control. Various factors such as: (i) the Food and Drug Administration's menu labeling rules, (ii) nutritional guidelines issued by the United States Department of Agriculture and issuance of similar guidelines or statistical information by state or local municipalities, or (iii) academic studies, may impact consumer choice and cause consumers to select foods other than those that are offered by Applebee's or IHOP restaurants.  We may not be able to adequately adapt Applebee's or IHOP restaurants' menu offerings to keep pace with developments in consumer preferences, which may result in reduced royalty revenues from a decline in demand for our food and fewer guests visiting Applebee's and IHOP restaurants.. We face a variety of risks associated with doing business in international markets.  Our expansion into and continued operations in international markets could create risks to our brands and reputation.  There is no assurance that our international operations will be profitable or that international growth will continue. Our international operations are subject to all of the same risks associated with our domestic operations, as well as a number of additional risks. These include, among other things, international economic and political conditions, international currency fluctuations, terrorism, global travel risks and differing cultures and consumer preferences.. We also are subject to governmental regulations throughout the world that impact the way we do business with our international franchisees and vendors. These include antitrust and tax requirements, import/export/customs regulations, anti-boycott regulations, other international trade regulations, the USA Patriot Act and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Failure to comply with any such legal requirements could subject us to monetary liabilities and other sanctions, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We may be subject to litigation and other legal proceedings that could be time consuming, require significant amounts of management time and result in the diversion of significant operational resources. We are involved in lawsuits, claims and proceedings incident to the ordinary course of our business. Litigation is inherently unpredictable. Any claims against us,. 20. whether meritorious or not, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, require significant amounts of management time and result in the diversion of significant operational resources. There have been a growing number of lawsuits in recent years. There has also been a rise in employment-related lawsuits. From time to time, we have been subject to these types of lawsuits. The cost of defending claims against us or the ultimate resolution of such claims may harm our business and operating results. In addition, the increasingly regulated business environment may result in a greater number of enforcement actions and private litigation. This could subject us to increased exposure to stockholder lawsuits.. Our franchisees are subject to complaints or litigation from guests alleging illness, injury or other food quality, food safety, health or operational concerns as well as claims related to the Americans with Disabilities Act and other premises liability. Our franchisees are also subject to \"dram shop\" laws in some states pursuant to which our franchisees may be subject to liability in connection with personal injuries or property damages incurred in connection with wrongfully serving alcoholic beverages to an intoxicated person. Although our franchise agreements require our franchisees to defend and indemnify us, we may be named as a defendant and sustain liability in legal proceedings against franchisees under the doctrines of vicarious liability, agency, negligence or otherwise. Claims against our franchisees may reduce the ability of our franchisees to make payments to us. We may also initiate legal proceedings against franchisees for breach of the terms of their franchise agreements, including underreporting of sales, failure to operate restaurants according to standard operating procedures and payment defaults. These claims may also reduce the ability of franchisees to enter into new franchise agreements with us.. Third-party claims with respect to intellectual property assets, if decided against us, may result in competing uses or require adoption of new, non-infringing intellectual property, which may in turn adversely affect sales and revenues.  We regard our service marks and trademarks related to our restaurant businesses as having significant value and being important to our marketing efforts.  To protect our brands from infringement, we rely on contracts, copyrights, patents, trademarks, service marks and other common law rights, such as trade secret and unfair competition laws.  We have registered certain trademarks and service marks in the United States and international jurisdictions; however, effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which we have or intend to open or franchise a restaurant.  Although we believe we have taken appropriate measures to protect our intellectual property, there can be no assurance that these protections will be adequate.. In addition, there can be no assurance that third parties will not assert infringement or misappropriation claims against us, or assert claims that our rights in our trademarks, service marks and other intellectual property assets are invalid or unenforceable. Any such claims could have a material adverse effect on us or our franchisees if such claims were to be decided against us. If our rights in any intellectual property were invalidated or deemed unenforceable, it could permit competing uses of intellectual property which, in turn, could lead to a decline in restaurant revenues and sales of other branded products and services (if any). If the intellectual property became subject to third-party infringement, misappropriation or other claims, and such claims were decided against us, we may be forced to pay damages, be required to develop or adopt non-infringing intellectual property or be obligated to acquire a license to the intellectual property that is the subject of the asserted claim. There could be significant expenses associated with the defense of any infringement, misappropriation, or other third-party claims.. Our business depends on our ability to attract and retain talented management and other key employees. Our business is based on successfully attracting and retaining talented employees. The market for highly skilled employees and leaders in our industry is extremely competitive. If we are less successful in our recruiting efforts, or if we are unable to retain management and other key employees, our ability to develop and deliver successful products and services may be adversely affected. Effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. Failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving management and other key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution.. Our failure or the failure of our franchisees to comply with federal, state and local governmental regulations may subject us to losses and harm our brands.  We are subject to the Fair Labor Standards Act (which governs such matters as minimum wage, overtime and other working conditions), along with the Americans with Disabilities Act (which provides civil rights protections to individuals with disabilities in the context of employment, public accommodations, and other areas), the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, various family leave mandates and a variety of other laws enacted, or rules and regulations promulgated by federal, state and local governmental authorities that govern these and other employment matters, including tip credits, working conditions, safety standards and immigration status. There have been several complaints alleging franchisors to be joint employers with franchisees. Although we do not consider ourselves to be joint employers with our franchisees, there can be no assurance that other franchisors will not receive similar complaints in the future which may result in legal proceedings based on the actions of its franchisees. We expect increases in payroll expenses as a result of federal and state mandated increases in the minimum wage, and although such increases are not expected to be material, we cannot assure you that there will not be material increases in the future. Enactment and enforcement of various federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations on immigration and labor organizations may adversely impact the availability and costs of labor in a. 21. particular area or across the United States. Other labor shortages or increased team member turnover could also increase labor costs. In addition, our vendors may be affected by higher minimum wage standards or availability of labor, which may increase the price of goods and services they supply to us. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act has impacted our franchisees' employee costs in some respects. There are no assurances that a combination of cost management and price increases can accommodate all of the costs associated with compliance.. We are subject to extensive federal, state and local governmental regulations, including those relating to food safety and inspection and the preparation and sale of food and alcoholic beverages.  Disruptions within any government agencies could impact the U.S. food industry, which may have an adverse effect on our business.  We are also subject to laws and regulations relating to building and zoning requirements. Each of our franchisees' restaurants is also subject to licensing and regulation by alcoholic beverage control, health, sanitation, safety and fire agencies in the state, county and/or municipality where the restaurant is located. We cannot assure you that our franchisees will not encounter material difficulties or failures, including with respect to obtaining and maintaining required licenses and approvals, which could impact the continuing operations of an existing restaurant, or delay or prevent the opening of a new restaurant.. In addition, we are subject to laws and regulations, which vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, relating to nutritional content and menu labeling. Compliance with these laws and regulations may lead to increased costs and operational complexity and may increase our exposure to governmental investigations or litigation. In connection with the continued operation or remodeling of certain restaurants, our franchisees may be required to expend funds to meet federal, state, local and international regulations. The inability to obtain or maintain such licenses or publicity resulting from actual or alleged violations of such laws could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. We are subject to federal regulation and certain foreign and state laws, including state laws that govern the offer and sale of franchises. Many state franchise laws contain provisions that supersede the terms of franchise agreements, including provisions concerning the termination or non-renewal of a franchise. Some state franchise laws require that certain materials be registered before franchises can be offered or sold in that state. The failure to obtain or retain licenses or approvals to sell franchises could adversely affect us and the franchisees. Changes in, and the cost of compliance with, government regulations could have a material effect on operations.. Finally, regulatory changes or actions under the current U.S. political administration may impact the laws or regulations described above. We cannot predict whether or when any of these potential changes in law might become effective in any jurisdiction nor the impact, if any, of these changes to our business.. We are subject to risks associated with self-insurance for medical, dental and vision benefits.  As of January 2017, we now self-insure all of our employee medical, dental and vision benefits. We maintain a per claim stop loss coverage but do not maintain coverage at an aggregate level.  Our reserves are based on historical loss trends that may not correlate to actual loss experience in the future.  If we experience an unexpectedly large number of claims that result in costs or liabilities in excess of our projections, our reserves may prove to be insufficient and we may be exposed to significant and unexpected losses.  For these and other reasons, including our inability to renew stop loss coverage at competitive rates, we are subject to risks associated with self-insurance that may have an adverse effect on the Corporation's financial condition and operating results.. In addition, access to personal medical information is regulated by federal, state and/or local laws as well as by certain third-party agreements.  If our security and information systems or the systems of our third-party vendors are compromised, we could be subject to costly litigation or penalties and our reputation and operations could be adversely affected.. Any inability or failure to execute on a comprehensive business continuity plan following a major natural disaster such as an earthquake, tornado, flood or man-made disaster, including terrorism or a cyber incident, at our corporate facilities could materially adversely impact our business.  Our corporate systems and processes and corporate support for our restaurant operations are handled primarily at our restaurant support center.  We have disaster recovery procedures and business continuity plans in place to address most events of a crisis nature, including earthquakes, tornadoes, floods and other natural or man-made disasters, and back up and off-site locations for recovery of electronic and other forms of data and information. However, if we are unable to fully implement our disaster recovery plans, we may experience delays in recovery of data, inability to perform vital corporate functions, tardiness in required reporting and compliance, failures to adequately support field operations and other breakdowns in normal communication and operating procedures that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operation and exposure to administrative and other legal claims.. Development initiatives outside our core business could negatively impact our brands. Our business expansion into non-traditional restaurant formats, including restaurants with a smaller footprint, restaurants located in non-traditional locations and retail product licensing for the IHOP brand could create new risks to our brand and reputation.. 22. Failure of our internal controls over financial reporting and future changes in accounting standards may cause adverse unexpected operating results, affect our reported results of operations or otherwise harm our business and financial results.  Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal controls over financial reporting. Internal controls over financial reporting is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting is not intended to provide absolute assurance that we would prevent or detect a misstatement of our financial statements or fraud. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud. A significant financial reporting failure or material weakness in internal control over financial reporting could cause a loss of investor confidence and decline in the market price of our common stock.. A change in accounting standards can have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions before the change is effective. New pronouncements and varying interpretations of pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing accounting rules or the questioning of current accounting practices may adversely affect our reported financial results. Additionally, our assumptions, estimates and judgments related to complex accounting matters could significantly affect our financial results. Generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by us. Changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments by us could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance."
