[1] "ITEM 1A. Risk Factors.. Investing in our securities involves risk. In addition to the other information contained in this report, you should consider the following risk factors before investing in our securities.. Risks Related to Our Business. There has been a shift in consumer behavior as a result of technological innovations and changes in the distribution of content, which may affect our viewership and the profitability of our business in unpredictable ways.. Technology and business models in our industry continue to evolve rapidly. Consumer behavior related to changes in content distribution and technological innovation affect our economic model and viewership in ways that are not entirely predictable.. 19. Consumers are increasingly viewing content on a time-delayed or on-demand basis from traditional distributors and from connected apps and websites and on a wide variety of screens, such as televisions, tablets, mobile phones and other devices. Additionally, devices that allow users to view television programs on a time-shifted basis and technologies that enable users to fast-forward or skip programming, including commercials, such as DVRs and portable digital devices and systems that enable users to store or make portable copies of content may affect the attractiveness of our offerings to advertisers and could therefore adversely affect our revenues. There is increased demand for short-form, user-generated and interactive content, which have different economic models than our traditional content offerings. Likewise, distributors are offering smaller programming packages known as \"skinny bundles,\" which are delivered at a lower cost than traditional offerings and sometimes allow consumers to create a customized package of networks, that are gaining popularity among consumers. If our networks are not included in these packages or consumers favor alternative offerings, we may experience a decline in viewership and ultimately the demand for our programming, which could lead to lower distribution and advertising revenues.  We have also seen declines in subscribers to the traditional cable bundle.  In 2017, total U.S. Networks portfolio subscribers declined 5% while subscribers to our fully distributed networks declined 3% for the same period. Each distribution model has different risks and economic consequences for us, so the rapid evolution of consumer preferences may have an economic impact that is not completely predictable. Distribution windows are also evolving, potentially affecting revenues from other windows. If we cannot ensure that our distribution methods and content are responsive to our target audiences, our business could be adversely affected.. Consolidation among cable and satellite providers, both domestically and internationally, could have an adverse effect on our revenue and profitability.. Consolidation among cable and satellite operators has given the largest operators considerable leverage in their relationships with programmers, including us. In the U.S., approximately 90% of our distribution revenues come from the top 10 distributors. For the International Networks segment, approximately 42% of distribution revenue comes from the 10 largest distributors. We currently have agreements in place with the major cable and satellite operators in U.S. Networks and International Networks which expire at various times through 2021. Some of our largest distributors have combined, and as a result, have gained, or may gain, market power, which could affect our ability to maximize the value of our content through those platforms. In addition, many of the countries and territories in which we distribute our networks also have a small number of dominant distributors. Continued consolidation within the industry could reduce the number of distributors to carry our programming, subject our affiliate fee revenue to greater volume discounts, and further increase the negotiating leverage of the cable and satellite television system operators which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. The success of our business depends on the acceptance of our entertainment content by our U.S. and foreign viewers, which may be unpredictable and volatile.. The production and distribution of entertainment content are inherently risky businesses because the revenue we derive and our ability to distribute our content depend primarily on consumer tastes and preferences that often change in unpredictable ways. Our success depends on our ability to consistently create and acquire content that meets the changing preferences of viewers in general, in special interest groups, in specific demographic categories and in various international marketplaces. As the home of the Olympic Games in Europe until 2024, we have been developing and innovating new forms of content in connection with the Olympic Games. Our success with the Olympics depends on audience acceptance of this content. If viewers do not find our Olympic Games content acceptable, we could see low viewership, which could lead to low distribution and advertising revenues.. The commercial success of our content also depends upon the quality and acceptance of competing content available in the applicable marketplace. Other factors, including the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, general economic conditions, piracy, and growing competition for consumer discretionary spending may also affect the audience for our content. Audience sizes for our media networks are critical factors affecting both the volume and pricing of advertising revenue that we receive, and the extent of distribution and the license fees we receive under agreements with our distributors. Consequently, reduced public acceptance of our entertainment content may decrease our audience share and adversely affect our results of operations.. As a company that has operations in the United Kingdom, the vote by the United Kingdom to leave the E.U. could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial position.. On June 23, 2016, the U.K. held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the European Union (\"E.U.\"), commonly referred to as \"Brexit.\" As a result of the referendum, the British government has begun negotiating the terms of the U.K.'s future relationship with the E.U. The effects of Brexit will depend on any agreements the U.K. makes to retain access to the E.U. markets either during a transitional period or more permanently. The measures could potentially disrupt the markets we serve and may cause us to lose subscribers, distributors and employees. If the U.K. loses access to the single E.U. market and the global trade deals negotiated by the E.U., it could have a detrimental impact on our U.K. growth. Such a decline could also make. 20. our doing business in Europe more difficult, which could delay and reduce the scope our distribution and licensing agreements. Without access to the single E.U. market, it may be more challenging and costly to obtain intellectual property rights for our content within the U.K. or distribute our services in Europe. In addition, Brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the U.K. determines which E.U. laws to replace and replicate. If there are changes to U.K. immigration policy as a result of Brexit, this could affect our employees and their ability to move freely between the E.U. member states for work-related matters.. Foreign exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect our operating results and financial conditions.. We have significant operations in a number of foreign jurisdictions and certain of our operations are conducted and certain of our debt obligations are denominated in foreign currencies. As a result, we have exposure to foreign currency risk as we enter into transactions and make investments denominated in multiple currencies. The value of these currencies fluctuates relative to the U.S. dollar. Our consolidated financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars, and to prepare those financial statements we must translate the amounts of the assets, liabilities, net sales, other revenues and expenses of our operations outside of the U.S. from local currencies into U.S. dollars using exchange rates for the current period. As we have expanded our international operations, our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations has increased. This increased exposure could have an adverse effect on our reported results of operations and net asset balances. There is no assurance that downward trending currencies will rebound or that stable currencies will remain unchanged in any period or for any specific market.. Our businesses operate in highly competitive industries.. The entertainment and media programming industries in which we operate are highly competitive. We compete with other programming networks for distribution, viewers and advertising. We also compete for viewers with other forms of media entertainment, such as home video, movies, periodicals, on-line and mobile activities. In particular, websites and search engines have seen significant advertising growth, a portion of which has moved from traditional cable network and satellite advertisers. Businesses, including ours, that offer multiple services, or that may be vertically integrated and offer both video distribution and programming content, may face closer regulatory review from the competition authorities in the countries in which we currently have operations. If our distributors have to pay higher rates to holders of sports broadcasting rights, it might be difficult for us to negotiate higher rates for distribution of our networks. Our commerce business competes against a wide range of competitive retailers selling similar products. The ability of our businesses to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including our ability to consistently supply high quality and popular content, access our niche viewership with appealing category-specific content, adapt to new technologies and distribution platforms and achieve widespread distribution. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future against existing or new competitors, or that increasing competition will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Failure to renew, renewal with less favorable terms, or termination of our affiliation agreements may cause a decline in our revenue.. Because our networks are licensed on a wholesale basis to distributors, such as cable and satellite operators, which in turn distribute them to consumers, we are dependent upon the maintenance of affiliation agreements with these operators. These affiliation agreements generally provide for the level of carriage our networks will receive, such as channel placement and programming package inclusion (widely distributed, broader programming packages compared to lesser distributed, specialized programming packages) and for payment of a license fee to us based on the number of subscribers that receive our networks. While the number of subscribers associated with our networks impacts our ability to generate advertising revenue, these per subscriber payments also represent a significant portion of our revenue. Our affiliation agreements generally have a limited term which varies by market and distributor, and there can be no assurance that these affiliation agreements will be renewed in the future, or renewed on terms that are favorable to us. A reduction in the license fees that we receive per subscriber or in the number of subscribers for which we are paid, including as a result of a loss or reduction in carriage for our networks, could adversely affect our distribution revenue. Such a loss or reduction in carriage could also decrease the potential audience for our programs thereby adversely affecting our advertising revenue. In addition, our affiliation agreements are complex and individually negotiated. If we were to disagree with one of our counterparties on the interpretation of an affiliation agreement, our relationship with that counterparty could be damaged and our business could be negatively affected.. Interpretation of some terms of our distribution agreements may have an adverse effect on the distribution payments we receive under those agreements.. Some of our distribution agreements contain \"most favored nation\" clauses. These clauses typically provide that if we enter into an agreement with another distributor which contains certain more favorable terms, we must offer some of those terms to our existing distributors. We have entered into a number of distribution agreements with terms that differ in some respects from those contained in other agreements. While we believe that we have appropriately complied with the most favored nation clauses included in our distribution agreements, these agreements are complex and other parties could reach a different conclusion that, if correct, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. 21. We face cybersecurity and similar risks, which could result in the disclosure of confidential information, disruption of our programming services, damage to our brands and reputation, legal exposure and financial losses.. Our on-line, mobile and app offerings, as well as our internal systems, involve the storage and transmission of proprietary information, and we and our partners rely on various technology systems in connection with the production and distribution of our programming. Our systems may be breached due to employee error, malicious code, hacking and phishing attacks, or otherwise. Additionally, outside parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or users to disclose sensitive or confidential information in order to gain access to data. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Any such breach or unauthorized access could result in a loss of our proprietary information, which may include user data, a disruption of our services or a reduction of the revenues we are able to generate from such services, damage to our brands and reputation, a loss of confidence in the security of our offerings and services, and significant legal and financial exposure, each of which could potentially have an adverse effect on our business.. Our equity method and cost method investments' financial performance may differ from current estimates.. We have equity investments in several entities and the accounting treatment applied for these investments varies depending on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, our percentage ownership and the level of influence or control we have over the relevant entity. Any losses experienced by these entities could adversely impact our results of operations and the value of our investment. In addition, if these entities were to fail and cease operations, we may lose the entire value of our investment and the stream of any shared profits. Some of our ventures may require additional uncommitted funding. We also have significant investments in entities that we have accounted for using the cost method. If these entities experience significant losses or were to fail and cease operations, our investments could be subject to impairment and the loss of a part or all of our investment value.. Risks Related to the Scripps Networks Acquisition. We may not be able to successfully integrate the Scripps Networks business with our own, realize the anticipated benefits of the Scripps Networks acquisition or manage our expanded operations, any of which would adversely affect our results of operations.. We have devoted, and expect to continue to devote, significant management attention and resources to integrating our organization, procedures, and operations with those of  Scripps Networks. Such integration efforts are costly due to the large number of processes, policies, procedures, locations, operations, technologies and systems to be integrated, including purchasing, accounting and finance, sales, service, operations, payroll, pricing, marketing and employee benefits. Integration expenses could, particularly in the short term, exceed the cost synergies we expect to achieve from the elimination of duplicative expenses and the realization of economies of scale, which could result in significant charges to earnings that we cannot currently quantify. Potential difficulties that we may encounter as part of the integration process include the following:. • our inability to successfully combine our business with Scripps Networks in a manner that permits the combined company to achieve the full synergies and other benefits anticipated to result from the merger; and. • complexities associated with managing the combined businesses, including difficulty addressing possible differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies and the challenge of integrating products, services, complex and different information technology systems, control and compliance processes, technology, networks and other assets of each of the companies in a cohesive manner.. Following the merger, the size and complexity of the business of the combined company will increase significantly. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to manage this expanded business, which will pose substantial challenges for management, including challenges related to the management and monitoring of new operations and associated increased costs and complexity. There can be no assurances that we will be successful or that we will realize the expected synergies and benefits anticipated from the merger.. DCL was not obligated to place in escrow the net proceeds of its senior notes that were issued in September 2017, partially to fund the Scripps Networks acquisition (the \"Senior Notes\"), and, as a result, we may not be able to redeem the Senior Notes upon a special mandatory redemption.. Under the terms of the Senior Notes, we are obligated to redeem the Senior Notes at a redemption price of 101% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest if the Scripps acquisition does not close by August 18, 2018 (a \"special mandatory redemption\").  We were not obligated to place the net proceeds of the offering of the Senior Notes in escrow prior to the completion of the Scripps Networks acquisition or to provide a security interest in those proceeds, and the indenture governing the Senior Notes imposes no other restrictions on our use of these proceeds during that time. Accordingly, the source of funds for any redemption of the $500 million principal amount of 2.200% senior notes due 2019, $1.20 billion principal amount of 2.950% senior notes due 2023, $1.70 billion principal amount of 3.950% senior notes due 2028, $1.25 billion principal amount of 5.000% senior notes due. 22. 2037 and $1.25 billion principal amount of 5.200% senior notes due 2047  or £400 million principal amount of 2.500% senior notes due 2024 upon a special mandatory redemption would be the proceeds that we have voluntarily retained or other sources of liquidity, including available cash, borrowings, sales of assets or sales of equity. We may not be able to satisfy our obligation to redeem these Senior Notes upon a special mandatory redemption, because we may not have sufficient financial resources to pay the aggregate redemption price on such Senior Notes. Our failure to redeem these Senior Notes as required under the indenture would result in a default under the indenture, which could result in defaults under our and our subsidiaries' other debt agreements and have material adverse consequences for us and the holders of the Senior Notes. In addition, our ability to redeem the senior notes for cash may be limited by law or the terms of other agreements relating to our indebtedness outstanding at the time.. General Risks. Theft of our content, including digital copyright theft and other unauthorized exhibitions of our content, may decrease revenue received from our programming and adversely affect our businesses and profitability.. The success of our business depends in part on our ability to maintain the intellectual property rights to our entertainment content. We are fundamentally a content company, and piracy of our brands, television networks, digital content and other intellectual property has the potential to significantly and adversely affect us. Piracy is particularly prevalent in many parts of the world that lack copyright and other protections similar to existing law in the U.S. It is also made easier by technological advances allowing the conversion of content into digital formats, which facilitates the creation, transmission and sharing of high-quality unauthorized copies. Unauthorized distribution of copyrighted material over the Internet is a threat to copyright owners' ability to protect and exploit their property. The proliferation of unauthorized use of our content may have an adverse effect on our business and profitability because it reduces the revenue that we potentially could receive from the legitimate sale and distribution of our content. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect trade secrets or to determine the validity or scope of proprietary rights claimed by others.. We are subject to risks related to our international operations.. We have operations through which we distribute programming outside the United States. As a result, our business is subject to certain risks inherent in international business, many of which are beyond our control. These risks include:. • laws and policies affecting trade and taxes, including laws and policies relating to the repatriation of funds and withholding taxes, and changes in these laws;. • changes in local regulatory requirements, including restrictions on content, imposition of local content quotas and restrictions on foreign ownership;. • differing degrees of protection for intellectual property and varying attitudes towards the piracy of intellectual property;. • significant fluctuations in foreign currency value;. • currency exchange controls;. • the instability of foreign economies and governments;. • war and acts of terrorism;. • anti-corruption laws and regulations such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act that impose stringent requirements on how we conduct our foreign operations and changes in these laws and regulations;. • foreign privacy and data protection laws and regulation and changes in these laws; and. • shifting consumer preferences regarding the viewing of video programming.. Events or developments related to these and other risks associated with international trade could adversely affect our revenues from non-U.S. sources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, liquidity and prospects.. Furthermore, some foreign markets where we and our partners operate may be more adversely affected by current economic conditions than the U.S. We also may incur substantial expense as a result of changes, including the imposition of new restrictions, in the existing economic or political environment in the regions where we do business. Acts of terrorism, hostilities, or financial, political, economic or other uncertainties could lead to a reduction in revenue or loss of investment, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. Global economic conditions may have an adverse effect on our business.. Our business is significantly affected by prevailing economic conditions and by disruptions to financial markets. We derive substantial revenues from advertisers, and these expenditures are sensitive to general economic conditions and consumer buying patterns. Financial instability or a general decline in economic conditions in the U.S. and other countries where our networks are. 23. distributed could adversely affect advertising rates and volume, resulting in a decrease in our advertising revenues.. Decreases in consumer discretionary spending in the U.S. and other countries where our networks are distributed may affect cable television and other video service subscriptions, in particular with respect to digital service tiers on which certain of our programming networks are carried. This could lead to a decrease in the number of subscribers receiving our programming from multi-channel video programming distributors, which could have a negative impact on our viewing subscribers and affiliation fee revenues. Similarly, a decrease in viewing subscribers would also have a negative impact on the number of viewers actually watching the programs on our programming networks, which could also impact the rates we are able to charge advertisers.. Economic conditions affect a number of aspects of our businesses worldwide and impact the businesses of our partners who purchase advertising on our networks and might reduce their spending on advertising. Economic conditions can also negatively affect the ability of those with whom we do business to satisfy their obligations to us. The general worsening of current global economic conditions could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, and the worsening of economic conditions in certain parts of the world, specifically, could impact the expansion and success of our businesses in such areas.. Domestic and foreign laws and regulations could adversely impact our operation results.. Programming services like ours, and the distributors of our services, including cable operators, satellite operators and other multi-channel video programming distributors, are regulated by U.S. federal laws and regulations issued and administered by various federal agencies, including the FCC, as well as by state and local governments, in ways that affect the daily conduct of our video content business. See the discussion under \"Business  -  Regulatory Matters\" above. The U.S. Congress, the FCC and the courts currently have under consideration, and may adopt or interpret in the future, new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters that could, directly or indirectly, affect the operations of our U.S. media properties or modify the terms under which we offer our services and operate.. Similarly, the foreign jurisdictions in which our networks are offered have, in varying degrees, laws and regulations governing our businesses. Programming businesses are subject to regulation on a country-by-country basis. Changes in regulations imposed by foreign governments could also adversely affect our business, results of operations and ability to expand our operations beyond their current scope.. Financial markets are subject to volatility and disruptions that may affect our ability to obtain or increase the cost of financing our operations and our ability to meet our other obligations.. Increased volatility and disruptions in the U.S. and global financial and equity markets may make it more difficult for us to obtain financing for our operations or investments or increase the cost of obtaining financing. Our borrowing costs can be affected by short and long-term debt ratings assigned by independent rating agencies which are based, in significant part, on our performance as measured by credit metrics such as interest coverage and leverage ratios. A low rating could increase our cost of borrowing or make it more difficult for us to obtain future financing. Unforeseeable changes in foreign currencies could negatively impact our results of operations and calculations of interest coverage and leverage ratios.. Acquisitions and other strategic transactions present many risks and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals that were contemplated at the time of any transaction.. From time to time we make acquisitions, investments and enter into other strategic transactions, including our planned transaction with Scripps Networks. In connection with such acquisitions and strategic transactions, we may incur unanticipated expenses, fail to realize anticipated benefits, have difficulty incorporating the acquired businesses, disrupt relationships with current and new employees, subscribers, affiliates and vendors, incur significant debt, or have to delay or not proceed with announced transactions such as the Scripps Networks transaction. Additionally, regulatory agencies, such as the FCC or DOJ may impose additional restrictions on the operation of our business as a result of our seeking regulatory approvals for any significant acquisitions and strategic transactions. The occurrence of any of these events could have an adverse effect on our business.. Our inability to successfully acquire and integrate other businesses, assets, products or technologies could harm our operating results.. Our success may depend on opportunities to buy other businesses or technologies that could complement, enhance or expand our current business or products or that might otherwise offer us growth opportunities. We have acquired, and have made strategic investments in, a number of companies (including through joint ventures) in the past, and we expect to make additional acquisitions and strategic investments in the future. Such transactions may result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities, use of our cash resources, and incurrence of debt and amortization expenses related to intangible assets. Any acquisitions and strategic investments that we are able to identify and complete may be accompanied by a number of risks, including:. • the difficulty of assimilating the operations and personnel of acquired companies into our operations;. 24. • the potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management;. • the incurrence of additional operating losses and operating expenses of the businesses we acquired or in which we invested;. • the difficulty of integrating acquired technology and rights into our services and unanticipated expenses related to such integration;. • the failure to successfully further develop an acquired business or technology and any resulting impairment of amounts currently capitalized as intangible assets;. • the failure of strategic investments to perform as expected or to meet financial projections;. • the potential for patent and trademark infringement and data privacy and security claims against the acquired companies, or companies in which we have invested;. • litigation or other claims in connection with acquisitions, acquired companies, or companies in which we have invested;. • the impairment or loss of relationships with customers and partners of the companies we acquired or in which we invested or with our customers and partners as a result of the integration of acquired operations;. • the impairment of relationships with, or failure to retain, employees of acquired companies or our existing employees as a result of integration of new personnel;. • our lack of, or limitations on our, control over the operations of our joint venture companies;. • the difficulty of integrating operations, systems, and controls as a result of cultural, regulatory, systems, and operational differences;. • in the case of foreign acquisitions and investments, the impact of particular economic, tax, currency, political, legal and regulatory risks associated with specific countries; and. • the impact of known potential liabilities or liabilities that may be unknown, including as a result of inadequate internal controls, associated with the companies we acquired or in which we invested.. Our failure to be successful in addressing these risks or other problems encountered in connection with our past or future acquisitions and strategic investments could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions or investments, incur unanticipated liabilities, and harm our business generally.. The loss of key personnel or talent could disrupt our business and adversely affect our revenue.. Our business depends upon the continued efforts, abilities and expertise of our corporate and divisional executive teams and entertainment personalities. Our success after the Scripps Networks acquisition will depend in part upon our ability to retain key employees. Prior to and following the completion of the merger, current and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with Discovery and choose to pursue other opportunities, which could have an adverse effect on Discovery after the transaction. If key employees depart, the integration of Scripps Networks with Discovery may be more difficult and our business following the completion of the merger may be adversely affected. Additionally, we employ or contract with entertainment personalities who may have loyal audiences. These individuals are important to audience endorsement of our programs and other content. There can be no assurance that these individuals will remain with us or retain their current audiences. If we fail to retain key individuals or if our entertainment personalities lose their current audience base, our operations could be adversely affected.. Newly-enacted US tax reform could adversely impact our international business and results of operations.. Recently enacted US tax reform could adversely impact our business and results of operations. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"TCJA\"), which includes a broad range of tax reform regulations affecting businesses, including corporate tax rates, business deductions, and international tax provisions. Some of the changes, like the new tax on global intangible low-taxed income (\"GILTI\") or the base erosion and anti-abuse tax (\"BEAT\"), could have the effect of increasing our effective tax rate, the amount of our consolidated net taxable income subject to income taxes, and our overall tax liability, and could reduce our net income and our earnings per share, as well as our consolidated cash flows and liquidity, even if the changes include a reduction in the rate at which corporate taxable income is taxed. In addition, the determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and current and deferred tax assets and liabilities requires judgment and estimation. Our income taxes could also be materially adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in worldwide tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles.. 25. Risks Related to Our Debt. We have a significant amount of debt and may incur significant amounts of additional debt, which could adversely affect our financial health and our ability to react to changes in our business.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $14.8 billion of consolidated debt, including capital leases. Our substantial level of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay when due the principal of, interest on, or other amounts associated with our indebtedness. In addition, we have the ability to draw down our $2.5 billion revolving credit facility in the ordinary course, which would have the effect of increasing our indebtedness. We are also permitted, subject to certain restrictions under our existing indebtedness, to obtain additional long-term debt and working capital lines of credit to meet future financing needs. This would have the effect of increasing our total leverage.. Our substantial leverage could have significant negative consequences on our financial condition and results of operations, including:. • impairing our ability to meet one or more of the financial ratio covenants contained in our debt agreements or to generate cash sufficient to pay interest or principal, which could result in an acceleration of some or all of our outstanding debt in the event that an uncured default occurs;. • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and market conditions;. • limiting our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing;. • requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our debt, thereby reducing the amount of cash flow available for other purposes;. • requiring us to sell debt or equity securities or to sell some of our core assets, possibly on unfavorable terms, to meet payment obligations;. • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets in which we compete; and. • placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage with less leveraged competitors and competitors that may have better access to capital resources.. Our ability to incur debt and the use of our funds could be limited by the restrictive covenants in the loan agreement for our revolving credit facility.. The loan agreement for our revolving credit facility contains restrictive covenants, as well as requirements to comply with certain leverage and other financial maintenance tests. These covenants and requirements could limit our ability to take various actions, including incurring additional debt, guaranteeing indebtedness and engaging in various types of transactions, including mergers, acquisitions and sales of assets. These covenants could place us at a disadvantage compared to some of our competitors, who may have fewer restrictive covenants and may not be required to operate under these restrictions. Further, these covenants could have an adverse effect on our business by limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, mergers and acquisitions or other opportunities.. Risks Related to Corporate Structure. As a holding company, we could be unable to obtain cash in amounts sufficient to meet our financial obligations or other commitments.. Our ability to meet our financial obligations and other contractual commitments will depend upon our ability to access cash. We are a holding company, and our sources of cash include our available cash balances, net cash from the operating activities of our subsidiaries, any dividends and interest we may receive from our investments, availability under our credit facility or any credit facilities that we may obtain in the future and proceeds from any asset sales we may undertake in the future. The ability of our operating subsidiaries, including Discovery Communications, LLC, to pay dividends or to make other payments or advances to us will depend on their individual operating results and any statutory, regulatory or contractual restrictions, including restrictions under our credit facility, to which they may be or may become subject. Under the TCJA, we are subject to U.S. taxes for the deemed repatriation of certain cash balances held by foreign corporations. However, we intent to permanently reinvest these funds outside of the U.S. and our current plans do not demonstrate a need to repatriate them to fund our U.S. operations.. We have directors in common with those of Liberty Media Corporation (\"Liberty Media\"), Liberty Global plc (\"Liberty Global\"), Liberty Interactive Corporation (\"Liberty Interactive\") and Liberty Broadband Corporation (\"Liberty Broadband\"), which may result in the diversion of business opportunities or other potential conflicts.. Liberty Media, Liberty Global, Liberty Interactive and Liberty Broadband (together, the \"Liberty Entities\") own interests in. 26. various U.S. and international companies, such as Charter Communications, Inc. (\"Charter\"), that have subsidiaries that own or operate domestic or foreign content services that may compete with the content services we offer. We have no rights in respect of U.S. or international content opportunities developed by or presented to the subsidiaries of any Liberty Entities, and the pursuit of these opportunities by such subsidiaries may adversely affect our interests and those of our stockholders. Because we and the Liberty Entities have overlapping directors, the pursuit of business opportunities may serve to intensify the conflicts of interest or appearance of conflicts of interest faced by the respective management teams. Our charter provides that none of our directors or officers will be liable to us or any of our subsidiaries for breach of any fiduciary duty by reason of the fact that such individual directs a corporate opportunity to another person or entity (including any Liberty Entities), for which such individual serves as a director or officer, or does not refer or communicate information regarding such corporate opportunity to us or any of our subsidiaries, unless (x) such opportunity was expressly offered to such individual solely in his or her capacity as a director or officer of us or any of our subsidiaries and (y) such opportunity relates to a line of business in which we or any of our subsidiaries is then directly engaged.. We have directors that are also related persons of Advance/Newhouse and that overlap with those of the Liberty Entities, which may lead to conflicting interests for those tasked with the fiduciary duties of our board.. Our eleven-person board of directors includes three designees of Advance/Newhouse, including Robert J. Miron, who was the Chairman of Advance/Newhouse until December 31, 2010, and Steven A. Miron, the Chief Executive Officer of Advance/Newhouse. In addition, our board of directors includes two persons who are currently members of the board of directors of Liberty Media, three persons who are currently members of the board of directors of Liberty Global, one person who is currently a member of the board of directors of Liberty Interactive, two persons who are currently members of the board of directors of Liberty Broadband and two persons who are currently members of the board of directors of Charter, of which Liberty Broadband owns an equity interest.  John C. Malone is the Chairman of the boards of all of the Liberty Entities and is a member of the board of directors of Charter. The parent company of Advance/Newhouse and the Liberty Entities own interests in a range of media, communications and entertainment businesses.. Advance/Newhouse will elect three directors annually for so long as it owns a specified minimum amount of our Series A-1 convertible preferred stock. The Advance/Newhouse Series A-1 convertible preferred stock, which votes with our common stock on all matters other than the election of directors, represents approximately 24% of the voting power of our outstanding shares. The Series A-1 convertible preferred stock also grants Advance/Newhouse consent rights over a range of our corporate actions, including fundamental changes to our business, the issuance of additional capital stock, mergers and business combinations and certain acquisitions and dispositions.. None of the Liberty Entities own any interest in us. Mr. Malone beneficially owns stock of Liberty Media representing approximately 47% of the aggregate voting power of its outstanding stock, owns shares representing approximately 26% of the aggregate voting power of Liberty Global, shares representing approximately 39% of the aggregate voting power of Liberty Interactive, shares representing approximately 46% of the aggregate voting power of Liberty Broadband and shares representing approximately 21% of the aggregate voting power (other than with respect to the election of the common stock directors) of our outstanding stock. Mr. Malone controls approximately 28% of our aggregate voting power relating to the election of our eight common stock directors, assuming that the preferred stock owned by Advance/Newhouse has not been converted into shares of our common stock. Our directors who are also directors of the Liberty Entities own stock and stock incentives of the Liberty Entities and own our stock and stock incentives.. These ownership interests and/or business positions could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when these individuals are faced with decisions that could have different implications for us, Advance/Newhouse and/or the Liberty Entities. For example, there may be the potential for a conflict of interest when we, on the one hand, or Advance/Newhouse and/or one or more of the Liberty Entities, on the other hand, consider acquisitions and other corporate opportunities that may be suitable for the other.. The members of our board of directors have fiduciary duties to us and our stockholders. Likewise, those persons who serve in similar capacities at Advance/Newhouse or a Liberty Entity have fiduciary duties to those companies. Therefore, such persons may have conflicts of interest or the appearance of conflicts of interest with respect to matters involving or affecting both respective companies, and there can be no assurance that the terms of any transactions will be as favorable to us or our subsidiaries as would be the case in the absence of a conflict of interest.. It may be difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if such acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders.. Certain provisions of our charter and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control that a stockholder may consider favorable. These provisions include the following:. • authorizing a capital structure with multiple series of common stock: a Series B that entitles the holders to ten votes per share, a Series A-1 that entitles the holders to one vote per share and a Series C that, except as otherwise required by applicable law, entitles the holders to no voting rights;. 27. • authorizing the Series A-1 convertible preferred stock with special voting rights, which prohibits us from taking any of the following actions, among others, without the prior approval of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of such stock:. • increasing the number of members of the Board of Directors above ten;. • making any material amendment to our charter or by-laws;. • engaging in a merger, consolidation or other business combination with any other entity; and. • appointing or removing our Chairman of the Board or our Chief Executive Officer;. • authorizing the issuance of \"blank check\" preferred stock, which could be issued by our Board of Directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt;. • classifying our common stock directors with staggered three-year terms and having three directors elected by the holders of the Series A convertible preferred stock, which may lengthen the time required to gain control of our Board of Directors;. • limiting who may call special meetings of stockholders;. • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent (subject to certain exceptions), thereby requiring stockholder action to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders;. • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings;. • requiring stockholder approval by holders of at least 80% of our voting power or the approval by at least 75% of our Board of Directors with respect to certain extraordinary matters, such as a merger or consolidation, a sale of all or substantially all of our assets or an amendment to our charter;. • requiring the consent of the holders of at least 75% of the outstanding Series B common stock (voting as a separate class) to certain share distributions and other corporate actions in which the voting power of the Series B common stock would be diluted by, for example, issuing shares having multiple votes per share as a dividend to holders of Series A common stock; and. • the existence of authorized and unissued stock which would allow our Board of Directors to issue shares to persons friendly to current management, thereby protecting the continuity of our management, or which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of persons seeking to obtain control of us.. We have also adopted a shareholder rights plan in order to encourage anyone seeking to acquire us to negotiate with our Board of Directors prior to attempting a takeover. While the plan is designed to guard against coercive or unfair tactics to gain control of us, the plan may have the effect of making more difficult or delaying any attempts by others to obtain control of us.. Holders of any single series of our common stock may not have any remedies if any action by our directors or officers has an adverse effect on only that series of common stock.. Principles of Delaware law and the provisions of our charter may protect decisions of our Board of Directors that have a disparate impact upon holders of any single series of our common stock. Under Delaware law, the Board of Directors has a duty to act with due care and in the best interests of all of our stockholders, including the holders of all series of our common stock. Principles of Delaware law established in cases involving differing treatment of multiple classes or series of stock provide that a board of directors owes an equal duty to all common stockholders regardless of class or series and does not have separate or additional duties to any group of stockholders. As a result, in some circumstances, our directors may be required to make a decision that is adverse to the holders of one series of common stock. Under the principles of Delaware law referred to above, stockholders may not be able to challenge these decisions if our Board of Directors is disinterested and adequately informed with respect to these decisions and acts in good faith and in the honest belief that it is acting in the best interests of all of our stockholders.. If Advance/Newhouse were to exercise its registration rights, it may cause a significant decline in our stock price, even if our business is doing well.. Advance/Newhouse has been granted registration rights covering all of the shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the convertible preferred stock held by Advance/Newhouse. Advance/Newhouse's Series A-1 convertible preferred stock is currently convertible into nine share of our Series A common stock and Advance/Newhouse's Series C-1 convertible preferred stock is convertible into 19.3648 shares of our Series C common stock, subject to certain anti-dilution adjustments. The registration rights, which are immediately exercisable, are transferable with the sale or transfer by Advance/Newhouse of blocks of shares representing 10% or more of the preferred stock it holds. The exercise of the registration rights, and subsequent sale of. 28. possibly large amounts of our common stock in the public market, could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. John C. Malone and Advance/Newhouse each have significant voting power with respect to corporate matters considered by our stockholders.. For corporate matters other than the election of directors, Mr. Malone and Advance/Newhouse each beneficially own shares of our stock representing approximately 21% and 24%, respectively, of the aggregate voting power represented by our outstanding stock. With respect to the election of directors, Mr. Malone controls approximately 28% of the aggregate voting power relating to the election of the eight common stock directors (assuming that the convertible preferred stock owned by Advance/Newhouse (the \"A/N Preferred Stock\") has not been converted into shares of our common stock). The A/N Preferred Stock carries with it the right to designate three preferred stock directors to our board (subject to certain conditions), but does not carry voting rights with respect to the election of the eight common stock directors. Also, under the terms of the A/N Preferred Stock, Advance/Newhouse has special voting rights as to certain enumerated matters, including material amendments to the restated charter and bylaws, fundamental changes in our business, mergers and other business combinations, certain acquisitions and dispositions and future issuances of capital stock. Although there is no stockholder agreement, voting agreement or any similar arrangement between Mr. Malone and Advance/Newhouse, by virtue of their respective holdings, Mr. Malone and Advance/Newhouse each have significant influence over the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our stockholders."
