[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. You should carefully review and consider the risks and uncertainties described below, which are risks and uncertainties that could materially adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, cash flows, liquidity and results of operations, our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders and/or our stock price. In addition, to the extent that any of the information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K constitutes forward-looking information, the risk factors set forth below are cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause our actual results for various financial reporting periods to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on our behalf.. Risks Related to Emergence from Bankruptcy Protection. Information contained in our historical financial statements will not be comparable to the information contained in our financial statements after the expected application of fresh start accounting.. Following the consummation of the Prepackaged Plan, our financial condition and results of operations from and after the Effective Date will not be comparable to the financial condition or results of operations in our historical financial statements. As a result of our restructuring under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code, our financial statements are expected to be subject to the fresh start accounting provisions of GAAP. In the application of fresh start accounting, an allocation of the reorganization value is made to the fair value of assets and liabilities in conformity with the guidance for the acquisition method of accounting for business combinations. Adjustments to the carrying amounts could be material and could affect prospective results of operations as balance sheet items are settled, depreciated, amortized or impaired. This will make it difficult for our stockholders and others to assess our performance in relation to prior periods. Our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2018 will reflect the consummation of the Prepackaged Plan and the expected adoption of fresh start accounting effective February 10, 2018.. Our emergence from reorganization proceedings will reduce or eliminate our tax attributes and limit our ability to offset future taxable income with tax losses and credits incurred prior to our emergence from bankruptcy. Our remaining deferred tax assets could be further impaired if we have a subsequent significant change in our stockholder base.. As a result of the discharge of debt pursuant to the Chapter 11 Case, we will incur substantial cancellation of debt for federal income tax purposes. In general, a debtor in a Chapter 11 proceeding is required to reduce the amount of its tax attributes by such cancellation of debt. The tax attributes, including net operating losses, tax credits and tax basis in assets, provide potential value in the form of reduced future tax liability.. A corporation's ability to recognize the value of its tax attributes can be substantially constrained under the general annual limitation rules of Section 382 if it undergoes an \"ownership change\" as defined in Section 382 (generally where cumulative stock ownership changes among material shareholders exceed 50% during a rolling three-year period). We experienced an ownership change in connection with our emergence from the Chapter 11 Case. The general limitation rules for a debtor in a bankruptcy case are liberalized where the ownership change occurs upon emergence from bankruptcy. While we anticipate taking advantage of certain special rules for federal income tax purposes that would allow us to mitigate the limitations imposed under Section 382 with respect to our remaining tax attributes, there can be no assurance that these special rules will apply to the ownership change we experienced upon our emergence from bankruptcy, including that we may ultimately elect not to apply them. If the special rules do not apply, our ability to realize the value of our tax attributes would be subject to limitation.. Notwithstanding the foregoing, an ownership change subsequent to our emergence from the Chapter 11 Case may severely limit or effectively eliminate our ability to realize the value of our tax attributes. To reduce the risk of a potential adverse effect on our ability to realize the value of our tax attributes, our Articles of Amendment and Restatement contain transfer restrictions applicable to certain substantial common and preferred stockholders. Although the purpose of these transfer restrictions is to prevent an ownership change from occurring, no assurance can be given that such an ownership change will not occur, in which case our ability to realize the value of our tax attributes could be severely limited or effectively eliminated.. Our ability to use our deferred tax assets to offset future taxable income may be subject to certain limitations that could subject our business to higher tax liabilities.. We may be limited in the portion of net operating loss carryforwards and built in losses that we can use in the future to offset taxable income for U.S. federal and state income tax purposes. The Tax Act enacted on December 22, 2017 makes broad and complex changes to the Code. While future interpretative guidance related to the Tax Act and how U.S. states will incorporate these federal law changes may have an impact on our business, the Tax Act's reduction of the federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, effective January 1, 2018, has reduced our net deferred tax assets including those associated with NOL Carryforwards. A lack of future taxable income would adversely affect our ability to utilize our NOL Carryforwards.. 20. Table of Contents. In addition, under Section 382 of the Code, a corporation that undergoes an \"ownership change\" is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its NOL Carryforwards and built in losses to offset future taxable income. Future changes in our stock ownership as well as other changes that may be outside of our control could result in additional ownership changes under Section 382 of the Code. Our state NOL Carryforwards may also be impaired under similar provisions of state law.. We assess the available positive and negative evidence to estimate if sufficient future taxable income will be generated to utilize our existing deferred tax assets. On the basis of this evaluation, a full valuation allowance has been recorded to recognize only deferred tax assets that are more likely than not to be realized.. Finally, further changes to the federal or state tax laws or additional technical guidance relating to the Tax Act could operate to effectively reduce or eliminate the value of any deferred tax asset. Our tax attributes as of December 31, 2017 may expire unutilized or underutilized, which could prevent us from offsetting future taxable income.. There is limited history of trading of our post-emergence common stock, and volatility is possible.. Our post-emergence common stock has traded for only a limited period of time. Some of the holders who received common stock upon emergence may not elect to hold their shares on a long-term basis. Sales by these stockholders of a substantial number of shares could significantly reduce the market price of our common stock. Moreover, the perception that these stockholders might sell significant amounts of our common stock could depress the trading price of the stock for a considerable period of time. Such sales of common stock, and the possibility thereof, could make it more difficult for us to sell equity, or equity-related securities, in the future at a time and price that we consider appropriate.. Risks Related to our Business. If we fail to operate our business in compliance with both existing and future statutory, regulatory and other requirements, our business, financial condition, liquidity and/or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. Our business is subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental and regulatory authorities, including the CFPB, the FTC, HUD, the VA, the SEC and various state agencies that license, audit, investigate and conduct examinations of our mortgage servicing, origination, insurance, collection, reverse mortgage and other activities. Further, in recent years the policies, laws, rules and regulations applicable to our business have been rapidly evolving. Federal, state or local governmental authorities may continue to enact laws, rules or regulations that will result in changes in our business practices and increased costs of compliance. However, we are unable to predict whether any such changes will adversely affect our business.. In addition, the GSEs, Ginnie Mae and other business counterparties also subject us to periodic examinations, reviews and audits, and we routinely conduct our own internal examinations, reviews and audits. These various audits, reviews and examinations of our business and related activities have uncovered, and may in the future uncover, deficiencies in our compliance with our policies and other requirements to which we are subject. While we strive to investigate and remediate such deficiencies, there can be no assurance that any remedial measures we implement, which could involve material expense, will ensure compliance with applicable policies, laws, regulations and other requirements or be deemed sufficient by the GSEs, Ginnie Mae, governmental authorities or other interested parties.. We devote substantial resources (including senior management time and attention) to regulatory compliance and regulatory inquiries, and we incur, and expect to continue to incur, significant costs in connection therewith. Our business, financial condition, liquidity and/or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by the substantial resources (including senior management time and attention) we devote to, and the significant compliance costs we incur in connection with, regulatory compliance and regulatory inquiries, and any fines, penalties, restitution or similar payments we make in connection with resolving such matters.. Furthermore, our actual or alleged failure to comply with applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations and GSE, Ginnie Mae and other business counterparty requirements, or to implement and adhere to adequate remedial measures designed to address any identified compliance deficiencies, could lead to:. • the loss or suspension of licenses and approvals necessary to operate our business;. • limitations, restrictions or complete bans on our business or various segments of our business;. • disqualification from participation in governmental programs, including GSE programs;. • damage to our reputation;. • governmental investigations and enforcement actions;. • administrative fines and financial penalties;. 21. Table of Contents. • litigation, including class action lawsuits;. • civil and criminal liability;. • termination of our servicing and subservicing agreements or other contracts;. • demands for us to repurchase loans;. • loss of personnel who are targeted by prosecutions, investigations, enforcement actions or litigation;. • a significant increase in compliance costs;. • a significant increase in the resources (including senior management time and attention) we devote to regulatory compliance and regulatory inquiries;. • an inability to access new, or a default under or other loss of current, liquidity and funding sources necessary to operate our business;. • restrictions on mergers and acquisitions;. • impairment of assets;. • conservatorship or receivership by order of a court or regulator; and. • an inability to execute on our business strategy.. Any of these outcomes could materially and adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition, prospects, liquidity and/or results of operations.. The mortgage servicing industry has been and remains under a higher degree of scrutiny from state and federal regulators and other authorities, with particular attention directed at larger non-bank servicing organizations such as Ditech Holding. We cannot guarantee that any such scrutiny and investigations will not materially adversely affect us.. Our failure to comply with existing and future rules and regulations relating to the origination and servicing of residential loans, and/or more stringent enforcement of such rules and regulations by the CFPB, HUD and other federal and state agencies could result in enforcement actions, fines, penalties and reputational damage.. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law for the express purpose of further regulating the financial services industry, including mortgage origination, sales, servicing and securitization. The CFPB, a federal agency established pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, officially began operation on July 21, 2011. The CFPB is charged, in part, with enforcing laws involving consumer financial products and services, including mortgage finance and servicing and reverse mortgages, and is empowered with examination, enforcement and rulemaking authority.. The Dodd-Frank Act established new standards and practices for mortgage originators and servicers, including determining prospective borrowers' abilities to repay their mortgages, removing incentives for higher cost mortgages, prohibiting prepayment penalties for non-qualified mortgages, prohibiting mandatory arbitration clauses, requiring additional disclosures to potential borrowers, restricting the fees that mortgage originators may collect, new mortgage loan disclosures that integrate TILA and RESPA disclosures for certain covered transactions and other new requirements.. In recent years, HUD and the DOJ have pursued actions against FHA-approved lenders, including RMS, under the False Claims Act, which imposes liability on any person who knowingly makes a false or fraudulent claim for payment to the U.S. government. Potential penalties are significant as these actions may result in treble damages and several large settlements have been entered into by HUD-approved mortgagees who have allegedly violated the False Claims Act. RMS received a subpoena dated June 16, 2016 from the Office of Inspector General of HUD requiring RMS to produce documents and other materials relating to, among other things, the origination, underwriting and appraisal of reverse mortgages for the time period since January 1, 2005. RMS subsequently received an additional subpoena from the Office of Inspector General of HUD dated January 12, 2017 requesting certain documents and information relating to the origination and underwriting of certain specified loans. This investigation, which is being conducted in coordination with the U.S. Department of Justice, Civil Division, could lead to a demand or claim under the False Claims Act, which allows for penalties and treble damages, or other statutes. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings for additional information.. In addition, the DOJ could take the position that it could initiate actions against Fannie Mae- and Freddie Mac-approved lenders and servicers for alleged violations of the False Claims Act as a result of noncompliance with the GSE's underwriting and other guidelines, given the FHFA conservatorship.. 22. Table of Contents. Regulations under the Dodd-Frank Act, bulletins issued by the CFPB pursuant to its authority, and other actions by the CFPB, HUD, the VA and other federal agencies could materially and adversely affect the manner in which we conduct our businesses, and have and could continue to result in heightened federal regulation and oversight of our business activities and in increased costs and potential litigation associated with our business activities.. We are subject to state licensing requirements and incur related substantial compliance costs, and our business would be adversely affected if we encountered a suspension or termination of our licenses.. Our operations are subject to regulation, supervision and licensing under various federal, state and local statutes, ordinances and regulations. Although we are not a bank or bank holding company, in most states in which we operate, one or more regulatory agencies regulate and enforce laws relating to non-bank mortgage servicing companies and/or mortgage origination companies such as Ditech Financial and RMS. These rules and regulations generally provide for licensing as a mortgage servicing company, mortgage origination company, debt collection agency and/or third-party default specialist, as applicable, requirements as to the documentation, individual licensing of our employees and employee hiring background checks, licensing of independent contractors with whom we contract, restrictions on collection practices, disclosure and record-keeping requirements and enforcement of borrowers' rights. In certain states, we are subject to periodic examination by state regulatory authorities. Some states in which we operate require special licensing or provide extensive regulation of our business, and state regulators may have broad discretion to restrict our activities or to suspend approval or withdraw our licenses for non-compliance with applicable requirements. The failure to respond appropriately to regulatory inquiries and investigations or to satisfy state regulatory requirements could result in our ability to operate in the state being terminated, cause a default under our servicing agreements, impact our ability to originate new loans or service loans and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operations.. Regulatory changes could increase our costs through additional or stricter licensing laws, disclosure laws or other regulatory requirements and could impose conditions to licensing that we or our personnel are unable to meet. Future legislation and changes in regulation may significantly increase the compliance costs on our operations or impact overall profitability of our business. This could make our business cost-prohibitive in the affected state or states and could materially affect our business.. Legal proceedings and related costs may increase and could adversely affect our financial results.. We are involved in various legal proceedings, including numerous litigation matters that arise in the ordinary course of our business (including numerous putative class actions). Like other participants in our industry, we have been and may continue to be the subject of class action and other lawsuits and of regulatory actions by state attorneys general and federal and state regulators and enforcement agencies.. Litigation and other proceedings have required, and may require in the future, that we pay attorneys' fees, settlement costs, damages (including punitive damages), penalties or other charges, which could materially adversely affect our financial results and condition and damage our reputation.. Governmental and regulatory investigations, both state and federal, have increased in all areas of our business over the last several years. The costs of responding to the investigations can be substantial. In addition, government-mandated changes, resulting from investigations or otherwise, to our loan origination and servicing practices have led, and may continue to lead, to higher costs and additional administrative burdens, such as record retention and informational obligations.. From time to time, we have entered into agreements or orders to settle investigations, potential litigations or other enforcement actions against us by governmental and regulatory authorities. Complying with settlements can be costly, and if we fail to comply we could be subject to sanctions, including actions for contempt, actions for additional fines or actions alleging violations of law. The announcement and terms of such settlements could adversely affect our reputation and, if the settlements involve findings that we have breached the law, could cause a breach of or default under our financing agreements, our servicing or subservicing contracts or other contractual obligations. Such settlements, our efforts to comply with settlements and our failure to comply with settlements could have a material adverse effect on our business, business practices, prospects, results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.. We establish reserves for pending or threatened litigation and regulatory matters when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of such loss can be reasonably estimated. Litigation and regulatory matters involve considerable inherent uncertainties, and our estimates of loss are based on judgments and information available at the time. Our estimates may change from time to time for various reasons, including developments in the matters. There cannot be any assurance that the ultimate resolution of our litigation and regulatory matters will not involve losses, which may be material, in excess of our recorded accruals or estimates of reasonably possible losses. See Note 30 to our Consolidated Financial Statements and Item 3. Legal Proceedings for additional information.. 23. Table of Contents. Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt and prevent us from meeting our obligations.. We have substantial levels of indebtedness. As of the Effective Date, we had approximately $2.8 billion of total indebtedness outstanding, the majority of which was secured, including:. • $1.2 billion of indebtedness under our 2018 Term Loan;. • $250.0 million aggregate principal amount of Second Lien Notes;. • $50.6 million, in the aggregate, of indebtedness under the Early Advance Reimbursement Agreement; and. • $1.3 billion, in the aggregate, of indebtedness under the Exit Warehouse Facilities.. All of these amounts of indebtedness exclude (i) intercompany indebtedness, (ii) guarantees of affiliate debt and (iii) certain mortgage-backed debt and HMBS-related obligations (which are non-recourse to us and our subsidiaries).. Our high level of indebtedness could have important consequences, including:. • increasing our vulnerability to downturns or adverse changes in general economic, industry or competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulations;. • requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities;. • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our indebtedness is unhedged and at a variable rate of interest;. • limiting our ability to make strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures;. • limiting our ability to pursue strategic and operational goals;. • exposing us to the risk of not being able to refinance our indebtedness on terms that are commercially acceptable to us, or at all;. • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product or service line development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and. • limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors with lower debt levels.. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to meet all of our obligations or service all of our indebtedness and may not be able to extend or refinance our indebtedness. If we are unable to do so, we may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations, which may not be successful.. Our ability to make required payments on our debt and other obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control, including the risk factors set forth herein. We have recorded significant losses in 2016 and 2017. We cannot assure you we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness or to meet our other obligations such as our obligations to repurchase HECM loans.. In addition, we conduct a substantial part of our operations through our subsidiaries. Accordingly, our ability to repay our indebtedness depends on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. Our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness.. 24. Table of Contents. Much of our debt is short-term so we regularly seek to extend or refinance our existing indebtedness. Our ability to extend, renew or refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms, or at all, is uncertain and may be affected by global economic and financial conditions and other factors outside our control. In addition, our ability to incur secured indebtedness (which would generally enable us to achieve better pricing than the incurrence of unsecured indebtedness) depends in part on the value of our assets, which depends, in turn, on the strength of our cash flows and results of operations, and on economic and market conditions and other factors. From time to time in the recent past, we have obtained waivers or amendments of covenants in our pre-Effective Date debt agreements. In addition, in March 2018, we obtained amendments to certain facilities and the 2018 Credit Agreement to, among other things, extend the deadline for providing certain financial statements and increase operational flexibility with respect to certain financial covenants. See the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for more information. If we are unable to obtain needed waivers or amendments in the future, we could experience material adverse consequences.. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service and other obligations or we are unable to extend or refinance our indebtedness, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations.. Despite our current debt levels, we may still incur substantially more debt or take other actions that would intensify the risks discussed above.. Despite our current consolidated debt levels, we and our subsidiaries are permitted to and may incur substantial additional debt in the future, some of which may be secured, subject to the restrictions contained in our debt instruments. Although the 2018 Credit Agreement and Second Lien Notes indenture contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and the additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. Any such indebtedness could increase our leverage and the risks we face from indebtedness. We may also be permitted to take a number of other actions that could have the effect of diminishing our ability to make payments on our indebtedness when due.. Our debt agreements contain covenants that restrict our operations and may inhibit flexibility in operating our business and increasing revenues.. Our 2018 Credit Agreement and Second Lien Notes indenture entered into in February 2018 contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants limit our and certain of our subsidiaries' ability to, among other things:. • incur additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred shares;. • pay dividends on, repurchase or make distributions in respect of our capital stock or make other restricted payments;. • make certain investments;. • sell or transfer assets;. • utilize the proceeds from any sale or transfer of assets;. • create liens;. • consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and. • enter into certain transactions with our affiliates.. The 2018 Credit Agreement also contains financial covenants requiring compliance with certain asset coverage ratios, and beginning with the four consecutive quarterly \"test\" periods ending March 31, 2020, an interest expense coverage ratio and a first lien net leverage ratio. Certain of these covenants are subject to varying interpretation, making it possible that we and our creditors disagree as to whether we have complied with our obligations under our debt agreements. A breach, or alleged breach, of any of these covenants could result in a default and our lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable and to terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the secured lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure such indebtedness. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay amounts due under our indebtedness.. 25. Table of Contents. Our failure to renew or replace one or more of our advance financing facilities or warehouse facilities, or any loss of a material amount of borrowing capacity under such facilities, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity or results of operations.. We depend on our Exit Warehouse Facilities to finance, on a short-term basis, our servicer advances (excluding advances made on loans we subservice that are made, on a short-term basis, with available cash) and our residential loan originations and repurchase activities or obligations, including the repurchase of HECMs out of Ginnie Mae securitization pools. The Exit Warehouse Facilities as well as other financing facilities we may enter into are typically subject to renewal every year and contain provisions that could prevent us from utilizing any unused capacity under any such facility and/or that could accelerate our repayment of amounts outstanding under any such facility. Only servicing advances and residential loans (including repurchased residential loans) that meet certain eligibility requirements as defined in the relevant financing facility agreements are eligible to be financed using such facilities. The Exit Warehouse Facilities require us to maintain a good standing relationship with the GSEs and/or Ginnie Mae, and if any contract governing such relationship were terminated, it would limit or eliminate our ability to fund our borrowing needs. In addition, amounts borrowed under our servicing advance facilities are due on a fixed date (unless extended) and, in certain circumstances, we may be required to repay such amounts before we have been reimbursed for the related advances.. Our failure to renew one or more of these financing facilities, including the Exit Warehouse Facilities, on terms acceptable to us, the acceleration of amounts due under such facilities or our loss of a material amount of borrowing capacity under such facilities, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity or results of operations.. The Exit Warehouse Facilities contain restrictions, covenants, and representations and warranties that, among other conditions, require us to satisfy specified financial and asset quality tests and may restrict our ability to engage in mergers or consolidations. In the past, including recently, we have obtained waivers or amendments from certain of our lenders in order to maintain compliance with certain covenants and other terms of our financing facilities, and we expect to seek waivers or amendments in the future if necessary. See the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of Part II, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a discussion of certain recent amendments and waivers. There is no assurance our lenders would consent to a waiver or amendment in the event of potential noncompliance, and in the past such consent has been, and in the future it may be, conditioned upon the receipt of a cash payment, increased interest rates or other revised terms. If we fail to meet or satisfy any covenants or representations and warranties contained in the Exit Warehouse Facilities or other financing agreements, including the failure to maintain or satisfy requirements imposed by the GSEs or Ginnie Mae, or the failure to comply with applicable law, we could be in default under these agreements and our lenders could elect to declare any and all amounts outstanding under the agreements immediately due and payable, enforce their respective interests against collateral pledged under such agreements, and restrict our ability to make additional borrowings. Many of our financing agreements, including the Exit Warehouse Facilities, contain cross-default provisions, such that if a default occurs under any one agreement, the lenders under our other agreements also could declare a default.. Our business strategy may not be successful in returning us to profitability.. We recorded significant net losses in each of 2016 and 2017. During those years, despite our efforts to reduce our expenses, dispose of certain businesses, eliminate certain activities and improve operations we were not successful in meeting key business goals and generating profits. Our current strategy contemplates further cost reductions, operational enhancements and streamlining of our businesses and reduction of leverage. We cannot control all of the factors that affect our ability to achieve our goals, and some elements of our strategy, such as our goal of improving operational performance, may require expenditures and investments that adversely affect our financial results.. Our business plan also assumes that we will be able to sell the majority of the MSR we originate to third parties who retain us to subservice such MSR. Although we have arrangements pursuant to which we may from time to time sell MSR to NRM, and although we are in discussions with other parties about the possibility of selling MSR to them, we have no firm commitments pursuant to which we can sell MSR and we may be unable to find buyers for MSR in adequate volume or at suitable prices. If we are unable to sell enough MSR in accordance with our plans, we could experience a variety of material adverse consequences, including the failure to achieve our plan goals, liquidity shortages, and a need to reduce origination volumes.. We may be unsuccessful in implementing our strategy and returning us to profitability. Failure to become profitable could result in material adverse consequences for us, including defaults under financing facilities that have minimum profitability covenants, related cross defaults in other financing facilities, a reduction in the number of counterparties that are willing to do business with us (including GSEs, agencies and primary servicers), a loss of key personnel and other significant adverse consequences.. 26. Table of Contents. Our business is highly dependent on U.S. government-sponsored entities or agencies, and any changes in these entities or agencies or their current roles, or any failure by us to maintain our relationships with such entities or agencies, could materially and adversely affect our business, liquidity, financial position and/or results of operations.. The U.S. residential mortgage industry in general and our business in particular are highly dependent on Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae. We receive compensation for servicing loans, most of which are Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae residential loans. In addition, Ditech Financial sells mortgage loans to GSEs, which include mortgage loans in GSE guaranteed securitizations, and is an issuer of MBS guaranteed by Ginnie Mae and collateralized by Ginnie Mae mortgage loans. RMS is an issuer of HMBS, which are guaranteed by Ginnie Mae and collateralized by participation interests in HECMs, which are insured by the FHA.. Ditech Financial is: (i) a Fannie Mae approved seller/servicer pursuant to a Mortgage Selling and Servicing Contract between Ditech Financial and Fannie Mae, dated March 23, 2005, as amended; (ii) a Freddie Mac approved seller/servicer pursuant to a Master Commitment between Ditech Financial and Freddie Mac, dated September 29, 2016, as amended; and (iii) a Ginnie Mae approved issuer/servicer pursuant to (a) an approval letter from Ginnie Mae to Ditech Financial, dated February 26, 2010, as amended, and (b) a Master Servicing Agreement between Ditech Financial and Ginnie Mae, dated October 9, 2015, as amended. Ditech Financial is also a HUD/FHA approved mortgagee, a VA approved non-supervised lender and a USDA approved participant in the USDA Rural Development Single Family Housing Guaranteed Loan Program.. RMS is: (i) a Ginnie Mae approved issuer/servicer pursuant to (a) an approval letter from Ginnie Mae to RMS, dated January 29, 2008, as amended, and (b) a Master Servicing Agreement between Ginnie Mae and RMS, dated May 19, 2008, as amended; (ii) a Fannie Mae approved servicer of reverse mortgages pursuant to a Mortgage Selling and Servicing Contract between RMS and Fannie Mae, dated September 10, 2007, as amended; and (iii) an approved Title I and Title II FHA mortgagee pursuant to Origination Approval Agreements, dated May 8, 2007, as amended.. Our ability to originate and sell mortgage loans under the GSE and Ginnie Mae programs reduces our credit exposure and mortgage inventory financing costs. Our status as a Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac approved seller/servicer is subject to compliance with each GSE's respective selling and servicing guidelines and failure to adhere to such guidelines could result in the unilateral termination or suspension of our status as an approved seller/servicer. Our status as a Ginnie Mae approved issuer/servicer is subject to compliance with Ginnie Mae's issuer and servicing guidelines and failure to adhere to such guidelines could result in the unilateral termination or suspension of our status as an approved issuer/servicer. Our failure to maintain each of our various residential loan origination, servicing, issuer and related approvals with the GSEs and Ginnie Mae could materially and adversely affect our business, liquidity, financial position and results of operations.. In 2017, we earned approximately 37%, 8% and 12% of our total revenues from servicing Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae residential loans, respectively. Our ability to generate revenues in our mortgage originations business is highly dependent on programs administered by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae; during 2017, approximately 50%, 9% and 41% of the mortgage loans our Originations segment sold or securitized based on unpaid principal balance were Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae residential loans, respectively. Our failure to maintain our relationships with Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae could materially and adversely affect our business, liquidity, financial position and results of operations.. There is significant uncertainty regarding the future of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, including with respect to how long they will continue to be in existence, the extent of their roles in the market and what forms they will have. On September 7, 2008, the FHFA placed Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac into conservatorship. As the conservator of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the FHFA controls and directs the operations of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. The roles of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could be significantly reduced or eliminated and the nature of the guarantees provided by such GSEs could be considerably limited relative to historical practice. Any adverse change in the traditional roles of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae in the U.S. mortgage market, any discontinuation of, or significant reduction in, the operations or level of activity of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae in the primary or secondary U.S. mortgage market, or any adverse change in the underwriting guidelines utilized by, and mortgage loan programs supported by, Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae could materially adversely affect our business, liquidity, financial position and results of operations. Additionally, the FHFA has in the past increased guarantee fees that the GSEs charge lenders for guaranteeing the timely payment of principal and interest on their mortgage-backed securities and we cannot assure you that they will not increase such fees in the future. If there is any increase in guarantee fees or changes to their structure this may generally raise lending costs, restrict the availability of credit, particularly to higher risk borrowers, and negatively affect our ability to grow, and the performance of, both our servicing and lending businesses.. 27. Table of Contents. Our mortgage servicing business involves significant operational risks.. Our mortgage servicing business involves, among other things, complex record-keeping, the handling of numerous payments each month, a significant amount of consumer contact, reporting to credit agencies, managing servicing advances and participation in foreclosure and bankruptcy proceedings, all of which are subject to detailed, prescriptive, changing and sometimes unclear regulation, contracts and client requirements, including the requirements of the GSEs, Ginnie Mae and our subservicing clients. Performing all of the tasks involved in mortgage servicing in a compliant, timely and profitable manner involves significant operational risk. Operational risks include poor management oversight and decisions, human error by our servicing employees, weak processes and procedures, inadequate resources devoted to key processes, problems with the numerous systems and technologies that comprise our servicing platform and poor records or data inputs by us or prior servicers from whom we have acquired servicing rights or responsibilities. For these and other reasons, we have experienced and may in the future experience significant operational deficiencies and compliance failures across various parts of our servicing operations. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant expenses associated with the identification and remediation of operational deficiencies and compliance failures and the reduction of operational risk. These cost increases have not been matched by increases in the compensation structure for owners of, or subservicers of, MSR. Operational deficiencies and compliance failures could materially adversely affect our business in many ways, including by damaging our customer relationships, causing us to breach our contractual servicing or subservicing obligations and our obligations under our warehouse, advance financing and other credit facilities and putting us in breach of law or regulation. Such deficiencies and failures have adversely affected our past results of operations and could, in the future, cause a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.. Operational risks could cause us to fail to meet the performance standards required by counterparties such as the GSEs, Ginnie Mae and our subservicing clients, which could in turn lead to a termination of our servicing rights and subservicing contracts. While we continue to take steps intended to improve our servicing performance, we cannot be certain that our efforts will have sufficient or timely results. If we fail to meet applicable performance standards, we could face various material adverse consequences, including a material increase in compensatory fees we are charged by the GSEs (based on performance against benchmarks for various servicing metrics), competitive disadvantage, the inability to win new subservicing business and the termination (potentially for cause and without payment to us of any termination fee or other compensation) of our servicing rights or subservicing contracts.. When we acquire the rights to service mortgages, particularly GSE mortgages, we have in the past, and may in the future, incur liability that is the result of errors or violations of law attributable to prior originators and servicers of such mortgages to the extent applicable law or our contractual arrangements expose us to such liability, which is normally the case absent additional contractual arrangements that are negotiated on a transaction by transaction basis. In certain circumstances, we have obtained contractual arrangements meant to minimize our exposure to such liabilities. Such contractual arrangements can take the form of, for example, liability bifurcation agreements with the GSEs pursuant to which such liabilities are not assumed by us, or an indemnification pursuant to which we are indemnified for such liabilities by the former owners of the MSR. There is no assurance that any such arrangements, even if obtainable, enforceable and collectible, will be sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset the possible liabilities arising from a particular acquisition. Furthermore, there is no assurance that any such indemnification will cover losses resulting from claims that may be asserted against us by a GSE or others with respect to errors or violations that occurred prior to a particular acquisition by us.. A downgrade in our servicer ratings could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. S&P and Moody's rate us as a residential loan servicer. Certain of these ratings have been downgraded in the past, and any of these ratings may be downgraded in the future. Any such downgrade could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, as well as our ability to finance servicing advances and maintain our status as an approved servicer by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae. In particular, the Servicing Guide: Fannie Mae Single Family, published February 15, 2017, and the Selling Guide: Fannie Mae Single Family, published January 31, 2017, contain certain requirements with respect to an approved Fannie Mae servicer's maintenance of minimum servicer ratings. Our failure to maintain favorable or specified ratings may cause our termination as servicer and further impair our ability to consummate future servicing transactions, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Refer to the Ratings section of Part II, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for additional information relating to our servicer ratings.. 28. Table of Contents. An increase in delinquency rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Delinquency rates can have a significant impact on our revenues and expenses and the value of our MSR. For example, an increase in delinquencies may result in lower revenues because, for some GSE and other business, we may only collect servicing fees for performing loans. Additionally, while increased delinquencies may generate higher ancillary fees, including late fees, these fees are not likely to be recoverable in the event that the related loan is liquidated and are generally only recognized as revenue upon collection. In addition, an increase in delinquencies lowers the interest income we receive on cash held in collection and other accounts. Delinquencies can also increase our liability for servicing advances, as we may be required to advance certain payments early in a delinquency, which could impact our liquidity. An increase in delinquencies has in the past resulted, and will result in a higher cost to service due to the increased time and effort required to collect payments from delinquent borrowers. Further, increases in delinquencies could result in lower servicer ratings, the termination of our subservicing contracts or the transfer of servicing away from us, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.. Fannie Mae, with respect to Fannie Mae loans that we service, and Freddie Mac, with respect to Freddie Mac loans that we service, may terminate Ditech Financial as servicer of such loans, with or without cause, and in connection therewith transfer the related servicing rights to a third party.. Under the terms of Ditech Financial's master servicing agreements (including any amendments and addendums thereto) with each of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, Fannie Mae, with respect to Fannie Mae loans that Ditech Financial services, and Freddie Mac, with respect to Freddie Mac loans that Ditech Financial services, may terminate us as servicer of such loans, with or without cause, transfer the servicing rights relating to such loans to a third party and, under certain circumstances, cause such a transfer to occur without payment to us of any consideration in connection therewith. Some provisions of these agreements are open to subjective interpretation or depend upon the judgment or determination of Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac, so we may not be able to determine in advance whether these are grounds for terminating us as servicer or transferring servicing rights away from us.. For example, if Freddie Mac terminated us as a servicer without cause, we would have a right to a specified termination fee; however, if Freddie Mac terminated us as servicer for cause, we would not have any right to a termination fee or other consideration in connection with such termination and the related transfer of servicing rights to another servicer. Events that could allow Freddie Mac to terminate Ditech Financial for cause as servicer of some or all of the Freddie Mac loans we service include, without limitation, the impending or actual insolvency of Ditech Financial or an affiliate thereof; the filing of a voluntary petition by Ditech Financial or an affiliate thereof under federal bankruptcy or state insolvency laws; Ditech Financial's failure to maintain qualified staff and/or adequate facilities to assure the adequacy of servicing of Freddie Mac loans; any weakness or notable change in the financial or organizational status or management of Ditech Financial or an affiliate thereof, including any adverse change in profitability or liquidity that, in the opinion of Freddie Mac, could adversely affect Freddie Mac; Ditech Financial's failure to meet any eligibility requirement, including failure to maintain acceptable net worth; Ditech Financial having delinquency rates or REO rates higher than certain averages; and Freddie Mac's determination that Ditech Financial's overall performance is unacceptable (taking into account, among other things, scorecard results that rate absolute and comparative performance with respect to various measures such as loss mitigation, workout effectiveness, default timeline management, data integrity, investor reporting and alternatives to foreclosure).. Similarly, Fannie Mae has the ability to terminate Ditech Financial as servicer for some or all of the Fannie Mae loans it services, with or without cause. In connection with any such termination by Fannie Mae without cause, we would have a right to a specified termination fee; however, in connection with any such termination by Fannie Mae for cause, we would not have any right to a termination fee or other consideration in connection with such termination and the related transfer of servicing rights to another servicer. Events that could allow Fannie Mae to terminate us for cause as servicer of some or all of the Fannie Mae loans we service include, without limitation, a breach of the mortgage selling and servicing contract by Ditech Financial; unacceptable performance as determined by Fannie Mae with regard to Ditech Financial's compliance with, among other things, servicer performance measurements and any written performance improvement plan; Ditech Financial's insolvency, the adjudication of Ditech Financial as bankrupt or the execution by Ditech Financial of a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors; any change in Ditech Financial's financial status that, in Fannie Mae's opinion, materially and adversely affects Ditech Financial's ability to provide satisfactory servicing of mortgages; the sale of a majority interest in Ditech Financial without Fannie Mae's prior written consent; a change in Ditech Financial's financial or business condition, or in its operations, which, in Fannie Mae's sole judgment, is material and adverse; Ditech Financial has certain delinquency rates or REO rates more than 50% higher than the average of such rates for certain specified Fannie Mae portfolios; and any judgment, order, finding or regulatory action to which Ditech Financial is subject that would materially and adversely affect Ditech Financial's ability to comply with the terms or conditions of its Fannie Mae contract.. If Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac were to terminate us as an approved servicer, or transfer or otherwise terminate a material portion of our servicing rights, this could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations.. 29. Table of Contents. Ginnie Mae, with respect to GMBS for which we are the issuer and the servicer of the underlying mortgage loans, may terminate Ditech Financial as the issuer of such mortgage-backed securities and as servicer of such loans, with cause, and in connection therewith transfer the related servicing rights to a third party.. Under the terms of the Ginnie MBS Guide and the required Ginnie Mae Guaranty Agreement that is executed in connection with each GMBS we issue (together with related documents, the Ginnie Mae Guaranty Agreement), Ginnie Mae may terminate Ditech Financial for cause as the issuer of GMBS and as servicer of the underlying mortgage loans, and transfer all of our rights as issuer and servicer, including the servicing rights relating to the mortgage loans underlying the GMBS issued by us, to a third party without payment to us of any consideration in connection therewith. Events that could allow Ginnie Mae to terminate us as issuer and servicer include, without limitation, the impending or actual insolvency of Ditech Financial; any withdrawal or suspension of Ditech Financial's status as an approved mortgagee by FHA or an approved seller/servicer by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac; or any change to Ditech Financial's business condition that materially and adversely affects its ability to carry out its obligations as an approved Ginnie Mae issuer. A default by Ditech Financial's affiliate, RMS, under RMS's Ginnie Mae Guaranty Agreements may also result in an event of default under Ditech Financial's Ginnie Mae Guaranty Agreement under a cross-default agreement among Ginnie Mae, Ditech Financial and RMS, which could result in our termination as issuer and servicer of all GMBS and HMBS. If we were to have our Ginnie Mae issuer and servicing rights transferred or otherwise terminated, this could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations.. Our subservicing clients can typically terminate our subservicing contracts with or without cause.. As of December 31, 2017, we were the subservicer for 0.7 million accounts with an unpaid principal loan balance of $102.7 billion. These subserviced accounts represented approximately 49% of our total servicing portfolio based on unpaid principal loan balance at that date. Our largest subservicing customer, NRM, represented approximately 69% of our total subservicing portfolio based on unpaid principal loan balance on December 31, 2017. Our next largest subservicing customer represented approximately 21% of our total subservicing portfolio based on unpaid principal loan balance on December 31, 2017. Under our subservicing contracts, the primary servicers for whom we conduct subservicing activities have the right to terminate such contracts, with or without cause, with generally 60 to 90 days' notice to us. In some instances, our subservicing contracts require payment to us of deboarding, deconversion or other fees in connection with any termination thereof, while in other instances there is little to no consideration owed to us in connection with the termination of a subservicing contract.. For example, if NRM fails to renew the NRM Subservicing Agreement, it will owe Ditech Financial a deconversion fee. If NRM elects to terminate the NRM Subservicing Agreement without cause, it will owe Ditech Financial a deconversion fee and be responsible for certain servicing transfer costs. NRM may also terminate the NRM Subservicing Agreement immediately for cause upon the occurrence of certain events, some of which have already occurred with respect to certain mortgage loans being subserviced by us under such agreement as described herein. Upon any termination of the NRM Subservicing Agreement by NRM for cause, Ditech Financial will not be entitled to receive any deconversion fee, will be responsible for certain servicing transfer costs and will owe NRM a transfer fee if such termination occurs within five years from the effective date of the agreement.. Additionally, from time to time, clients for whom we conduct subservicing activities could sell the mortgage servicing rights relating to some or all of the loans we subservice for such client, which could lead to a termination of our subservicing engagement with respect to such mortgage servicing rights and a decrease in our subservicing revenue.. If subservicing agreements relating to a material portion of our servicing portfolio were to be terminated, this would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. We expect to continue to seek additional subservicing opportunities, which could exacerbate these risks.. We are required to make servicing advances that can be subject to delays in recovery or may not be recoverable in certain circumstances.. During any period in which a mortgage loan borrower is not making payments, we are required under some of our mortgage servicing and subservicing agreements to advance our own funds to meet contractual principal and interest remittance requirements for credit and/or MSR owners. In addition, we must pay property taxes, insurance premiums, legal expenses and make other protective advances on behalf of the borrower. We also advance funds to maintain, repair and market real estate properties on behalf of credit owners. Our obligation to make such advances may increase in connection with any future acquisitions of servicing portfolios and any additional subservicing contracts. In certain situations, our contractual obligations may require us to make certain advances for which we may not be reimbursed.. 30. Table of Contents. Servicing advances are generally recovered when a mortgage loan delinquency is resolved, the loan is repaid or refinanced, a liquidation occurs, or through the agency claim process. In addition, recovery of advances we make as subservicer are subject to our compliance with procedures and limitations set forth in the applicable subservicing agreement, and we typically depend upon the MSR owner that has engaged us as subservicer to reimburse us for such advances. Regulatory or other actions that lengthen the foreclosure process may increase the amount of servicing advances we are required to make, lengthen the time it takes for us to be reimbursed for such advances and increase the costs incurred by us in connection with such advances. We have been, and we may in the future be, unable to collect reimbursement for advances because we have failed to meet the applicable requirements for reimbursement, including making timely requests for such reimbursement, providing documentation to support the advance, and seeking required approval before making an advance. We have experienced delays in the collection of reimbursements for advances in the past. Additional or significant delays in our ability to collect advances could adversely affect our liquidity, and our inability to be reimbursed for advances would adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. When we purchase MSR from prior servicers, we may also acquire outstanding servicer and protective advances related to those rights. In our agreements under which we have acquired MSR, the prior servicer generally represents that the related advances are eligible for reimbursement by the credit owner and indemnifies us for any breach of this representation. However, the prior servicer's indemnification obligation with respect to advances generally expires at a specified date, and in order to claim indemnification we may have to satisfy other conditions precedent. Our ability to file indemnity claims with the prior servicer before the expiration date and to meet other conditions precedent may be affected by factors outside our control. For example, if we submit claims for advance reimbursement from the credit owner and such credit owner fails to resolve such claims before the expiration date elapses, we may be unable to seek indemnity for such claims. In early 2017, we submitted a significant number and value of claims for advance reimbursement to a prior servicer from which we made a significant MSR acquisition in 2013. When we submit a claim for reimbursement from the prior servicer, that servicer may dispute whether and to what extent the indemnity applies, and resolving such disputes or otherwise establishing the validity of our claim could be time consuming and costly, and delays in recovering advances could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. As a result of the foregoing, despite the indemnification arrangements, we may experience losses relating to advances that we have acquired from prior servicers.. We maintain an allowance for uncollectible advances based on our analysis of the underlying loans, their historical loss experience, and recoverability of the advances pursuant to the terms of the underlying servicing or subservicing agreements. If for any reason we are required to increase our allowance in any period, this could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation, and the failure to collect advances could materially adversely affect our cash flows.. Our failure to maintain or grow our servicing business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Our servicing portfolio is subject to runoff, meaning that mortgage loans serviced by us may be repaid at maturity, prepaid prior to maturity, or liquidated through foreclosure, deed-in-lieu of foreclosure or other liquidation process. While we seek to replenish our servicing portfolio through the addition of subservicing contracts, through our own MSR originations and from acquisitions of MSR from third parties, we cannot assure you that we will continue to seek to replenish our servicing portfolio utilizing each of these methods or that we will be successful in maintaining the size of our servicing portfolio.. Our ability to maintain or grow our servicing business may depend, in part, on our ability to acquire servicing rights from, and/or enter into subservicing contracts with, third parties. This depends on many factors, including the willingness and ability of the current owners of servicing rights to transfer such servicing rights or enter into subservicing agreements with respect to such servicing rights, and in most cases GSEs and/or government authorities granting consent for such servicing transfers. In considering whether to sell servicing rights to us or to engage us as a subservicer (or to approve such matters), commercial counterparties, GSEs and government authorities may consider various factors, including our financial condition, our ability to meet contractual servicing obligations, the performance of portfolios we service relative to absolute standards or to the performance of portfolios serviced by others, our record of compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, and our reputation.. There is significant competition in the non-bank servicing sector for servicing portfolios made available for purchase or subservicing. This and other factors could increase the price we pay for such portfolios or reduce subservicing margins, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In determining the purchase price we are willing to pay for servicing rights and the fee for which we are willing to accept subservicing engagements, management makes certain assumptions regarding various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including, among other things:. • origination vintage and geography;. • loan-to-value ratio;. • stratification of FICO scores;. • the rates of prepayment and repayment within the underlying pools of mortgage loans;. 31. Table of Contents. • projected rates of delinquencies, defaults and liquidations;. • future interest rates;. • our cost to service the loans;. • incentive and ancillary fee income; and. • amounts of future servicing advances.. The methodology we use to determine the purchase price we are willing to pay for servicing rights and the fee for which we are willing to accept subservicing engagements is complex and management's assumptions about matters affecting pricing may prove to be inaccurate. As a result, we may not be successful in completing acquisitions or subservicing arrangements on favorable terms or at all or we may overpay or not realize anticipated benefits of acquisitions or subservicing arrangements in our business development pipeline.. Although we are currently planning to increase the proportion of subservicing in our servicing portfolio, we may not be successful in achieving this goal. If we fail to do so, our servicing portfolio could decline or we may be required to invest more of our capital in servicing rights than anticipated.. Changes in prepayment rates on loans we service due to changes in interest rates, government mortgage programs or other factors could result in reduced earnings or losses.. Changes in prepayment rates on loans we service could result in reduced earnings or losses. Many factors beyond our control affect prepayment rates, including changes in interest rates and government mortgage programs. Many borrowers can prepay their mortgage loans through refinancings when mortgage rates decrease. Any increase in prepayments could reduce our servicing portfolio and have a significant impact on our net servicing revenue and fees. For example:. • If prepayment speeds increase, our net servicing revenue and fees will decline more rapidly than anticipated because of the greater than expected decrease in the number of loans or unpaid principal balance on which those fees are based.. • Amortization of servicing rights carried at amortized cost is a significant reduction to net servicing revenue and fees. Since we amortize servicing rights in proportion to total expected income over the life of a portfolio, an increase in prepayment speeds leads to increased amortization as we revise downward our estimate of total expected income. Faster prepayment speeds will also result in higher compensating interest expense.. • The change in fair value of servicing rights carried at fair value can have a significant impact on net servicing revenue and fees. We base the price we pay for servicing rights and assess the value of our servicing rights on, among other things, our projection of servicing-related cash flows from the related pool of mortgage loans. Our expectation of prepayment speeds is a significant assumption underlying those cash flow projections. If prepayment speeds increase more than expected, we may be required to write down the value of our servicing rights, which would have a negative impact on our net servicing revenue and fees.. We cannot accurately predict the amount of incentive payments and ancillary fees we will earn on our servicing portfolio.. We earn incentive payments and ancillary fees in connection with servicing our residential loan portfolio. The amount of such payments and fees, and the timing of our receipt of such payments and fees, is dependent upon many factors, some of which are not in our control. For example, some of our servicing contracts contain periodic performance payments that are determined by formulas and/or are tied to the performance of our competitors. We also earn certain ancillary fees, such as, for example, late fees, the amount of which can vary significantly from period to period, in most instances due to circumstances over which we have no control. In certain circumstances, incentive payments and ancillary fees can be, and have been, modified or eliminated by a credit owner with little or no notice to us. If certain of our assumptions relating to the amount of incentive payments or ancillary fees we expect to earn and collect in a given period prove to be materially inaccurate, due to the reduction or elimination of any of these fees or otherwise, or if regulators challenge the legitimacy of any of these fees, this could adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations.. 32. Table of Contents. Lender-placed insurance is under increased scrutiny by regulators and, as a result of the recent sale of substantially all of our insurance agency business, income from sales commissions for lender-placed insurance has been eliminated; however, we remain subject to liability for the period of time during which we received such commissions.. Under certain circumstances, when borrowers fail to maintain hazard insurance on their residences, the owner or servicer of the loan may procure such insurance to protect the loan owner's collateral and pass the premium cost for such insurance on to the borrower. Prior to February 1, 2017, the date we sold our principal insurance agency and substantially all of our insurance agency business, this agency acted as an agent for this purpose, placing the insurance coverage with a third-party carrier for which this agency, in certain circumstances, earned a commission.. Our insurance revenues were historically aligned with the size of our servicing portfolio. However, due to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac restrictions that became effective on June 1, 2014, as well as other regulatory and litigation developments with respect to lender-placed insurance, our lender-placed insurance commissions began to decrease materially beginning in 2014. On February 1, 2017, we completed the sale of our principal insurance agency and substantially all of our insurance agency business. As a result of this sale, we no longer receive any insurance commissions on lender-placed insurance policies. Commencing February 1, 2017, another insurance agency owned by us (and retained by us following the aforementioned sale) began to provide insurance marketing services to third-party insurance agencies and carriers with respect to voluntary insurance policies, including hazard insurance. This insurance agency receives premium-based commissions for its insurance marketing services.. Notwithstanding the fact that we no longer receive sales commissions on lender-placed insurance, we remain subject to liability for the period of time during which we received such commissions. Under the agreements we entered into in connection with the sale of our principal insurance agency and substantially all of our insurance agency business, we undertook certain ongoing obligations related to the lender-placed and voluntary hazard business, including obligations relating to the provision of services, the continued conduct of our servicing business and certain referral activities. If we fail to perform these obligations, we could have potentially significant liabilities under these agreements.. We may not be able to grow our loan originations business, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our strategy contemplates that, over the next several years, we will capture significant market share and increase revenue in our originations business, driven primarily from increased outbound contact efforts and improved retention. We face many challenges in seeking to implement that strategy. For example, during the next several years we expect the overall size of the national mortgage market will shrink, reflecting the end of key government refinancing programs (such as HARP) and potentially rising interest rates. To achieve our goals, we will need to reorient our originations group to have a greater focus on purchase money mortgages, whereas historically we have emphasized refinancings and have originated relatively few purchase money mortgages, except through our correspondent channel. We are still developing our marketing plans, including digital marketing, to build the purchase money business. In addition, we will need to attract new customers who are not customers of our servicing operations, and to do that we will need to develop new marketing approaches and outbound calling and contact methods and may need to introduce new technologies, such as mobile technologies and the ability to take mortgage applications through our website. We will need to hire and train significant numbers of new loan officers and other employees to support our outbound efforts. We expect to maintain or expand our correspondent channel, and will continue to face intense competition and margin pressure in that area. Many of the elements of the origination strategy require us to do things we have not done in the past, and our efforts may not be successful or may be more expensive and time consuming than we expect. Our implementation efforts will also be dependent upon third parties, such as technology and marketing vendors. If we are unsuccessful in expanding our originations business according to our plans, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. We may be subject to liability for potential violations of predatory lending, antidiscrimination and/or other laws applicable to our mortgage loan originations and servicing businesses, which could adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and business.. Various federal, state and local laws are designed to discourage predatory lending, discrimination based on certain characteristics and other practices. For example, loans that meet HOEPA's high-cost coverage tests are subject to special disclosure requirements and restrictions on loan terms. Some states have enacted, or may enact, similar laws or regulations, which in some cases impose restrictions and requirements greater than those in HOEPA. Failure of mortgage loan originators such as Ditech Financial to comply with these laws could subject such originators, including us, to monetary penalties and could result in borrowers rescinding the affected loans. Lawsuits have been brought in various states making claims against originators, servicers, assignees and purchasers of \"high-cost\" loans for violations of state law. Named defendants in these cases have included numerous participants within the mortgage market. If our mortgage loans are found to have been originated in violation of such laws, we could incur losses, which could materially and adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and business.. 33. Table of Contents. Antidiscrimination statutes, such as the Fair Housing Act and the ECOA, prohibit creditors from discriminating against loan applicants and borrowers based on certain characteristics, such as race, religion and national origin. Various federal regulatory agencies and departments, including the DOJ and CFPB, take the position that these laws apply not only to intentional discrimination, but also to neutral practices that have a \"disparate impact\" on protected classes. These regulatory agencies, as well as consumer advocacy groups and plaintiffs' attorneys, are becoming more aggressive in asserting claims that the practices of lenders and loan servicers result in a \"disparate impact\" on protected classes. While the U.S. Supreme Court has held that the \"disparate impact\" theory applies to cases brought under the Fair Housing Act, the U.S. Supreme Court was not presented with, and did not decide, the question of whether the theory applies under the ECOA. Thus, it remains unclear whether and to what extent the \"disparate impact\" theory applies under the ECOA and, as a result, we and the residential mortgage industry must attempt to comply with shifting and potentially conflicting interpretations as to such application, and we could be exposed to potential liability for any failure to comply.. The expiration of, or changes to, government mortgage modification, refinancing or other programs could adversely affect future revenues.. Under HAMP, HARP and similar government programs, a participating servicer may be entitled to receive financial incentives in connection with any mortgage refinancing or modification plans it enters into with eligible borrowers and subsequent success fees to the extent that a borrower remains current in any agreed upon loan modification. We participate in and have dedicated numerous resources to HAMP and HARP, benefiting from fees and from significant loan originations volumes. The HAMP application deadline was December 31, 2016 and the HARP program is scheduled to expire on December 31, 2018. As a result of the termination or expiration of these programs, our refinancing and modification volumes, revenues and margins are expected to decline in 2018. Further changes in the legislation or regulations relating to these or other loan modification programs, including changes to borrower qualification requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Termination or expiration of the HAMP or HARP programs could have a significant adverse effect on our originations volumes, revenues and margins.. We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about borrowers and counterparties and any misrepresented information could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In deciding whether to extend credit to borrowers or to enter into other transactions with counterparties, we rely on information furnished to us by or on behalf of borrowers and counterparties, including income and credit history, financial statements and other financial information. We also rely on representations of borrowers and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. If any of this information is intentionally or negligently misrepresented and such misrepresentation is not detected prior to loan funding, which has occurred from time to time, the value of the loan has been, and may be, significantly lower than expected. Whether a misrepresentation is made by the loan applicant, the mortgage broker, correspondent lender, another third party or one of our employees, we generally bear the risk of loss associated with the misrepresentation. We, however, may not have detected or may not detect all misrepresented information in our loan originations or from our business clients. Therefore, any such misrepresented information could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Within our correspondent channel, the correspondent lenders with whom we do business underwrite and fund mortgage loans, then sell the closed mortgage loans to us. During the third quarter of 2016, we re-entered the wholesale originations channel. Within the wholesale channel we originate mortgage loans for borrowers referred to us by mortgage brokers. These loans are underwritten and funded by us and generally close in our name, and we bear the underwriting risk with respect to such loans from a regulatory perspective, but we typically rely upon the mortgage brokers with whom we do business to interact with the borrowers in order to gather the information necessary for us to underwrite and fund such loans. Our correspondent and wholesale counterparties are generally obligated to repurchase any loans we originated through such counterparties for which a misrepresentation has been made, and/or agree to indemnify us for certain losses we may incur in connection with any such misrepresentation. However, such counterparties may not have sufficient resources to repurchase loans from us or make indemnification payments to us, and any failure by such counterparties to satisfy any applicable repurchase or indemnification requirements could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 34. Table of Contents. We may be required to make indemnification payments relating to, and/or repurchase, mortgage loans we sold or securitized, or will sell or securitize, if our representations and warranties relating to these mortgage loans are inaccurate at the time the loan is sold or securitized, or under other circumstances.. To finance our future operations, we generally sell or securitize the loans that we originate or purchase through our correspondent and other channels. Our contracts relating to the sale or securitization of such loans contain provisions that require us, under certain circumstances, to make indemnification payments relating to, and/or repurchase, such loans. Our indemnification and repurchase obligations vary contract by contract, but such contracts typically require us to either make an indemnification payment and/or repurchase a loan if, among other things:. • our representations and warranties relating to the loan are materially inaccurate, including but not limited to representations concerning loan underwriting, regulatory compliance or property appraisals;. • we fail to secure adequate mortgage insurance within a certain period after closing; or. • the borrower fails to make certain initial loan payments due to the purchaser.. We believe that our maximum repurchase exposure under such contracts is the origination UPB of all mortgage loans we have sold or securitized. At December 31, 2017, our maximum exposure to repurchases due to potential breaches of representations and warranties was $69.0 billion and was based on the original UPB of loans sold from the beginning of 2013 through the year ended December 31, 2017, adjusted for voluntary payments made by the borrower on loans for which we perform servicing. To recognize the potential mortgage loan repurchase or indemnification losses, we have recorded a reserve of $16.8 million at December 31, 2017. In 2017, we incurred losses of $1.7 million related to such indemnification and repurchase activity. If our mortgage loan originations increase in the future, our indemnification and repurchase requests may also increase. During periods of elevated mortgage payment delinquency rates and declining housing prices, originators have experienced, and may in the future continue to experience, an increase in loan repurchase and indemnification claims due to actual or alleged breaches of representations and warranties in connection with the sale or servicing of mortgage loans. The estimate of our loan repurchase and indemnification liability is subjective and based upon our projections of the future incidence of loan repurchase and indemnification claims, as well as loss severities. Losses incurred in connection with loan repurchase and indemnification claims may be in excess of our estimates (including our estimate of liabilities we will assume in an acquisition and factor into our purchase price). Our reserve for indemnification and repurchase obligations may increase in the future. If we are required to make indemnification payments with respect to, and/or repurchase, mortgage loans that we originate and sell or securitize in amounts that result in losses that exceed our reserve, this could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. From time to time, the FHFA proposes revisions to the GSEs' standard representation and warranty framework, under which the GSEs require lenders to repurchase mortgage loans under certain circumstances. For example, in January 2013, the FHFA sought to relieve lenders of obligations to repurchase loans that had clean payment histories for 36 months. In May 2014, the FHFA and the GSEs announced additional clarifications. We cannot predict how recent or future changes to the GSEs' representation and warranty framework will impact our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.. We service and securitize reverse loans and, until early 2017, originated reverse loans, which subjects us to risks and could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.. The principal reverse loan product we originated and currently service is the HECM, an FHA-insured loan that must comply with FHA and other regulatory requirements. The reverse loan business is subject to substantial risks, including market, credit, interest rate, liquidity, operational, reputational and legal risks. A reverse loan (e.g., a HECM) is a loan available to seniors aged 62 or older that allows homeowners to borrow money against the value of their home. We depend on our ability to securitize reverse loans, subsequent draws, mortgage insurance premiums and servicing fees, and our liquidity and profitability would be adversely affected if our ability to access the securitization market were to be limited or if the margins we earn in connection with such securitizations were to be reduced. Defaults on reverse loans leading to foreclosures may occur if borrowers fail to meet maintenance obligations, fail to pay taxes or home insurance premiums, fail to meet occupancy requirements or the last remaining borrower passes away. An increase in foreclosure rates may increase our cost of servicing. We may become subject to negative publicity in the event that defaults on reverse mortgages lead to foreclosures or evictions of homeowners.. 35. Table of Contents. As a reverse loan servicer, we are responsible for funding any credit drawdowns by borrowers in a timely manner, remitting to credit owners interest accrued, paying for interest shortfalls, and funding advances such as taxes and home insurance premiums. During any period in which a borrower is not making required real estate tax and property insurance premium payments, we may be required under servicing agreements to advance our own funds to pay property taxes, insurance premiums, legal expenses and other protective advances. We also may be required to advance funds to maintain, repair and market real estate properties. In certain situations, our contractual obligations may require us to make certain advances for which we may not be reimbursed. In addition, in the event a reverse loan serviced by us defaults or becomes delinquent, the repayment to us of the advance may be delayed until the reverse loan is repaid or refinanced or liquidation occurs. A delay in our ability to collect advances may adversely affect our liquidity, and our inability to be reimbursed for advances could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Advances are typically recovered upon weekly or monthly reimbursement or from securitization in the market. We could receive requests for advances in excess of amounts we are able to fund, which could materially and adversely affect our liquidity. All of the above factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.. Our reverse mortgage business has been unprofitable and we expect losses to continue in this segment.. Our reverse mortgage business generated significant losses before income tax in each of 2016 and 2017. We expect to continue to generate losses in that segment. We service a substantial portfolio of reverse loans and expect to incur continued losses on that servicing activity. We expect these losses will be driven by the costs of servicing defaulted reverse loans that are a part of our securitized portfolio, including appraisal-based claims, shortfalls between the debenture rate we receive on defaulted loans and the note rate we must continue to pay, property preservation expenses, curtailment costs and other servicing costs. To mitigate the expected losses in the reverse segment, in 2017 we ceased originating new reverse mortgages, having concluded that the cost of expanding the originations business was no longer justified based on probabilities of successfully growing that business to scale. We will continue to fund undrawn amounts available to borrowers of reverse loans we have made. We expect our results to continue to include meaningful revenues from HECM IDL funding activity for the next several years; however, such amounts will be lower in the following years due to our decision to exit the originations business.. We have been evaluating options for our reverse mortgage business, including the possibility of selling some or all of its assets or pursuing alternative solutions for the business in collaboration with other parties. We cannot be certain whether or on what terms we will be able to consummate any transaction involving our reverse mortgage business or whether any such transaction would reduce our expected reverse mortgage losses. As of December 31, 2017, the net carrying value of our Reverse Mortgage segment securitized loan book was a net liability of approximately $84.2 million.. If our estimated liability with respect to interest curtailment obligations arising out of servicing errors is inaccurate, or additional errors are found, and we are required to record additional material amounts, there may be an adverse impact on our results of operations or financial condition.. Subsequent to the completion of our acquisition of RMS, we discovered a failure by RMS to record certain liabilities to HUD, FHA and/or credit owners related to servicing errors by RMS. FHA regulations provide that servicers meet a series of event-specific timeframes during the default, foreclosure, conveyance, and mortgage insurance claim cycles. Failure to timely meet any processing deadline may stop the accrual of debenture interest otherwise payable in satisfaction of a claim under the FHA mortgage insurance contract and the servicer may be responsible to HUD for debenture interest that is not self-curtailed by the servicer, or for making the credit owner whole for any interest curtailed by FHA due to not meeting the required event-specific timeframes.. We had a curtailment obligation liability of $106.1 million at December 31, 2017 related to the foregoing, which reflects management's best estimate of the probable incurred claim. The curtailment liability is recorded in payables and accrued liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets. We assumed $46.0 million of this liability through the acquisition of RMS, which resulted in a corresponding offset to goodwill and deferred tax assets. During the year ended December 31, 2017, we recorded a provision, net of expected third-party recoveries, related to the curtailment liability of $14.0 million. We have potential estimated maximum financial statement exposure for an additional $147.7 million related to similar claims, which are reasonably possible, but which we believe are primarily the responsibility of third parties (e.g., prior servicers and/or credit owners). Our potential exposure to a substantial portion of this additional risk relates to the possibility that such third parties may claim that we are responsible for the servicing liability or that we exacerbated an existing failure by the third party. The actual amount, if any, of this exposure is difficult to estimate and requires significant management judgment as curtailment obligations continue to be an industry issue. While we are pursuing, and will continue to pursue, mitigation efforts to reduce both the direct exposure and the reasonably possible third-party-related exposure, we cannot assure you that any such efforts will be successful.. We had a curtailment obligation liability of $34.8 million at December 31, 2017 related to Ditech Financial's mortgage loan servicing, which we assumed through an acquisition of servicing rights. We are obligated to service the related mortgage loans in accordance with Ginnie Mae requirements, including repayment to credit owners for advances and interest curtailment. The curtailment liability is recorded in payables and accrued liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets.. 36. Table of Contents. We cannot assure you that we will not discover additional facts resulting in changes to our estimated liability. To the extent we are required to record additional amounts as liabilities, there may be an adverse impact on our results of operations or financial condition.. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings and Note 30 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.. We may be unable to fund our HECM repurchase obligations, and/or face delays in our ability to make such repurchases, or we may be unable to convey repurchased HECM loans to the FHA, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.. We issue HMBS collateralized by HECM loans we originated and HECM tails. Under the Ginnie Mae HMBS program, we are required to repurchase a HECM loan from an HMBS pool we have issued when the outstanding principal balance of the HECM loan is equal to or greater than 98% of the maximum claim amount. There can be no assurance that we will have access to the funding necessary to satisfy our repurchase obligations, particularly if our actual repurchase obligations materially exceed our estimated repurchase obligations. See the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for additional information.. When we repurchase a HECM loan that is not in default from an HMBS pool, we must fund such repurchase until we convey the repurchased HECM loan to and receive reimbursement from the FHA, which generally occurs within 90 days of repurchase (assuming the repurchased loan continues to perform during such time and there are no other factors that cause a delay in conveying the repurchased HECM loan to the FHA). If a repurchased HECM loan goes into default (e.g., if the borrower has failed to pay real estate taxes or property insurance premiums) following our repurchase of such loan from an HMBS pool but prior to our conveyance of such loan to the FHA, or is in default at the time we repurchase such loan from an HMBS pool, the FHA will not accept such loan and we must continue to service such loan until the default is cured or we otherwise satisfy FHA requirements relating to foreclosure of the loan and sell the underlying property. Thus, we are exposed to financing risk when we must repurchase a HECM loan from an HMBS pool, which risk is exacerbated if such loan is in default at the time of repurchase or goes into default prior to our conveyance of such loan to the FHA. In addition, we may be exposed to risk of loss of principal when a HECM loan goes into default, which risk is exacerbated for defaulted loans we seek to foreclose upon. Foreclosure of a HECM loan can be an expensive and lengthy process that could have a substantial negative effect on our anticipated return on the foreclosed HECM loan, especially in circumstances where we make an appraisal-based claim to the FHA with respect to a HECM loan because we have not been able to liquidate the underlying property for an acceptable price within the timeframe established by the FHA. The number of appraisal-based claims we make to the FHA is impacted by a variety of factors, including real estate market conditions and the geographic composition of our HECM loan portfolio. If we make a significant number of appraisal-based claims to the FHA this could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.. During 2017, our HECM repurchases amounted to approximately $1.3 billion, with a balance of approximately $808.5 million at the end of 2017, an increase from approximately $347.0 million at the end of 2016. We expect our repurchase obligations to increase through 2018 and in subsequent years, but the amount of repurchase obligations we will incur in any specific period in the future is uncertain, as it will be affected by, among other things, the rate at which borrowers draw down on amounts available under their HECM loans. In addition, the balance of funds we must commit to repurchases (and the related cost of such funding) will depend in part on how long we must hold and service such loans after repurchasing them, and recent regulatory changes and practices have adversely affected the amount of time we must hold and service such loans following repurchase. As our funding needs increase for repurchased HECMs, we will seek to enter into new, or increase the capacity of existing, lending facilities to provide a portion of such funds; however, we cannot be certain such new facilities will be available or that our existing facilities will be extended or increased.. When we securitize HECM loans into HMBS, we are required to covenant and warrant to Ginnie Mae, among other things, that the HECM loans related to each participation included in the HMBS are eligible under the requirements of the National Housing Act and the Ginnie Mae Mortgage-Backed Securities Guide, and that we will take all actions necessary to continue to ensure the HECM loans continued eligibility. The Ginnie Mae HMBS program requires that we repurchase the participation related to any HECM loan that does not meet the requirements of the Ginnie Mae Mortgage-Backed Securities Guide. Significant repurchase requirements could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations.. If we are unable to fund our HECM repurchase obligations, for example because new or increased lending facilities are not available or in the event that our repurchase obligations in any period significantly exceed our expectations, face delays in our ability to make such repurchases, or are unable to convey repurchased HECM loans to the FHA, our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. 37. Table of Contents. We may suffer operating losses as a result of not being fully reimbursed for certain costs and interest expenses on our HECM loans, or if we fail to originate or service such loans in conformity with the FHA's guidelines.. The FHA will reimburse us for most HECM loan losses incurred by us, up to the maximum claim amount, if, upon disposition of the collateral a deficit exists between the value of the collateral and the loan balance. However, there are certain costs and expenses that the FHA will not reimburse. Additionally, the FHA pays the FHA debenture rate instead of the loan interest rate from the date the loan becomes due and payable to the date of disposition of the property or final appraisal. In the event the note rate we are required to pay to an HMBS investor exceeds the FHA debenture rate, we will suffer an interest rate loss.. To obtain such reimbursement from the FHA, we must file a claim under the FHA mortgage insurance contract. Under certain circumstances, if we file a reimbursement claim that is inaccurate, we could be the subject of a claim under the False Claims Act, which imposes liability on any person who knowingly makes a false or fraudulent claim for payment to the U.S. government. Potential penalties are significant, as these actions may result in treble damages.. Additionally, if we fail to service HECM loans in conformity with the FHA's guidelines, we could lose our right to service the portfolio or be subject to financial penalties that could affect our ability to receive loss claims or result in the curtailment of FHA debenture rate reimbursement. The FHA may also at its discretion request indemnification from a lender on a possible loss on a HECM loan if it determines that the loan was not originated or serviced in conformity with its rules or regulations.. A loss of RMS' approved status under reverse loan programs operated by FHA, HUD or Ginnie Mae could adversely affect our business.. In order to service HECM loans, RMS must maintain its status as an approved FHA mortgagee and an approved Ginnie Mae issuer and servicer. RMS must comply with FHA's and Ginnie Mae's respective regulations, guides, handbooks, mortgagee letters and all participants' memoranda. If RMS defaults under its program obligations to Ginnie Mae, Ginnie Mae has a right to terminate the approved status of RMS, seize the MSR of RMS without compensation (which includes the right to be reimbursed for outstanding advances from the FHA), demand indemnification for its losses, and impose administrative sanctions, which may include civil money penalties.. Each of our subsidiaries that is a Ginnie Mae issuer (i.e. Ditech Financial and RMS) has also entered into a cross default agreement with Ginnie Mae, which provides that, upon the default by a subsidiary under an applicable Ginnie Mae program agreement, Ginnie Mae will have the right to (i) declare a default on all other pools and loan packages of that subsidiary and all pools and loan packages of any affiliated Ginnie Mae issuer that executed the cross default agreement and (ii) exercise any other remedies available under applicable law against each of the affiliated Ginnie Mae issuers. As a result, a default by RMS under its obligations to Ginnie Mae could lead to Ginnie Mae declaring a default by Ditech Financial in relation to its obligations to Ginnie Mae.. Any discontinuation of, or significant reduction or material change in, the operation of the FHA, HUD or government entities like Ginnie Mae, or the loss of RMS' approved FHA mortgagee or Ginnie Mae issuer or servicer status, could have a material adverse effect on our overall business and our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. If we are unable to fund our tail commitments or securitize our HECM loans (including tails), this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations.. We have originated and continue to service HECM loans under which the borrower has additional undrawn borrowing capacity in the form of undrawn lines of credit. We are obligated to fund future borrowings drawn on that capacity. As of December 31, 2017, our commitment to fund additional borrowing capacity was $1.0 billion. In addition, we are required to make interest payments on HMBS issued in respect of HECM loans and to pay mortgage insurance premiums on behalf of HECM borrowers. We normally fund these obligations on a short-term basis using our cash resources, and from time to time securitize these amounts (along with our servicing fees) through the issuance of tails. If our cash resources are insufficient to fund these amounts and we are unable to fund them through the securitization of such tails, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations.. 38. Table of Contents. A downgrade in our credit ratings could negatively affect our cost of, and ability to access, capital.. Our ability to obtain adequate and cost effective financing depends in part on our credit ratings. Our credit ratings have been downgraded in the past, and are subject to revision, including downgrade, or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. A negative change in our ratings outlook or any downgrade in our current credit ratings by the rating agencies that provide such ratings could adversely affect our cost of borrowing and/or access to sources of liquidity and capital. Such a downgrade could adversely affect our access to the public and private credit markets and increase the costs of borrowing under available credit lines, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Refer to the Ratings section under Part II, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for additional information relating to our credit ratings.. Changes in interest rates could materially and adversely affect our volume of mortgage loan originations or reduce the value of our MSR, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows.. Historically, rising interest rates have generally been associated with a lower volume of loan originations and lower pricing margins due to a disincentive for borrowers to refinance at a higher interest rate, while falling interest rates have generally been associated with higher loan originations and higher pricing margins, due to an incentive for borrowers to refinance at a lower interest rate. Accordingly, increases in interest rates could materially and adversely affect our mortgage loan origination volume, which could have a material and adverse effect on our overall business, consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, changes in interest rates may require us to post additional collateral under certain of our financing arrangements and derivative agreements, which could impact our liquidity.. Changes in interest rates are also a key driver of the performance of our Servicing segment as the values of our MSR are highly sensitive to changes in interest rates. Historically, the value of our MSR has increased when interest rates rise, as higher interest rates lead to decreased prepayment rates, and has decreased when interest rates decline, as lower interest rates lead to increased prepayment rates. As a result, substantial volatility in interest rates materially affects our mortgage servicing business, as well as our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. In addition, rising interest rates could (i) require us to post additional collateral under certain of our financing arrangements, which could adversely impact our liquidity, (ii) negatively impact our reverse loan business, (iii) negatively impact our mortgage loan origination volumes, and (iv) have other material and adverse effects on our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows, such as, for example, generally making it more expensive for us to fund our various businesses. In a declining interest rate environment, we have been, and could in the future be, required to post additional collateral under certain of our derivative arrangements, which could adversely impact our liquidity.. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect results of operations.. We currently use derivative financial instruments, primarily forward sales commitments, to manage exposure to interest rate risk and changes in the fair value of IRLCs and mortgage loans held for sale. We may also enter into commitments to purchase MBS as part of our overall hedging strategy. In the future, we may seek to manage our interest rate exposure by using interest rate swaps and options. The nature and timing of hedging transactions may influence the effectiveness of a given hedging strategy, and no hedging strategy is consistently effective. Poorly designed strategies, improperly executed and documented transactions or inaccurate assumptions could increase our risks and losses. In addition, hedging strategies involve transaction and other costs. Our hedging strategies and the derivatives that we use may not completely offset the risks of interest rate volatility and our hedging transactions may result in or magnify losses. Furthermore, interest rate derivatives may not be available at all, or at favorable terms, particularly during economic downturns. Any of the foregoing risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Additional risks related to hedging include:. • interest rate hedging can be expensive, particularly during periods of volatile interest rates;. • available interest rate hedges may not correspond directly with the interest rate risk for which protection is sought;. • the duration of the hedge may not match the duration of the related liability;. • the credit quality of the party owing money on the hedge may be downgraded to such an extent that it impairs our ability to sell or assign our side of the hedging transaction;. • the party owing money in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay; and. • a court could rule that such an agreement is not legally enforceable.. 39. Table of Contents. Technology failures or cyber-attacks against us or our vendors could damage our business operations and reputation, increase our costs, and result in significant third-party liability.. The financial services industry as a whole is characterized by rapidly changing technologies. System disruptions and failures caused by fire, power loss, telecommunications failures, unauthorized intrusion (e.g., cyber-attack), computer viruses and disabling devices, natural disasters and other similar events, may interrupt or delay our ability to provide services to our borrowers. Security breaches (which we have experienced and may in the future experience), acts of vandalism and developments in computer intrusion capabilities could result in a compromise or breach of the technology that we use to protect our borrowers' personal information and transaction data. Systems failures could result in reputational damage to our business and cause us to incur significant costs and third-party liability, and this could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. See the Cybersecurity section of Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for additional information relating to cybersecurity.. We transitioned a significant portion of our mortgage servicing business to MSP, a mortgage and consumer loan servicing platform, and problems relating to the transition to, and implementation of, MSP have interfered with, and could continue to interfere with, our business and operations.. On April 1, 2016, we transitioned the Fannie Mae loans that we service to MSP, a mortgage and consumer loan servicing platform. We have invested significant capital and human resources in connection with the transition to and implementation of MSP, and we expect that we will continue to invest significant capital and human resources in refining our use of MSP with the goal of maximizing efficiencies available to us following such transition. We have experienced decreases in productivity and increased costs as our employees implement and become familiar with the new system, and there can be no assurance that we will not continue to do so in the future. Any disruptions, delays or deficiencies in our implementation or refinement efforts, particularly any disruptions, delays or deficiencies that impact our operations, including loss of customer data, could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. Furthermore, the transition to and implementation of MSP was more costly than we initially anticipated and our current estimates for the remaining cost and time required to completely transition to and refine MSP may be wrong. The cost of maintaining other servicing platforms alongside MSP is significant, and our plans to become a more efficient mortgage servicer depend in part upon us achieving significant cost reductions and efficiencies in relation to our servicing platforms. If we are unable to achieve these goals, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely impacted.. We may be unable to protect our technology or keep up with the technology of our competitors.. We rely on proprietary and licensed software, and other technology, proprietary information and intellectual property to operate our business and to provide us with a competitive advantage. However, we may be unable to maintain and protect, or prevent others from misappropriating or otherwise violating, our rights in such software, technology, proprietary information and intellectual property. In addition, some competitors may have software and technologies that are as good as or better than our software and technology, which could put us at a disadvantage. Some of our systems are based on old technologies that are no longer in common use, and it may become increasingly difficult and expensive to maintain those systems. Our failure to maintain, protect and continue to develop our software, technology, proprietary information and intellectual property could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Any failure of our internal security measures or those of our vendors, or breach of our privacy protections, could cause harm to our reputation and subject us to liability.. In the ordinary course of our business, we receive and store certain confidential nonpublic information concerning borrowers including names, addresses, social security numbers and other confidential information. Additionally, we enter into third-party relationships to assist with various aspects of our business, some of which require the exchange of confidential borrower information. Breaches of security may occur through intentional or unintentional acts by those having authorized or unauthorized access to our systems or our clients' or counterparties' confidential information, including employees and customers, as well as hackers, and through electronic, physical or other means. If such a compromise or breach of our security measures or those of our vendors occurs, and confidential information is misappropriated, it could cause interruptions in our operations and/or expose us to significant liabilities, reporting obligations, remediation costs and damage to our reputation. Significant damage to our reputation or the reputation of our clients could negatively impact our ability to attract or retain clients. Any of the foregoing risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 40. Table of Contents. While we have obtained insurance to cover us against certain cybersecurity risks and information theft, there can be no guarantee that all losses will be covered or that the insurance limits will be sufficient to cover such losses.. We have obtained insurance coverage that protects us against losses from unauthorized penetration of company technology systems, employee theft of customer and/or company private information, and company liability for third-party vendors who mishandle company information. This insurance includes coverage for third-party losses as well as costs incidental to a breach of company systems such as notification, credit monitoring and identity theft resolution services. However, there can be no guarantee that every potential loss due to cyber-attack or theft of information has been insured against, nor that the limits of the insurance we have acquired will be sufficient to cover all such losses.. Our vendor relationships subject us to a variety of risks.. We have vendors that, among other things, provide us with financial, technology and other services to support our businesses. With respect to vendors engaged to perform activities required by servicing or originations criteria or regulatory requirements, we are required to take responsibility for assessing compliance with the applicable servicing or originations criteria or regulatory requirements for the applicable vendor and are required to have procedures in place to provide reasonable assurance that the vendor's activities comply in all material respects with servicing or originations criteria or regulatory requirements applicable to the vendor. We have taken steps to strengthen our vendor oversight program, but there can be no assurance that our program is sufficient. In the event that a vendor's activities do not comply with the servicing or originations criteria or regulatory requirements, it could materially negatively impact our business.. In addition, we rely on third-party vendors for certain services important or critical to our business, such as Black Knight Financial Services, LLC, with whom we have signed a long-term loan servicing agreement for the use of MSP. If our current vendors, particularly the vendors that provide important or critical services to us, were to stop providing such services to us on acceptable terms, or if there is any other material disruption in the provision of such services, we may be unable to procure such services from other vendors in a timely and efficient manner and on acceptable terms, or at all. Further, we may incur significant costs to resolve any such disruptions in service and this could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We have also recently increased the use of offshore vendors generally, especially with respect to certain of our technology functions. Our reliance on third-party vendors in other countries exposes us to disruptions in the political and economic environment in those countries and regions. Further, any changes to existing laws or the enactment of new legislation restricting offshore outsourcing by companies based in the U.S. may adversely affect our ability to outsource functions to third-party offshore service providers. Our ability to manage any such difficulties would be largely outside of our control, and our inability to utilize offshore service providers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and securities.. Negative public opinion could damage our reputation and adversely affect our earnings.. Reputational risk, or the risk to our business, earnings and capital from negative public opinion, is inherent in our business. Negative public opinion can result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending, loan servicing, debt collection practices, corporate governance, and our Chapter 11 Case, and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can also result from complaints filed with regulators, social media and traditional news media coverage, whether accurate or not. Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers, counterparties and employees and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action. Although we take steps to minimize reputation risk in dealing with our customers and communities, this risk will always be present in our organization.. By combining our servicing and originations businesses under the single \"Ditech\" brand, we may have increased the risk that adverse publicity in one area of the business could hurt the performance of other parts of the business. In particular, our ability to grow our originations business (which is a key part of our business strategy) could be limited by negative publicity arising from our servicing business, which now operates under the same Ditech brand. Our servicing business has generated a significant number of complaints filed with regulators such as the CFPB and also negative publicity in the press and social media. Further, the reverse mortgage business generally has generated adverse publicity, in part because reverse mortgage borrowers are relatively elderly and are perceived as vulnerable. Although the terms and requirements of the HECM product have been changed from time to time to address perceived origination abuses, we continue to service older HECM loans originated under different requirements. As the servicer of HECM loans, from time to time we are required to foreclose on and evict delinquent borrowers, who are likely to be elderly. This has attracted, and may continue to attract, adverse publicity.. 41. Table of Contents. The industry in which we operate is highly competitive, and, to the extent we fail to meet these competitive challenges or otherwise do not achieve our strategic initiatives, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows.. We operate in a highly competitive industry that could become even more competitive as a result of economic, legislative, regulatory or technological changes. We compete with a great number of competitors in the mortgage banking market for both the servicing and originations businesses as well as in our reverse mortgage and complementary businesses. Key competitors include financial institutions and non-bank servicers and originators. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources, and typically have access to greater financial resources and lower funding costs. All of these factors place us at a competitive disadvantage. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more favorable relationships than we can. Competition to service mortgage loans may result in lower margins. Because of the relatively limited number of servicing customers, our competitive position is impacted by our ability to differentiate ourselves from our competitors through our servicing platform and our failure to meet the performance standards or other expectations of any one of such customers could materially impact our business. We cannot assure you that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. From time to time, we embark upon various strategic initiatives for our business, including without limitation initiatives relating to acquisitions and dispositions of MSR and other assets, changes in the mix of our fee-for-service business including by entering into new subservicing arrangements, reducing our debt, improving our servicing performance, developing and growing certain portions of our business such as our mortgage originations capabilities, the use of capital partners, cost savings and operational efficiencies, and other matters. Our ability to achieve such initiatives is dependent upon numerous factors, many of which are not in our control. Our failure to achieve some or all of our strategic initiatives in a timely and efficient manner, or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations.. We may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of past, pending or potential future acquisitions or joint venture investments, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of past, pending or potential future acquisitions will depend, in part, on our ability to integrate these acquisitions into our business and is subject to certain risks, including:. • our ability to successfully combine the acquired businesses with ours;. • whether the combined businesses will perform as expected;. • the possibility that we inaccurately value assets or businesses we acquire, that we pay more than the value we will derive from the acquisitions, or that the value declines after the acquisition;. • the reduction of our cash available for operations and other uses;. • the disruption to our operations inherent in making numerous acquisitions over a relatively short period of time;. • the disruption to the ongoing operations at the acquired businesses;. • the incurrence of significant indebtedness to finance our acquisitions;. • the assumption of certain known and unknown liabilities of the acquired businesses;. • uncoordinated market functions;. • unanticipated issues and delays in integrating the acquired business or any information, communications or other systems;. • unanticipated incompatibility of purchasing, logistics, marketing and administration methods;. • unanticipated liabilities associated with the acquired business, assets or joint venture;. • additional costs or capital requirements beyond forecasted amounts;. • delays in the completion of acquisitions, including due to delays in or the failure to obtain approvals from governmental or regulatory entities;. • lack of expected synergies, failure to realize the anticipated benefits we expect to realize from the acquisition or joint venture, or failure of the assets or businesses we acquire to perform at levels meeting our expectations;. • not retaining key employees; and. • the diversion of management's attention from ongoing business concerns.. 42. Table of Contents. Our current business plan contemplates that we will accelerate our integration and centralization, many parts of which we acquired in transactions over several years. We believe that such integration will enable us to achieve considerable cost savings and increases in efficiency and operational oversight. However, there are costs associated with implementing integration changes and there are considerable risks involved in such integration efforts, including the risks of operational breakdowns and unwanted personnel losses during the period of transition. We may be unsuccessful in implementing our integration plan on time or at all, and the integration efforts could be more costly than expected and could yield lower savings and efficiency benefits than planned. If we are not able to successfully combine the acquired businesses and assets with ours within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected, the combined businesses and assets may not perform as expected, and the value of our common stock may be adversely affected.. Further, prices at which acquisitions can be made fluctuate with market conditions. We have experienced times during which acquisitions could not be made in specific markets at prices we considered acceptable, and we expect that we will experience this condition in the future. In addition, in order to finance an acquisition we may borrow funds, thereby increasing our leverage and diminishing our liquidity, or raise additional capital, which could dilute the interests of our existing shareholders. Also, it is possible that we will expend considerable resources in the pursuit of an acquisition that, ultimately, either does not close or is terminated. If we incur additional indebtedness to finance an acquisition, the acquired business may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to service that additional indebtedness.. We cannot assure you that future acquisitions or joint ventures will not adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, or that we will realize all of the anticipated benefits of any future acquisitions or joint ventures.. We use, and will continue to use, analytical models and data in connection with, among other things, developing our strategy, pricing new business and the valuation of certain investments we make, and any incorrect, misleading or incomplete information used in connection therewith may subject us to potential risks.. Due to the complexity of our business, we rely on, and will continue to rely on, various analytical models, information and data, some of which is supplied by third parties, in connection with, among other things, developing our strategy, pricing new business and the valuation of certain investments we make. Should our models or such data prove to be incorrect or misleading, any decision made in reliance thereon exposes us to potential risks. Some of the analytical models that we use or will be used by us are predictive in nature. The use of predictive models has inherent risks and may incorrectly forecast future behavior, leading to potential losses. We also use and will continue to use valuation models that rely on market data inputs. If incorrect market data is input into a valuation model, even a tested and well-respected valuation model, it may provide incorrect valuations and, as a result, could provide adverse actual results as compared to the predictive results.. We use estimates in determining the fair value of certain assets. If our estimates prove to be incorrect, we may be required to write down the value of these assets, which could adversely affect our earnings.. We estimate the fair value for certain assets (including MSR) and liabilities by calculating the present value of expected future cash flows utilizing assumptions that we believe are used by market participants. The methodology used to estimate these values is complex and uses asset-specific collateral data and market inputs for interest and discount rates and liquidity dates.. Valuations are highly dependent upon the reasonableness of our assumptions and the predictability of the relationships that drive the results of our valuation methodologies. If prepayment speeds increase more than estimated, delinquency and default levels are higher than anticipated or other events occur, we may be required to write down the value of certain assets, which could adversely affect our earnings.. Accounting rules for our business continue to evolve, are highly complex, and involve significant judgments and assumptions. Changes in accounting interpretations or assumptions could impact our financial statements.. Accounting rules for our business, such as the rules for determining the fair value measurement and disclosure of financial instruments, are highly complex and involve significant judgment and assumptions. These complexities could lead to a delay in the preparation of financial information and the delivery of this information to our stockholders. Changes in accounting interpretations or assumptions related to fair value could impact our financial statements and our ability to timely prepare our financial statements.. 43. Table of Contents. Impairment charges relating to our goodwill or other intangible assets could adversely affect our financial performance.. At December 31, 2017, we had $47.7 million of goodwill and $8.7 million of other intangible assets. We evaluate goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level as of October 1 of each year, or whenever events or circumstances indicate potential impairment. A significant decline in our reporting unit performance, increases in equity capital requirements, increases in the estimated cost of debt or equity, a significant adverse change in the business climate or a sustained decline in the price of our common stock may necessitate our taking charges in the future related to the impairment of our goodwill. We incurred impairment charges of $326.3 million during 2016. We are likely to continue to be impacted in the near term by certain company-specific matters, overall market performance within the sector, and a continued level of regulatory scrutiny. As a result, market capitalization, overall economic and sector conditions and other events or circumstances, including the ability to execute on our strategic objectives, amongst other factors, will continue to be regularly monitored by management. Unanticipated outcomes in these areas may result in an impairment of goodwill and/or intangible assets and have a related impact on income taxes in the future. If we determine that our goodwill or another intangible asset is impaired, we may be required to record additional significant charges to earnings that could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. We identified material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting for the year ended December 31, 2016, one of which has not been remediated as of December 31, 2017. Further, an additional material weakness in internal controls over financial reporting was identified for the year ended December 31, 2017. If we do not adequately address these material weaknesses, if we have other material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting in the future, or if we otherwise do not maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting, we could fail to accurately report our financial results, which may materially adversely affect our business and financial condition.. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to evaluate and report on our internal controls over financial reporting and have our independent auditors issue their own opinion on our internal controls over financial reporting. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. A material weakness is defined by the standards issued by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board as a deficiency or a combination of deficiencies in internal controls over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.. We concluded at December 31, 2016 that there were material weaknesses in internal controls over financial reporting related to operational processes associated with Ditech Financial default servicing activities and to the technical review of the valuation of deferred tax assets, which caused us to restate our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016. While we have completed the steps necessary to remediate the material weakness over deferred tax asset valuation, we have concluded that the steps taken to remediate the material weakness associated with Ditech Financial default servicing activities were not effective. Accordingly, this material weakness remains as of December 31, 2017. Further, a new material weakness was identified for the year ended December 31, 2017 related to the accuracy of the data utilized in the valuation calculation of fair value of MSR.. While we continue to take actions to improve the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and remediate the material weaknesses, if our remediation efforts are insufficient to address the material weaknesses, or if additional material weaknesses in our internal controls are discovered in the future, they may adversely affect our ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information timely and accurately and, as a result, our financial statements may contain material misstatements or omissions. Refer to Part II, Item 9A. Controls and Procedures for further information regarding these material weaknesses and our related remediation plans.. It is possible that additional material weaknesses and/or significant deficiencies could be identified by our management or by our independent auditing firm in the future, or may occur without being identified. The existence of any material weakness or significant deficiency could require management to devote significant time and incur significant expense to remediate such weakness or deficiency and management may not be able to remediate the same in a timely manner. Any such weakness or deficiency, even if remediated quickly, could result in regulatory scrutiny or lead to a default under our indebtedness. Furthermore, any material weakness requiring disclosure could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial condition, materially affect the market price and trading liquidity of our debt instruments, reduce the market value of our common stock and otherwise materially adversely affect our business and financial condition.. 44. Table of Contents. If we fail to maintain compliance with the continued listing standards of the NYSE, it may result in the delisting of our common stock from the NYSE and have other negative implications under our material agreements with lenders and counterparties.. Our common stock is currently listed for trading on the NYSE, and the continued listing of our common stock on the NYSE is subject to our compliance with a number of listing standards. On August 11, 2017, we received written notification from the NYSE that we were considered to be out of compliance with a NYSE continued listing standard because our average global market capitalization over a consecutive 30 trading-day period had fallen below $50.0 million at the same time our stockholders' equity was less than $50.0 million.. Pursuant to the Prepackaged Plan, as described herein, on February 9, 2018, our previously existing common stock was canceled and we issued common stock that began trading on the NYSE on February 12, 2018. On February 28, 2018, we received a notice from the NYSE that we remain out of compliance with the market capitalization and stockholders' equity continued listing requirement.. We are working with the NYSE to maintain the listing of our common stock.. If we are unable to cure any event of noncompliance with any continued listing standard of the NYSE within the applicable timeframe and other parameters set forth by the NYSE, or if we fail to maintain compliance with certain continued listing standards that do not provide for a cure period, it will result in the delisting of our common stock from the NYSE, which could negatively impact the trading price, trading volume and liquidity of, and have other material adverse effects on, our common stock. If our common stock is delisted from the NYSE, this could also have negative implications on our business relationships and under our material agreements with lenders and other counterparties.. Our business could suffer if we fail to attract, or retain, highly skilled senior managers and other employees and changes in our executive management team have been and may be disruptive to, or cause uncertainty in, our business.. Our future success will depend on our ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain highly qualified personnel for all areas of our organization, in particular skilled managers, loan servicers, debt default specialists, loan officers and underwriters. Trained and experienced personnel are in high demand and may be in short supply in some areas. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced employees have greater resources than we have and may be able to offer more attractive terms of employment. In addition, we invest significant time and expense in training our employees, which increases their value to competitors who may seek to recruit them. We may not be able to attract, develop and maintain an adequate skilled workforce necessary to operate our businesses and labor expenses may increase as a result of a shortage in the supply of qualified personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain such personnel, we may not be able to take advantage of acquisitions and other growth opportunities that may be presented to us and this could materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We have been reducing our workforce size and reducing the number of sites at which we operate, and as a result of these changes we have lost experienced personnel, including senior managers, have incurred transition costs and have had impaired efficiency in certain parts of our business during periods of change. We expect to continue to make further changes in our site footprint and to seek further personnel efficiencies, which could adversely affect our operations and results in future periods. As a result of the uncertainty these changes generate, it may be harder for us to retain or attract skilled employees in the future.. The experience of our senior managers is a valuable asset to us. While our senior management team has significant experience in the residential loan originations and servicing industry, we have recently experienced significant senior management turnover, including with our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. On February 20, 2018, Anthony N. Renzi stepped down from his position as Chief Executive Officer and President of the Company, and the Board appointed Jeffrey P. Baker to serve as Interim Chief Executive Officer and President of the Company, while continuing in his role as President of RMS. We continue to evaluate internal and external candidates to serve as permanent Chief Executive Officer and President, and have engaged an executive search firm to assist in that process. On February 1, 2018, Gerald A. Lombardo joined the Company and, effective February 9, 2018, succeeded Gary Tillett as Chief Financial Officer. Disruptions in management continuity could result in operational or administrative inefficiencies and added costs, which could adversely impact our results of operations and stock price, and may make recruiting for future management positions more difficult or costly. The loss of the services of our senior managers, or our recent, or any future, turnover at the senior management level, as well as risks associated with integrating a significant number of senior level employees into our operations and potential disruptions if one or more of the new employees are not successful, could adversely affect our business.. 45. Table of Contents. Our failure to deal appropriately with potential conflicts of interest relating to our relationship with WCO could damage our reputation, expose us to regulatory and other risks, and adversely affect our business.. Certain of our current and former officers, employees and/or Board members have served, or currently serve, as officers and/or Board members of WCO, which could create the perception of conflicts of interest between such persons' duties to us and their duties to WCO. In addition, potential conflicts of interest could develop regarding various other matters in connection with the recently completed sale of substantially all of WCO's assets and WCO's subsequent, ongoing liquidation. We attempt to manage such potential conflicts through our practices, our internal compliance policies and procedures, and the policies and agreements we negotiated with WCO, although no assurance can be given that conflicts have not, and will not in the future, nevertheless arise.. Appropriately dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult and our reputation could be damaged if we fail, or appear to fail, to deal appropriately with one or more potential or perceived conflicts of interest. It is possible that potential or perceived conflicts could give rise to disagreements with WCO or regulatory enforcement actions as a result of GTIM's prior obligations as the investment advisor to WCO, or result in a breach of the restrictive covenants contained in our debt agreements. Regulatory scrutiny of, or litigation in connection with, conflicts of interest or other matters relating to our relationship with WCO could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, hamper our ability to raise additional funds or to achieve certain of our strategic objectives, discourage counterparties to do business with us, and damage our investment in WCO, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations.. Additionally, WCO's qualification as a REIT through the time of its liquidation for tax purposes, which occurred in December 2016, involved the application of highly technical and complex Internal Revenue Code provisions for which only limited judicial and administrative authorities exist, and even a technical or inadvertent violation could have jeopardized WCO's REIT qualification in applicable tax years (thereby causing, among other consequences, WCO to be subject to corporate-level U.S. federal income taxes in such years) and could adversely affect our relationship with WCO and expose us to liability. Although we believe WCO qualified as a REIT through its liquidation for tax purposes, no assurance can be given in that regard.. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure. Certain provisions of Maryland law and our Articles of Amendment and Restatement could prevent a change of control or limit stockholders' influence on the management of our business.. Certain provisions of the MGCL may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or of impeding a change in our control under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of shares of our common stock with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then prevailing market price of such shares. We are subject to the \"business combination\" provisions of the MGCL that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between us and an \"interested stockholder\" (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of our then outstanding voting stock or an affiliate or associate of ours who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of 10% or more of our then outstanding stock) or an affiliate thereof for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder and, thereafter, imposes special appraisal rights and supermajority stockholder voting requirements on these combinations. These provisions of the MGCL do not apply to business combinations that are approved or exempted by the board of directors of a corporation prior to the time that the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. Pursuant to the statute, our Board of Directors has by resolution exempted business combinations between us and any other person, provided that the business combination is first approved by our Board of Directors. This resolution may be altered or repealed in whole or in part at any time. If this resolution is repealed, or our Board of Directors does not otherwise approve a business combination, this statute may discourage others from trying to acquire control of us and may increase the difficulty of consummating any offer.. The \"control share\" provisions of the MGCL provide that \"control shares\" of a Maryland corporation (defined as shares which, when aggregated with all other shares controlled by the stockholder, entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in the election of directors) acquired in a \"control share acquisition\" (defined as the acquisition of issued and outstanding \"control shares,\" subject to certain exceptions) have no voting rights except to the extent approved by our stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding votes entitled to be cast by the acquirer of control shares, our officers and our employees who are also our directors. Our bylaws contain a provision exempting from the control share acquisition statute any and all acquisitions by any person of our shares of stock. There can be no assurance that this provision will not be amended or eliminated at any time in the future.. 46. Table of Contents. The \"unsolicited takeover\" provisions of the MGCL permit our Board of Directors, without stockholder approval and regardless of what is currently provided in our charter or bylaws, to implement certain provisions if we have a class of equity securities registered under the Exchange Act and at least three independent directors. These provisions may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making an acquisition proposal for us or of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in our control under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of shares of our common stock with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then current market price.. Our Articles of Amendment and Restatement provide that our Board of Directors is classified. The Preferred Stock Directors, serving in Class I and Class II, were designated by our Senior Noteholders and the Common Stock Directors, serving in Class III, were designated by us. The initial terms of the Class I directors will expire at our annual meeting in 2018, the Class II directors in 2019 and the Class III directors in 2020, with directors being elected thereafter to serve three-year terms. During the period commencing on the Effective Date and terminating on February 9, 2020, for so long as any preferred stock is outstanding, only the holders of preferred stock, voting separately as a class, will be entitled to elect Preferred Stock Directors, and Preferred Stock Directors will be nominated by, and Preferred Stock Director vacancies will be filled by, the Preferred Stock Directors then in office. During such period, only the holders of our successor common stock, voting separately as a class, will be entitled to elect the Common Stock Directors, and Common Stock Directors will be nominated by, and Common Stock Director vacancies will be filled by, the Common Stock Directors then in office.. From the Effective Date to and including August 9, 2019, we may not, without the approval of at least seven (7) of the nine (9) members of the Board of Directors then in office, (i) sell all or substantially all of our assets, (ii) enter into any transaction pursuant to which a change in control (as defined in the Articles of Amendment and Restatement) would occur, (iii) increase or decrease the size of the Board of Directors, or (iv) amend, alter or repeal certain provisions of our Articles of Amendment and Restatement.. Our authorized but unissued shares of common and preferred stock may prevent a change in our control.. Our charter authorizes us to issue additional authorized but unissued shares of common or preferred stock. In addition, our Board of Directors may, without stockholder approval, classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common or preferred stock into other classes or series of stock and set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. As a result, our Board of Directors may establish a class or series of shares of common or preferred stock that could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our shares of common stock.. Our common stock price may experience substantial volatility, which may affect your ability to sell our common stock at an advantageous price.. The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. Any such volatility may affect the ability to sell our common stock at an advantageous price. Market price fluctuations in our common stock may be due to a variety of factors, including our emergence from bankruptcy on February 9, 2018 and the transactions executed by us in connection therewith, our available liquidity, public announcements we may make from time to time, and a variety of additional factors including, without limitation, those set forth under these \"Risk Factors.\". Our preferred stock and warrants may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. The market price of our common stock may be influenced by our preferred stock and warrants. The market price of our common stock could become more volatile and could be depressed by investors' anticipation of the potential resale in the market of a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock received upon conversion of the preferred stock or exercise of warrants; possible sales of our common stock by investors who view our preferred stock or warrants as a more attractive means of equity participation than owning our shares of common stock; and hedging or arbitrage trading activity that may develop involving our preferred stock, warrants and common stock.. Future sales of our common stock in the public market or the issuance of securities senior to our common stock, or the perception that these sales may occur, could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and our ability to raise funds in stock offerings.. A significant number of our shares of common stock may be held by a relatively small number of investors. Further, we entered into a Registration Rights Agreement with certain investors in our common stock, warrants and preferred stock pursuant to which we have agreed to file a registration statement with the SEC to facilitate potential future sales of securities. Sales by us or our stockholders of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public markets, or even the perception that these sales might occur (such as upon the filing of the aforementioned registration statement), could cause the market price of our common stock to decline or could impair our ability to raise capital through a future sale of, or pay for acquisitions using, our equity securities.. 47. Table of Contents. We are currently authorized to issue 100,000,000 shares of stock, consisting of 90,000,000 shares of common stock and 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock, including 100,000 shares of preferred stock, having the preferences, conversion rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends or other distributions, qualifications and terms and conditions of redemption set forth in the Articles Supplementary. As of March 23, 2018, we had outstanding 4,252,500 shares of common stock and warrants to purchase an aggregate of 12,993,750 shares of our common stock. In addition, as of March 23, 2018, we have 11,497,500 shares of common stock reserved for issuance upon conversion of the preferred stock.. We have also reserved an additional 3,193,750 shares for future issuance to our directors, officers and employees pursuant to our equity incentive plan. The potential issuance of such additional shares of common stock may create downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock.. We may issue common stock or other equity securities, including additional preferred stock, senior to our common stock (in terms of dividends, liquidation rights or voting rights) in the future for a number of reasons, including to finance acquisitions and to satisfy our obligations upon the exercise of warrants or conversion of preferred stock, or for other reasons. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales or issuances of shares of our common stock or other equity securities, or the availability of shares of common stock or such other equity securities for future sale or issuance, will have on the trading price of our common stock.. SEC rules for determining beneficial ownership under the Exchange Act, as applied to our capital structure, may increase the likelihood of relatively small holders (on an economic interest basis) of our securities becoming subject to Section 13 and Section 16 of the Exchange Act, which may negatively impact the market for such securities.. Beneficial owners of more than 10% of our outstanding common stock are subject to reporting requirements in respect of their initial ownership of and subsequent transactions in our common stock, pursuant to Section 13 and Section 16 of the Exchange Act. Under our capital structure, the number of shares of common stock issuable upon conversion or exercise of preferred stock or warrants is substantially larger than the number of currently outstanding shares of common stock. SEC rules for calculating beneficial ownership provide that a holder of our preferred stock or warrants would include the common stock issuable to such holder upon the conversion or exercise of such securities in both the ownership (numerator) and total shares outstanding (denominator). For purposes of determining the beneficial ownership under the Exchange Act of any holder of our common stock, preferred stock or warrants, the number of shares outstanding (denominator) does not include the amount of common stock that would be outstanding if all outstanding shares of preferred stock or warrants were converted or exercised, the impact of which would be significantly dilutive. Accordingly, holders of our common stock, preferred stock and warrants may be deemed to have beneficial ownership that significantly exceeds their underlying economic interest, causing them to possibly become subject to Section 16 and/or Section 13 of the Exchange Act.. The composition of our Board of Directors has changed significantly upon emergence from Chapter 11.. The Prepackaged Plan caused the composition of our Board of Directors to change significantly. The new directors have different backgrounds, experiences and perspectives from those individuals who previously served on the Board of Directors and, thus, may have different views on the issues that will determine our future. As a result, our future strategy and plans may differ materially from those of the past.. The Prepackaged Plan was based in part upon assumptions, projections and analyses developed by us. If these assumptions, projections and analyses prove to be incorrect in any material respect, the expected business and financial performance contemplated by the Prepackaged Plan may not be successfully implemented.. The Prepackaged Plan was based in part on assumptions and analyses based on our experience and perception of historical trends, current conditions at the time and expected future developments, as well as other factors that we considered appropriate under the circumstances. Whether actual future results and developments will be consistent with our expectations and assumptions depends on a number of factors, including but not limited to: (i) our ability to maintain customers' confidence in our viability as a continuing entity and to attract and retain sufficient business from them; (ii) our ability to retain key employees; and (iii) the overall strength and stability of general economic conditions and the mortgage servicing and originations industry. The failure of any of these factors could materially adversely affect the success of our businesses.. 48. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Our Relationship with Walter Energy. We may become liable for U.S. federal income taxes allegedly owed by the Walter Energy consolidated group for 2009 and prior tax years. We cannot predict how Walter Energy's recent bankruptcy filing in Alabama may affect the outcome of these matters.. We may become liable for U.S. federal income taxes allegedly owed by the Walter Energy consolidated group for 2009 and prior tax years. Under federal law, each member of a consolidated group for U.S. federal income tax purposes is severally liable for the federal income tax liability of each other member of the consolidated group for any year in which it was a member of the consolidated group at any time during such year. Certain of our former subsidiaries (which were subsequently merged or otherwise consolidated with certain of our current subsidiaries) were members of the Walter Energy consolidated tax group prior to our spin-off from Walter Energy on April 17, 2009. As a result, to the extent the Walter Energy consolidated group's federal income taxes (including penalties and interest) for such tax years are not favorably resolved on the merits or otherwise paid, we could be liable for such amounts.. Walter Energy Tax Matters. According to Walter Energy's Form 10-Q, or the Walter Energy Form 10-Q, for the quarter ended September 30, 2015 (filed with the SEC on November 5, 2015) and certain other public filings made by Walter Energy in its bankruptcy proceedings currently pending in Alabama, described below, as of the date of such filing, certain tax matters with respect to certain tax years prior to and including the year of our spin-off from Walter Energy remained unresolved, including certain tax matters relating to: (i) a \"proof of claim\" for a substantial amount of taxes, interest and penalties with respect to Walter Energy's fiscal years ended August 31, 1983 through May 31, 1994, which was filed by the IRS in connection with Walter Energy's bankruptcy filing on December 27, 1989 in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Middle District of Florida, Tampa Division; (ii) an IRS audit of Walter Energy's federal income tax returns for the years ended May 31, 2000 through December 31, 2008; and (iii) an IRS audit of Walter Energy's federal income tax returns for the 2009 through 2013 tax years.. Walter Energy 2015 Bankruptcy Filing. On July 15, 2015, Walter Energy filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Northern District of Alabama. On August 18, 2015, Walter Energy filed a motion with the Florida bankruptcy court requesting that the court transfer venue of its disputes with the IRS to the Alabama bankruptcy court. In that motion, Walter Energy asserted that it believed the liability for the years at issue \"will be materially, if not completely, offset by the [r]efunds\" asserted by Walter Energy against the IRS. The Florida Bankruptcy Court transferred venue of the matter to the Alabama Bankruptcy Court, where it remains pending.. On November 5, 2015, Walter Energy, together with certain of its subsidiaries, entered into the Walter Energy Asset Purchase Agreement with Coal Acquisition, a Delaware limited liability company formed by members of Walter Energy's senior lender group, pursuant to which, among other things, Coal Acquisition agreed to acquire substantially all of Walter Energy's assets and assume certain liabilities, subject to, among other things, a number of closing conditions set forth therein. On January 8, 2016, after conducting a hearing, the Alabama Bankruptcy Court entered an order approving the sale of Walter Energy's assets to Coal Acquisition free and clear of all liens, claims, interests and encumbrances of the debtors. The sale of such assets pursuant to the Walter Energy Asset Purchase Agreement was completed on March 31, 2016 and was conducted under the provisions of Sections 105, 363 and 365 of the Bankruptcy Code. Based on developments in the Alabama bankruptcy proceedings following completion of this asset sale, such asset sale appears to have resulted in (i) limited value remaining in Walter Energy's bankruptcy estate and (ii) to date, limited recovery for certain of Walter Energy's unsecured creditors, including the IRS.. On January 9, 2017, Walter Energy filed with the Alabama Bankruptcy Court a motion to convert its Chapter 11 bankruptcy case to a Chapter 7 liquidation. In that motion, Walter Energy stated that, other than with respect to 1% of the equity of the acquirer of Walter Energy's core assets, no prospect of payment of unsecured claims exists. On January 23, 2017, the IRS filed an objection to Walter Energy's motion to convert, in which the IRS requested that a judgment be entered against Walter Energy in connection with the tax matters described above. The IRS further asserted that entry of a final judgment was necessary so that it could pursue collection of tax liabilities from former members of Walter Energy's consolidated group that are not debtors.. On January 30, 2017, the Alabama Bankruptcy Court held a hearing at which it denied the IRS's request for entry of a judgment and announced its intent to grant Walter Energy's motion to convert. The Alabama Bankruptcy Court entered an order on February 2, 2017 converting Walter Energy's Chapter 11 bankruptcy to a Chapter 7 liquidation. During February 2017, Andre Toffel was appointed Chapter 7 trustee of Walter Energy's bankruptcy estate.. 49. Table of Contents. We cannot predict whether or to what extent we may become liable for federal income taxes of the Walter Energy consolidated tax group during the tax years in which we were a part of such group, in part because we believe, based on publicly available information, that: (i) the amount of taxes owed by the Walter Energy consolidated tax group for the periods from 1983 through 2009 remains unresolved; and (ii) in light of Walter Energy's conversion from a Chapter 11 bankruptcy to a Chapter 7 bankruptcy, it is unclear whether the IRS will seek to make a direct claim against us for such taxes. Further, because we cannot currently estimate our liability, if any, relating to the federal income tax liability of Walter Energy's consolidated tax group during the tax years in which we were a part of such group, we cannot determine whether such liabilities, if any, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and/or results of operations.. Tax Separation Agreement. In connection with our spin-off from Walter Energy, we and Walter Energy entered into a Tax Separation Agreement, dated April 17, 2009. Notwithstanding any several liability we may have under federal tax law described above, under the Tax Separation Agreement, Walter Energy agreed to retain full liability for all U.S. federal income or state combined income taxes of the Walter Energy consolidated group for 2009 and prior tax years (including any interest, additional taxes or penalties applicable thereto), subject to limited exceptions. We therefore filed proofs of claim in the Alabama bankruptcy proceedings asserting claims for any such amounts to the extent we are ultimately held liable for the same. However, we expect to receive little or no recovery from Walter Energy for any filed proofs of claim for indemnification.. It is unclear whether claims made by us under the Tax Separation Agreement would be enforceable against Walter Energy in connection with, or following the conclusion of, the various Walter Energy bankruptcy proceedings described above, or if such claims would be rejected or disallowed under bankruptcy law. It is also unclear whether we would be able to recover some or all of any such claims given Walter Energy's limited assets and limited recoveries for unsecured creditors in the Walter Energy bankruptcy proceedings described above.. Furthermore, the Tax Separation Agreement provides that Walter Energy has, in its sole discretion, the exclusive right to represent the interests of the consolidated group in any audit, court proceeding or settlement of a claim with the IRS for the tax years in which certain of our former subsidiaries were members of the Walter Energy consolidated tax group. However, in light of the conversion of Walter Energy's bankruptcy proceeding from a Chapter 11 proceeding to a Chapter 7 proceeding, we may choose to take a direct role in proceedings involving the IRS's claim for tax years in which we were a member of the Walter Energy consolidated tax group. Moreover, the Tax Separation Agreement obligates us to take certain tax positions that are consistent with those taken historically by Walter Energy. In the event we do not take such positions, we could be liable to Walter Energy to the extent our failure to do so results in an increased tax liability or the reduction of any tax asset of Walter Energy. These arrangements may result in conflicts of interests between us and Walter Energy, particularly with regard to the Walter Energy bankruptcy proceedings described above.. Lastly, according to its public filings, Walter Energy's 2009 tax year is currently under audit. Accordingly, if it is determined that certain distribution taxes and other amounts are owed related to our spin-off from Walter Energy in 2009, we may be liable under the Tax Separation Agreement for all or a portion of such amounts."
