[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Dominion Energy Midstream's business is influenced by many factors that are difficult to predict, involve uncertainties that may materially affect actual results and are often beyond its control. A number of these factors have been identified below. For other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in any forward-looking statement or projection contained in this report, see Forward-Looking Statements in Item 7. MD&A.. RISKS INHERENT IN OUR ABILITY TO GENERATE STABLE AND GROWING CASH FLOWS. Our cash generating assets are the Preferred Equity Interest, our pipeline operations, and our equity method investments in Iroquois and White River Hub, the cash receipts from which may not be sufficient following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of costs and expenses, including cost reimbursements to our general partner and its affiliates, to enable us to pay the minimum quarterly distribution to our unitholders. Our sources of cash are funds we receive from (i) Cove Point on the Preferred Equity Interest, which we expect will result in an annual payment to us of $50.0 million, (ii) our pipelines' operations and (iii) distributions received with respect to our interests in Iroquois and White River Hub, which we expect will generate sufficient cash to enable us to pay the minimum quarterly distributions on the common and subordinated units. These sources may not generate sufficient cash from operations following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of costs and expenses, including cost reimbursements to our general partner and its affiliates, to enable us to pay the minimum quarterly distribution to our unitholders. The amount of cash we can distribute on our common and subordinated units is almost. entirely dependent upon Cove Point's ability to generate Net Operating Income, our pipelines' ability to generate cash from operations and Iroquois and White River Hub's ability to make distributions to their partners. Due to our relative lack of asset diversification, an adverse development at Cove Point, our pipelines, Iroquois or White River Hub would have a significantly greater impact on our financial condition and results of operations than if we maintained a more diverse portfolio of assets. Cove Point's ability to make payments on the Preferred Equity Interest, our pipelines' cash generated from operations and Iroquois and White River Hub's ability to make distributions to their partners will depend on several factors beyond our control, some of which are described below.. The Preferred Equity Interest is non-cumulative. Cove Point will make Preferred Return Distributions on a quarterly basis provided it has sufficient cash and undistributed Net Operating Income (determined on a cumulative basis from the closing of the Offering) from which to make Preferred Return Distributions. Preferred Return Distributions are non-cumulative. In the event Cove Point is unable to fully satisfy Preferred Return Distributions during any quarter, we will not have a right to recover any missed or deficient payments.. An inability to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, or at all, could have an adverse effect on our operations and ability to generate cash flow. We are dependent on our credit facility with Dominion Energy for any borrowings necessary to meet our working capital and other financial needs. In certain circumstances, we are able to extend the credit facility at our option. However, there can be no assurance that conditions for such extension will be met. A new credit facility with Dominion Energy or a third party may bear a higher interest rate than the current credit facility, which could adversely affect our cash flow.. If Dominion Energy's funding resources were to become unavailable to Dominion Energy, our access to funding would also be in jeopardy. In the future, an inability to obtain additional financing from other sources on acceptable terms could negatively affect our financial condition, cash flows, anticipated financial results or impair our ability to generate additional cash flows. Our ability to obtain bank financing or to access the capital markets for future debt or equity offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing or offering, the covenants contained in any other credit facility or other debt agreements in place at the time, adverse market conditions or other contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Our failure to obtain the funds necessary to maintain, develop and increase our asset base could adversely impact our growth and profitability.. If we do not make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms or fail to adequately integrate acquired assets, our future growth and our ability to increase distributions to our unitholders will be limited. Our ability to grow depends on our ability to make accretive acquisitions either from Dominion Energy or third parties, and we may be unable to do so for any of the following reasons, without limitation:. <U+0095>   We are unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate acceptable purchase contracts with them;. <U+0095>   We are unable to obtain or maintain necessary governmental approvals;. 16. Table of Contents. <U+0095>   We are unable to obtain financing for the acquisitions or future organic growth opportunities on acceptable terms, or at all;. <U+0095>   We are unable to secure adequate customer commitments to use the future facilities;. <U+0095>   We are outbid by competitors; or. <U+0095>   Dominion Energy may not offer us the opportunity to acquire assets or equity interests from it.. Additionally, a failure to adequately integrate acquired assets into our processes and systems could impact operations and result in compliance risks.. We may not be able to obtain financing or successfully negotiate future acquisition opportunities offered by Dominion Energy. If Dominion Energy offers us the opportunity to purchase additional equity interests in Cove Point or interests in Blue Racer or Atlantic Coast Pipeline, or other assets or equity interests, we may not be able to successfully negotiate a purchase and sale agreement and related agreements, we may not be able to obtain any required financing on acceptable terms or at all for such purchase and we may not be able to obtain any required governmental and third party consents. The decision whether or not to accept such offer, and to negotiate the terms of such offer, will be made by our general partner consistent with its duties under our partnership agreement. Our general partner may decline the opportunity to accept such offer for a variety of reasons, including a determination that the acquisition of the assets at the proposed purchase price would result in a risk that the conversion of subordinated units would not occur.. The acquisitions we may make could adversely affect our business and cash flows. The acquisitions we may make involve potential risks, including:. <U+0095>   An inability to integrate successfully the businesses that we acquire with our existing operations;. <U+0095>   A decrease in our liquidity by using a significant portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity to finance the acquisition;. <U+0095>   A substantial increase in our indebtedness and working capital requirements;. <U+0095>   The assumption of unknown liabilities;. <U+0095>   Limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller;. <U+0095>   Mistaken assumptions about the cash generated, or to be generated, by the business acquired or the overall costs of equity or debt;. <U+0095>   Incorrect assumptions about capital investments and required operating and maintenance expenditures;. <U+0095>   The diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; and. <U+0095>   Unforeseen difficulties encountered in operating new business segments or in new geographic areas.. In connection with acquisitions, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly, and our unitholders will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in determining the application of our future funds and other resources.. Our level of indebtedness may increase and reduce our financial flexibility and ability to pay distributions. At December 31, 2017, we had the following outstanding indebtedness: $26.4 million under our $300.0 million credit facility with Dominion Energy, $300.0 million under a term loan agreement. and $435.0 million of senior and medium-term notes acquired in connection with the Dominion Energy Questar Pipeline Acquisition. We may borrow under our $300.0 million credit facility with Dominion Energy to pursue acquisitions and future organic growth opportunities, or to otherwise meet our financial needs. Although the credit facility does not contain any financial tests and covenants that we must satisfy as a condition to making distributions, we are required to pay any amounts then due and payable under such agreement prior to making any distributions to our unitholders, notwithstanding our stated cash distribution policy. Also, while such credit facility only contains limited representations, warranties and ongoing covenants consistent with other credit facilities made available by Dominion Energy to certain of its other affiliates, we are required to obtain Dominion Energy's consent prior to creating any mortgage, security interest, lien or other encumbrance outside the ordinary course of business on any of our property, assets or revenues during the term of such agreement. Failure to obtain any such consent from Dominion Energy in the future could have an adverse impact on our ability to implement our business strategies, generate revenues and pay distributions to our unitholders.. In connection with the Dominion Energy Questar Pipeline Acquisition, we borrowed $300.0 million under a term loan agreement that matures in December 2019. Interest on the borrowed amount accrues at a variable rate determined based on our ratio of total debt to cash flow, and interest payments are due on a quarterly basis. Upon maturity of the term loan agreement, any amounts then due and payable will need to be paid before we are permitted to make distributions to our unitholders. The term loan agreement contains customary representations, warranties and covenants consistent with other debt arrangements made available to similarly situated borrowers. See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.. In the future, we may incur additional significant indebtedness pursuant to other term loans, credit facilities or similar arrangements in order to make future acquisitions or to develop our assets. As amounts under any indebtedness we incur become due and payable, we expect that the instruments pursuant to which such indebtedness is incurred will require that we repay such amounts prior to making any distributions to our unitholders. We also expect that such instruments may contain financial tests and covenants that are not present in our credit facility with Dominion Energy that we would need to satisfy as a condition to making distributions. Should we be unable to satisfy any such restrictions, we will be prohibited from making cash distributions to our unitholders notwithstanding our stated cash distribution policy.. Our level of indebtedness could affect our ability to generate stable and growing cash flows in several ways, including the following:. <U+0095>   A significant portion of our cash flows could be used to service our indebtedness;. <U+0095>   The covenants contained in the agreements governing our future indebtedness may limit our ability to borrow additional funds, dispose of assets, pay distributions and make certain investments;. <U+0095>   Our debt covenants may also affect our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in the economy and in our industry;. 17. Table of Contents. <U+0095>   A high level of debt would increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. <U+0095>   A high level of debt may place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged and therefore may be able to take advantage of opportunities that our indebtedness would prevent us from pursuing; and. <U+0095>   A high level of debt may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, debt-service requirements, acquisitions, general partnership or other purposes.. In addition, borrowings under our credit facility with Dominion Energy and the term loan agreement bear interest at variable rates. Additionally, credit facilities we or our subsidiaries may enter into in the future may bear interest at variable rates. If the interest rates on future credit facilities are tied to market interest rates and market interest rates increase, such variable-rate debt will create higher debt-service requirements, which could adversely affect our cash flow.. In addition to our debt-service obligations, our future operations may require substantial investments on a continuing basis. Our ability to make scheduled debt payments, to refinance our obligations with respect to our indebtedness and to fund capital and non-capital expenditures necessary to maintain the condition of our operating assets, properties and systems software, as well as to provide capacity for the growth of our business, depends on our financial and operating performance. General economic conditions and financial, business and other factors affect our operations and our future performance. Many of these factors are beyond our control. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to pay the interest on our debt, and future working capital, borrowings or equity financing may not be available to pay or refinance such debt.. Cost and expense reimbursements owed to our general partner and its affiliates will reduce the amount of distributable cash flow to our unitholders. Our general partner will not receive a management fee or other compensation for its management of our partnership, but we are obligated to reimburse our general partner and its affiliates for all expenses incurred and payments made on our behalf. These expenses include salary, bonus, incentive compensation and other amounts paid to persons who perform various general, administrative and support services for us or on our behalf, and corporate overhead costs and expenses allocated to us by Dominion Energy. Our partnership agreement provides that our general partner will determine the costs and expenses that are allocable to us and does not set a limit on the amount of expenses for which our general partner and its affiliates may be reimbursed. The payment of fees to our general partner and its affiliates and the reimbursement of expenses could adversely affect our ability to pay cash distributions to our unitholders.. RISKS INHERENT IN OUR INVESTMENT IN COVE POINT. Cove Point. '. s revenue is generated by contracts with a limited number of customers, and Cove Point. '. s ability to generate cash required to make payments on the Preferred Equity Interest is. substantially dependent upon the performance of these customers under their contracts.. approximately 30 customers, including the Storage Customers, marketers or end users and the Import Shippers. The three largest customers comprised approximately 69%, 90% and 90% of the total transportation and storage revenues for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Cove Point's largest customer represented approximately 31%, 70% and 70% of such amounts in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Because Cove Point has a small number of customers, its contracts subject it to counterparty risk. The ability of each of Cove Point's customers to perform its obligations to Cove Point will depend on a number of factors that are beyond our control. Cove Point's future results and liquidity are substantially dependent upon the performance of these customers under their contracts, and on such customers' continued willingness and ability to perform their contractual obligations. Cove Point is also exposed to the credit risk of any guarantor of these customers' obligations under their respective agreements in the event that Cove Point must seek recourse under a guaranty. Any such credit support may not be sufficient to satisfy the obligations in the event of a counterparty default. In addition, if a controversy arises under an agreement resulting in a judgment in Cove Point's favor where the counterparty has limited assets in the U.S. to satisfy such judgment, Cove Point may need to seek to enforce a final U.S. court judgment in a foreign tribunal, which could involve a lengthy process. Upon the expiration of Cove Point's import contracts, we expect these contracts will not be renewed.. Cove Point's contracts may become subject to termination or force majeure provisions under certain circumstances that, if triggered for any reason, could have an adverse effect on Cove Point and its ability to make payments on the Preferred Equity Interest. In the event any of Cove Point's customers become entitled to terminate their further contractual obligations to Cove Point and exercise such right, such termination could have a material adverse effect on Cove Point's business, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects, which could have an adverse impact on Cove Point's ability to pay the Preferred Return Distributions.. Cove Point is not currently receiving any revenues under its export contracts, and the export contracts may be terminated by Export Customers if certain conditions precedent are not met or for other reasons. Cove Point's agreements with the Export Customers, while executed, will not begin generating revenues for Cove Point prior to commercial operation of the Liquefaction Project. In addition, the Export Customers may become entitled to terminate, or be relieved from, their contractual obligations to Cove Point under certain circumstances, including: (i) failure of certain conditions precedent to be met or waived by specified dates; (ii) the occurrence and continuance of certain events of force majeure (including the loss of Non-FTA Authorization); (iii) delays in the commencement of commercial operation of the Liquefaction Project beyond specified time periods; and (iv) failure by Cove Point to satisfy its contractual obligations after any applicable cure periods. If such agreements were terminated, there can be no assurance that Cove Point will be able to replace such agreements on comparable terms. Our ability to effect such a replacement is dependent upon, among other things, the global market for LNG. The termination of, and failure to replace, the export contracts could have an adverse impact on. 18. Table of Contents. Cove Point's ability to pay the Preferred Return Distributions if Cove Point was unable to generate sufficient annual cash flows from other sources.. Cove Point. '. s existing revenue streams are insufficient to pay the full amount of Preferred Return Distributions.. Cove Point may be unable to commence commercial operation of the Liquefaction Project for a variety of reasons, some of which are outside of its control, and some of which are described below. In the event Cove Point is unable to commence commercial operation of the Liquefaction Project or if the export contracts are terminated and not replaced and, in either case, Cove Point does not have sufficient cash and Net Operating Income from other sources, Cove Point will not be able to pay the Preferred Return Distributions and distributions with respect to any future preferred equity interests acquired by us. The inability of Cove Point to make Preferred Return Distributions could have a significant impact on our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. Similarly, the inability of Cove Point to generate revenues sufficient to support the payment of distributions on additional preferred equity interests that may otherwise be made available to us could adversely impact our overall business plan and ability to generate stable and growing cash flows.. Various factors could negatively affect the timing or overall development or commercial operation of the Liquefaction Project, which could adversely affect Cove Point. '. s ability to make payments on the Preferred Equity Interest.. <U+0095>   The ability to maintain necessary permits, licenses and approvals from agencies and third parties that are required to operate the Liquefaction Project;. <U+0095>   Dominion Energy's ability and willingness to provide funding for the development or maintenance of the Liquefaction Project and, if necessary, Cove Point's ability to obtain additional funding for the development or maintenance of the Liquefaction Project; and. <U+0095>   Unexpected maintenance required during commissioning or initial commercial operation stages.. Any delay in completion of the Liquefaction Project may prevent Cove Point from commencing liquefaction operations. when or at levels anticipated, which could cause a delay in the receipt of revenues therefrom, require Cove Point to pay damages to its customers, or in event of significant delays beyond certain time periods, permit either or both of Cove Point's Export Customers to terminate their contractual obligations to Cove Point. As a result, any significant delay or inability to perform, whatever the cause, could have a material adverse effect on Cove Point's operating results and its ability to make payments on the Preferred Equity Interest. In addition, the successful completion of the Liquefaction Project is subject to the risk of cost overruns, which may make it difficult to finance the completion of the Liquefaction Project.. Cove Point is dependent on Dominion Energy to fund the costs necessary to develop infrastructure projects, including the Liquefaction Project. If Dominion Energy is unwilling or unable to supply the funding necessary to develop infrastructure projects, Cove Point may be required to seek additional financing in the future and may not be able to secure such financing on acceptable terms. The Liquefaction Project, which is estimated to cost approximately $4.1 billion, excluding financing costs, is expected to be placed into service in March 2018. Additionally, in January 2018, Cove Point received FERC authorization to construct and operate the approximately $150 million Eastern Market Access Project. Construction on this project is expected to begin in the second quarter of 2018, and the project facilities are expected to be placed into service in early 2019.. To date, Dominion Energy has funded development and construction costs associated with these expansion projects. Dominion Energy has indicated that it intends to provide the funding necessary for the remaining development costs and other capital expenditures of Cove Point, but it has no contractual obligation to do so and has not secured all of the funding necessary to cover these costs, as it intends to finance these costs as they are incurred using its consolidated operating cash flows in addition to proceeds from capital markets transactions. Cove Point's existing revenue streams and cash reserves will be insufficient for it to complete these infrastructure projects. If Dominion Energy is unwilling to provide funding for the remaining development costs and other capital expenditures, or is unable to obtain such funding in the amounts required or on terms acceptable to Dominion Energy, Cove Point would have to obtain additional funding from lenders, in the capital markets or through other third parties. Any such additional funding may not be available in the amounts required or on terms acceptable to Cove Point and Dominion Energy Midstream. The failure to obtain any necessary additional funding could cause these expansion projects to be delayed or not be completed.. If Cove Point does obtain bank financing or access the capital markets, incurring additional debt may significantly increase interest expense and financial leverage, which could compromise Cove Point's ability to fund future development and acquisition activities and restrict Cove Point's ability to make payments on the Preferred Equity Interest, which would in turn limit our ability to make distributions to our unitholders.. Dominion Energy has also entered into guarantee arrangements on behalf of Cove Point to facilitate the Liquefaction Project, including guarantees supporting the terminal services and transportation agreements as well as the engineering, procurement and construction contract for the Liquefaction Project. Two of. 19. Table of Contents. the guarantees have no stated limit, one guarantee has a $150 million limit, and one guarantee has a $1.75 billion aggregate limit with an annual draw limit of $175 million. If Cove Point was required to replace these guarantees with other credit support, the cost could be significant.. Some of the approvals for the Liquefaction Project may be subject to further conditions, review and/or revocation. Cove Point has received the required approvals to construct and operate the Liquefaction Project from the DOE, FERC and the Maryland Commission. These approvals are subject to continued compliance with the applicable permit conditions. However, all DOE export licenses are subject to review and possible withdrawal should the DOE conclude that such export authorization is no longer in the public interest. The issuance of the FERC Order approving the Liquefaction Project was upheld by the D.C. Circuit. Cove Point does not know whether any existing or potential interventions or other actions by third parties will interfere with Cove Point's ability to maintain such approvals, but loss of any material approval could have a material adverse effect on the development or operation of the facility. In addition, the Liquefaction Project has been the subject of litigation in the past and could be the subject of litigation in the future. Failure to comply with regulatory approval conditions or an adverse ruling in any future litigation could adversely affect Cove Point's operations, financial condition, and ability to make payments on the Preferred Equity Interest.. To maintain the cryogenic readiness of the Cove Point LNG Facility, Cove Point may need to purchase and process LNG. Cove Point needs to maintain the cryogenic readiness of the Cove Point LNG Facility when the terminal facilities are not being used by existing customers. Each year, one or two LNG cargos are procured and are billed to Cove Point's Import Shippers pursuant to a cost recovery mechanism set forth in Cove Point's FERC Gas Tariff. Such mechanism provides that, to the extent market conditions exist that neither import nor export services are being sufficiently utilized and LNG cooling quantities are required, the Import Shippers' responsibility for costs incurred for any LNG cooling quantities received prior to the earlier of operational commencement of the Liquefaction Project or March 2018 would be reduced to approximately half of such amounts incurred. If the Liquefaction Project has not commenced operations prior to March 2018 and LNG cooling quantities are required, Cove Point is responsible for any costs incurred until the Liquefaction Project commences operations. Upon operational commencement of the Liquefaction Project, the Import Shippers will have responsibility for costs incurred on certain LNG cooling quantities.. Following the completion of the Liquefaction Project, the Cove Point LNG Facility will be a bi-directional facility, reducing the risk that it will not be used for either import or export, and the addition of liquefaction facilities, which can be used to liquefy any boil-off gas, is expected to reduce any need for Cove Point to procure LNG for cooling purposes. However, Cove Point may need to maintain or obtain funds necessary to procure LNG to maintain the cryogenic readiness of the Cove Point LNG Facility in the future, which could adversely impact its ability to make payments on the Preferred Equity Interest.. RISKS INHERENT IN OUR BUSINESS GENERALLY. We are dependent on contractors and regulators for the successful completion of infrastructure projects and may be unable to complete infrastructure projects within initially anticipated timing. Infrastructure projects have been announced and additional projects may be considered in the future. We compete for projects with companies of varying size and financial capabilities, including some that may have advantages competing for natural gas supplies. Commencing construction on announced and future projects may require approvals from applicable state and federal agencies. Projects may not be able to be completed on time as a result of weather conditions, delays in obtaining or failure to obtain regulatory approvals, delays in obtaining key materials, labor difficulties, difficulties with partners or potential partners, a decline in the credit strength of counterparties or vendors, or other factors beyond our control. Even if facility construction, pipeline, expansion and other infrastructure projects are completed, the total costs of the projects may be higher than anticipated and the performance of our business following completion of the projects may not meet expectations. Start-up and operational issues can arise in connection with the commencement of commercial operation at our facilities. Such issues may include failure to meet specific operating parameters, which may require adjustments to meet or amend these operating parameters. Additionally, we may not be able to timely and effectively integrate the projects into our operations and such integration may result in unforeseen operating difficulties or unanticipated costs. Further, regulators may disallow recovery of some of the costs of a project if they are deemed not to be prudently incurred. Any of these or other factors could adversely affect our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from the infrastructure projects.. We may not be able to maintain, renew or replace our existing portfolio of customer contracts successfully, or on favorable terms and since these contracts are with a limited number of customers, we are subject to customer concentration risk. Upon contract expiration, customers may not elect to re-contract with us as a result of a variety of factors, including the amount of competition in the industry, changes in the price of natural gas and supply areas, their level of satisfaction with our services, the extent to which we are able to successfully execute our business plans and the effect of the regulatory framework on customer demand. The failure to replace any such customer contracts on similar terms could result in a loss of revenue for us. Further, we are subject to customer concentration risk in that several customers represent the majority of our contracted capacity. Producers with direct commodity price exposure face liquidity constraints, which could present a credit risk to Dominion Energy Midstream.. Our business is exposed to customer credit risk, and we may not be able to fully protect ourselves against such risk. Our business is subject to the risks of nonpayment and nonperformance by our customers. We have in the past and expect to continue to undertake capital expenditures based on commitments from customers upon which we expect to realize a return. Nonperformance by our customers of those commitments or termination of those commitments resulting from our inability to timely meet our obligations could result in substantial losses to us. In addition, some of our customers, counterparties and suppliers. 20. Table of Contents. may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks and, even if our credit review and analysis mechanisms work properly, we may experience financial losses in our dealings with such parties. Volatility in commodity prices might have an impact on many of our customers, which in turn could have a negative impact on their ability to meet their obligations to us. We manage our exposure to credit risk through credit analysis and monitoring procedures, and sometimes collateral, such as letters of credit, prepayments, liens on customer assets and guarantees. However, these procedures and policies cannot fully eliminate customer credit risk, and to the extent our policies and procedures prove to be inadequate, it could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Our results of operations, as well as construction of infrastructure projects, may be affected by changes in the weather. Fluctuations in weather can affect demand for our services. For example, milder than normal weather can reduce demand for gas transmission services. In addition, severe weather, including hurricanes, winter storms, earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters can disrupt operation of our facilities and cause service outages, construction delays and property damage that require incurring additional expenses. Furthermore, our operations, especially Cove Point, could be adversely affected and our physical plant placed at greater risk of damage should changes in global climate produce, among other possible conditions, unusual variations in temperature and weather patterns, resulting in more intense, frequent and extreme weather events, abnormal levels of precipitation or a change in sea level or sea temperatures.. Our operations and construction activities are subject to operational hazards, equipment failures, supply chain disruptions and personnel issues, which could create significant liabilities and losses, and negatively affect Cove Point. '. s ability to make payments on the Preferred Equity Interest and our ability to make distributions.. Operation of our facilities below expected capacity levels could result in lost revenues and increased expenses, including higher maintenance costs. Unplanned outages of our facilities and extensions of scheduled outages due to mechanical failures or other problems occur from time to time and are inherent risks of our business. Unplanned outages typically increase operation and maintenance expenses and may reduce our revenues as a result of. selling fewer services or incurring increased rate credits to customers. If we are unable to perform our contractual obligations, penalties or liability for damages could result.. In addition, there are many risks associated with our operations and the transportation, storage and processing of natural gas and LNG, including fires, explosions, uncontrolled releases of natural gas or other substances, the collision of third party equipment with pipelines and other environmental incidents. Such incidents could result in the loss of human life or injuries among employees, customers or the public in general, environmental pollution, damage or destruction of facilities or the property of third parties; business interruptions and associated public or employee safety impacts; loss of revenues, increased liabilities, heightened regulatory scrutiny, and reputational risk. Further, the location of pipelines and storage facilities, or transmission facilities near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial risks, could increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. We maintain property and casualty insurance that may cover certain damage and claims caused by such incidents, but other damage and claims arising from such incidents may not be covered or may exceed the amount of any insurance available, in which case such risks or losses could create significant liabilities that negatively affect Cove Point's ability to make payments on the Preferred Equity Interest or our ability to make distributions.. We do not own all of the land on which our facilities are located, which could result in disruptions to our operations. We do not own all of the land on which our facilities have been constructed, and we are, therefore, subject to the possibility of more onerous terms or increased costs to retain necessary land use if we do not have valid rights-of-way or if such rights-of-way lapse or terminate. We obtain the rights to construct and operate our assets on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of time. Our loss of these rights, through our inability to renew right-of-way contracts or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions.. We are subject to complex governmental regulation, including pipeline safety and integrity regulations, that could adversely affect our results of operations and subject us to monetary penalties. Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation, including the NGPSA, and require numerous permits, approvals and certificates from various governmental agencies. Such laws and regulations govern the terms and conditions of the services we offer, our relationships with affiliates, protection of our critical infrastructure assets and pipeline safety, among other matters. Our businesses are subject to regulatory regimes which could result in substantial monetary penalties if we are found not to be in compliance.. Federal and state agencies frequently impose conditions on our activities. These restrictions have become more stringent over time and can limit or prevent the construction of new transmission or distribution pipelines and related facilities. For example, we are subject to regulation by the DOT under PHMSA, which has established requirements relating to the design, installation, testing, construction, operation, replacement and management of pipeline facilities. PHMSA non-compliance presents a risk due to significant legislative mandates and pending rulemaking. The most recent reauthorization of PHMSA. 21. Table of Contents. included new provisions on historical records research, maximum-allowed operating pressure validation, use of automated or remote-controlled valves on new or replaced lines, increased civil penalties, and evaluation of expanding integrity management beyond high-consequence areas. PHMSA has not yet issued new rulemaking on most of these items. New laws or regulations, the revision or reinterpretation of existing laws or regulations, changes in enforcement practices of regulators, or penalties imposed for non-compliance with existing laws or regulations may result in substantial additional expense.. Our operations are also subject to a number of environmental laws and regulations that impose significant compliance costs on us, and existing and future environmental and similar laws and regulations could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions. Our operations and the Liquefaction Project and infrastructure projects are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, handling and disposal of hazardous materials and other wastes, and protection of natural resources and human health and safety. Many of these laws and regulations, such as the CAA, the CWA, the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, and the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, as amended, and analogous state laws and regulations require us to commit significant capital toward permitting, emission fees, environmental monitoring, installation and operation of pollution control equipment and the purchase of emission allowances and/or offsets in connection with the construction and operations of facilities. Violation of these laws and regulations could lead to substantial liabilities, fines and penalties, limitations on our ability to operate or to capital expenditures related to pollution control equipment that could have a material adverse effect on our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects. Additionally, federal and state laws impose liability, without regard to fault or the lawfulness of the original conduct, for the release of certain types or quantities of hazardous substances into the environment.. Revised, reinterpreted or additional laws and regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating or construction costs and restrictions could have a material adverse effect on our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects.. We are unable to estimate our compliance costs with certainty due to our inability to predict the requirements and timing of implementation of any future environmental rules or regulations. Other factors that affect our ability to predict future environmental expenditures with certainty include the difficulty in estimating any future clean-up costs and quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liability on all responsible parties. However, such expenditures, if material, could result in the impairment of assets or otherwise adversely affect the results of our operations, financial performance or liquidity and the ability of Cove Point to make payments on the Preferred Equity Interest or our ability to make distributions.. Any additional federal and/or state requirements imposed on energy companies mandating limitations on GHG emissions or requiring efficiency improvements, may adversely impact our business. There are potential impacts on our natural gas businesses as federal or state GHG legislation or regulations may require GHG emission reductions from the natural gas sector and. could affect demand for natural gas. Several regions of the U.S. have moved forward with GHG emission regulations, such as in the Northeast. There are numerous other regulatory approaches currently in effect or being considered to address GHGs, including additional future regulation by the EPA, new federal or state legislation that may impose a carbon emissions tax or establish a cap-and-trade program, or U.S. treaty commitments. Additional regulation of air emissions, including GHGs, under the CAA may be imposed on the natural gas sector, including rules to limit methane gas emissions. For example, the EPA adopted regulations in June 2016 to regulate upstream methane emissions from oil and gas production. Compliance with GHG emission reduction requirements may require the retrofitting or replacement of equipment or could otherwise increase the cost to operate and maintain our facilities. Additionally, GHG requirements could result in increased demand for energy conservation and renewable products, which in turn could affect demand for natural gas.. Potential changes in accounting practices may adversely affect our financial results. We cannot predict the impact that future changes in accounting standards or practices may have on public companies in general, the energy industry or our operations specifically. New accounting standards could be issued that could change the way we record revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. These changes in accounting standards could adversely affect earnings or could increase liabilities.. War, intentional acts and other significant events could adversely affect our operations or the development of the Liquefaction Project and infrastructure projects. We cannot predict the impact that world hostility may have on the energy industry in general or on our business in particular, including the development of the Liquefaction Project and infrastructure projects. Any retaliatory military strikes or sustained military campaign may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, such as changes in insurance markets and disruptions of fuel supplies and markets. In addition, our infrastructure facilities could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror. Furthermore, the physical compromise of our facilities could adversely affect our ability to manage our facilities effectively. Instability in financial markets as a result of terrorism, war, intentional acts, pandemic, credit crises, recession or other factors could result in a significant decline in the U.S. economy and increase the cost of insurance coverage, which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and Cove Point's ability to make payments on the Preferred Equity Interest or our ability to make distributions.. We are dependent upon our affiliates and their key personnel and employees, and we may not find a suitable replacement if the services agreements with DES and other affiliates are terminated or such key personnel are no longer available to us, which would materially and adversely affect us. We are managed and operated by the Board of Directors and executive officers of Dominion Energy Midstream GP, LLC, our general partner. We do not have any employees, nor does our general partner. All of the employees that conduct our business are employed by affiliates, and our general partner secures the personnel necessary to conduct our operations through its services agreement with DES. Our executive officers and the employees that conduct our business may have conflicts in allocating their time and services among us and our affiliates. Although our Board of Directors has. 22. Table of Contents. control over our executive officers, we have no authority over the individual employees. Accordingly, we are reliant upon, and our success depends upon, our affiliates' personnel and services. The failure of any of our affiliates' key personnel to service our business with the requisite time and dedication, the departure of such personnel from our affiliates or the failure of our affiliates to attract and retain key personnel would each materially and adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. Furthermore, if any of the services agreements with DES or other affiliates are terminated and suitable replacements for such entities are not secured in a timely manner or at all, we would likely be unable to conduct our business, which would materially and adversely affect us.. Hostile cyber intrusions could severely impair our operations, lead to the disclosure of confidential information, damage our reputation and otherwise have an adverse effect on our business. We own assets deemed by FERC as critical infrastructure, the operation of which is dependent on information technology systems. Further, the computer systems that run our facilities are not completely isolated from external networks. Parties that wish to disrupt the U.S. gas transmission system or our operations could view our computer systems, software or networks as attractive targets for a cyber-attack. For example, malware has been designed to target software that runs the nation's critical infrastructure such as gas pipelines. In addition, our businesses require that we and our vendors collect and maintain sensitive customer data, as well as confidential employee and unitholder information, which is subject to electronic theft or loss.. A successful cyber attack on the systems that control our gas transmission assets or the Cove Point Facilities could severely disrupt business operations, preventing us from serving customers or collecting revenues. The breach of certain business systems could affect our ability to correctly record, process and report financial information. A major cyber incident could result in significant expenses to investigate and repair security breaches or system damage and could lead to litigation, fines, other remedial action, heightened regulatory scrutiny and damage to our reputation. In addition, the misappropriation, corruption or loss of personally identifiable information and other confidential data could lead to significant breach notification expenses and mitigation expenses, such as credit monitoring. We maintain property and casualty insurance that may cover certain damage caused by potential cybersecurity incidents; however, other damage and claims arising from such incidents may not be covered or may exceed the amount of any insurance available. For these reasons, a significant cyber incident could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and Cove Point's ability to make payments on the Preferred Equity Interest or our ability to make distributions.. Certain of our operations are subject to FERC. '. s rate-making policies, which could limit our ability to recover the full cost of operating our assets, including earning a reasonable return, and have an adverse effect on Cove Point. '. s ability to make payments on the Preferred Equity Interest or our ability to make distributions.. jurisdictional services. The basic elements of rate-making that FERC considers are the costs of providing service, the volumes of gas being transported and handled, the rate design, the allocation of costs between services, the capital structure and the rate-of-return that a regulated entity is permitted to earn. The profitability of our business is dependent on our ability, through the rates that we are permitted to charge, to recover costs and earn a reasonable rate of return on our capital investment. FERC or our customers can challenge our existing jurisdictional rates, which we may be required to change should FERC find those rates to be unjust and unreasonable. Such a challenge could adversely affect our ability to maintain current revenue levels.. Upon filing a rate case, or when or if Cove Point, DECG, Dominion Energy Questar Pipeline, Iroquois or White River Hub has to defend its rates in a proceeding commenced by a customer or FERC, it will be required, among other things, to support its rates, by showing that they reflect recovery of its costs plus a reasonable return on its investment, in accordance with cost of service ratemaking.. In addition, as part of our obligations to support rates, we are required to establish the inclusion of an income tax allowance in our cost of service as just and reasonable. On December 15, 2016, FERC issued a Notice of Inquiry requesting energy industry input on how FERC should address income tax allowances in cost-based rates proposed by pipeline companies organized as part of a MLP. FERC's current policy permits pipelines and storage companies to include a tax allowance in the cost-of-service used as the basis for calculating their regulated rates. For pipelines and storage companies owned by partnerships or limited liability companies, the current tax allowance policy reflects the actual or potential income tax liability on the FERC jurisdictional income attributable to all partnership or limited liability company interests if the ultimate owner of the interest has an actual or potential income tax liability on such income. FERC issued the Notice of Inquiry in response to a remand from the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit in United Airlines v. FERC, in which the court determined that FERC had not justified its conclusion that an oil pipeline organized as a partnership would not \"double recover\" its taxes under the current policy by both including a tax allowance in its cost-based rates and earning a return on equity calculated on a pre-tax basis. We cannot predict whether FERC will successfully justify its conclusion that there is no double recovery of taxes under these circumstances or whether FERC will modify its current policy on either income tax allowances or return on equity calculations for pipeline companies organized as part of a MLP. However, any modification that reduces or eliminates an income tax allowance for pipeline companies organized as a part of a MLP or decreases the return on equity for such pipelines could result in an adverse impact on our revenues associated with the transportation and storage services we provide pursuant to cost-based rates. Some entities have authority to charge market-based rates and therefore this tax allowance issue does not affect the rates that they charge their customers.. An adverse determination by FERC with respect to our open access rates could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, earnings and cash flows and Cove Point's ability to make payments on the Preferred Equity Interest or our ability to make distributions.. 23. Table of Contents. The 2017 Tax Reform Act could have a material impact on our FERC-regulated operations including rates charged to customers, cash flows, and financial results.. RISKS INHERENT IN AN INVESTMENT IN US. Dominion Energy owns and controls our general partner, which has sole responsibility for conducting our business and managing our operations. Our general partner and its affiliates, including Dominion Energy, have conflicts of interest with us and limited duties, and they may favor their own interests to our detriment and that of our unitholders. Dominion Energy owns and controls our general partner and appoints all of the directors of our general partner. Although our general partner has a duty to manage us in a manner that it believes is not adverse to our interest, the executive officers and directors of our general partner have a fiduciary duty to manage our general partner in a manner beneficial to Dominion Energy. Therefore, conflicts of interest may arise between Dominion Energy or any of its affiliates, including our general partner, on the one hand, and us or any of our unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts of interest, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of our common unitholders. These conflicts include the following situations, among others:. <U+0095>   Our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as Dominion Energy, in exercising certain rights under our partnership agreement;. <U+0095>   Neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires Dominion Energy to pursue a business strategy that favors us;. <U+0095>   Our partnership agreement replaces the fiduciary duties that would otherwise be owed by our general partner with contractual standards governing its duties, limits our general partner's liabilities and restricts the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without such limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty;   <U+0095>   Except in limited circumstances, our general partner has the power and authority to conduct our business without unitholder approval;   <U+0095>   Our general partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, borrowings, issuances of additional partnership securities and the level of cash reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders;   <U+0095>   Our general partner determines the amount and timing of any cash expenditure and whether an expenditure is classified as a maintenance capital expenditure, which reduces operating surplus, or an expansion capital expenditure, which does not reduce operating surplus. This determination can affect the amount of cash from operating surplus that is distributed to our unitholders, which, in turn, may affect the ability of the subordinated units to convert;   <U+0095>   Our general partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make a distribution on the subordinated units, to make incentive distributions or to accelerate the expiration of the subordination period;   <U+0095>   Our partnership agreement permits us to distribute up to $45.0 million as operating surplus, even if it is generated from asset sales, non-working capital borrowings or other sources that would otherwise constitute capital surplus. This cash may be used to fund distributions on our subordinated units or the IDRs;   <U+0095>   Our general partner determines which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us;   <U+0095>   Our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with its affiliates on our behalf;   <U+0095>   Our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations;   <U+0095>   Our general partner may exercise its right to call and purchase common units if it and its affiliates own more than 80% of the outstanding common units;   <U+0095>   Our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations that it and its affiliates owe to us;   <U+0095>   Our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us; and   <U+0095>   Our general partner may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to our general partner's IDRs without the approval of the Conflicts Committee or the unitholders. This election may result in lower distributions to the common unitholders in certain situations. In addition, we may compete directly with Dominion Energy and entities in which it has an interest for acquisition opportunities and potentially will compete with these entities for new business or extensions of the existing services provided by us.. 24. Table of Contents. The Board of Directors of our general partner may modify or revoke our cash distribution policy at any time at its discretion. Our partnership agreement does not require us to pay any distributions at all on our common and subordinated units. The Board of Directors of our general partner adopted a cash distribution policy pursuant to which we intend to make quarterly distributions on all of our units to the extent we have sufficient cash after the establishment of cash reserves and the payment of our expenses, including payments to our general partner and its affiliates. However, the Board of Directors of our general partner may change such policy at any time at its discretion and could elect not to pay distributions for one or more quarters.. In addition, our partnership agreement does not require us to pay any distributions at all on our common and subordinated units. Accordingly, investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the permanence of such a policy in making an investment decision. Any modification or revocation of our cash distribution policy could substantially reduce or eliminate the amounts of distributions to our common and subordinated unitholders. The amount of distributions we make, if any, and the decision to make any distribution at all will be determined by the Board of Directors of our general partner, whose interests may differ from those of our common unitholders. Our general partner has limited duties to our unitholders, which may permit it to favor its own interests or the interests of Dominion Energy to the detriment of our common unitholders.. Our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our obligations. Our general partner intends to limit its liability under contractual arrangements between us and third parties so that the counterparties to such arrangements have recourse only against our assets, and not against our general partner or its assets. Our general partner may therefore cause us to incur indebtedness or other obligations that are nonrecourse to our general partner. Our partnership agreement provides that any action taken by our general partner to limit its liability is not a breach of our general partner's duties, even if we could have obtained more favorable terms without the limitation on liability. In addition, we are obligated to reimburse or indemnify our general partner to the extent that it incurs obligations on our behalf. Any such reimbursement or indemnification payments would reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution to our common and subordinated unitholders.. We expect to distribute a significant portion of our distributable cash flow to our partners, which could limit our ability to grow and make acquisitions. We plan to distribute most of our distributable cash flow, which may cause our growth to proceed at a slower pace than that of businesses that reinvest their cash to expand ongoing operations. To the extent we issue additional units in connection with any acquisitions or expansion capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional units may increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain or increase our per unit distribution level. There are no limitations in our partnership agreement on our ability to issue additional units, including units ranking senior to the common units. The incurrence of additional commercial borrowings or other debt to finance our growth strategy would result in increased interest expense, which, in turn, may impact the cash that we have available to distribute to our common and subordinated unitholders.. Our partnership agreement replaces our general partner. '. s fiduciary duties to holders of our units.. <U+0095>   How to allocate business opportunities among us and its affiliates;. <U+0095>   Whether to exercise its limited call right;. <U+0095>   How to exercise its voting rights with respect to the units it owns;. <U+0095>   Whether to exercise its registration rights;. <U+0095>   Whether to elect to reset target distribution levels; and. <U+0095>   Whether to consent to any merger or consolidation of Dominion Energy Midstream or amendment to the partnership agreement.. By purchasing a common unit, a unitholder is treated as having consented to the provisions in the partnership agreement, including the provisions discussed above.. Our partnership agreement restricts the remedies available to holders of our units for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that restrict the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty under state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement provides that:. <U+0095>   Whenever our general partner makes a determination or takes, or declines to take, any other action in its capacity as our general partner, our general partner generally is required to make such determination, or take or decline to take such other action, in good faith, and will not be subject to any higher standard imposed by our partnership agreement, Delaware law, or any other law, rule or regulation, or at equity;. <U+0095>   Our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages or otherwise to us or our limited partners resulting from any act or omission unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that such losses or liabilities were the result of conduct in which our general partner or its officers or directors engaged in bad faith, meaning that they believed that the decision was adverse to the interest of Dominion Energy Midstream or, with respect to any criminal conduct, with knowledge that such conduct was unlawful; and. <U+0095>   Our general partner will not be in breach of its obligations under the partnership agreement or its duties to us or our limited partners if a transaction with an affiliate or the resolution of a conflict of interest is:. (1) Approved by the Conflicts Committee, although our general partner is not obligated to seek such approval; or. 25. Table of Contents. (2) Approved by the vote of a majority of the outstanding common units, excluding any common units owned by our general partner and its affiliates, and the Series A Preferred Units voting together as a single class.. In connection with a situation involving a transaction with an affiliate or a conflict of interest, other than one where our general partner is permitted to act in its sole discretion, any determination by our general partner must be made in good faith. If an affiliate transaction or the resolution of a conflict of interest is not approved by our common unitholders or the Conflicts Committee then it will be presumed that, in making its decision, taking any action or failing to act, the Board of Directors acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or Dominion Energy Midstream, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption.. Our Series A Preferred Units have rights, preferences and privileges that are not held by, and are preferential to the rights of, holders of our common units. Our Series A Preferred Units rank senior to all of our other classes or series of equity securities with respect to distribution rights. These preferences may adversely affect the market price for our common units, or could make it more difficult for us to sell our common units in the future.. In addition, distributions on the Series A Preferred Units accrue and are cumulative. Our obligation to pay distributions on our Series A Preferred Units or on the common units issued following the conversion of such Series A Preferred Units, may impact our liquidity and reduce the amount of cash flow available for working capital, capital expenditures, growth opportunities, acquisitions and other general partnership purposes. Our obligations to the holders of Series A Preferred Units could also limit our ability to obtain additional financing or increase our borrowing costs, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition.. Dominion Energy and other affiliates of our general partner may compete with us. Our partnership agreement provides that our general partner will be restricted from engaging in any business activities other than acting as our general partner, engaging in activities incidental to its ownership interest in us and providing management, advisory, and administrative services to its affiliates or to other persons. However, affiliates of our general partner, including Dominion Energy, are not prohibited from engaging in other businesses or activities, including those that might be in direct competition with us. In addition, Dominion Energy may compete with us for investment opportunities and may own an interest in entities that compete with us.. Pursuant to the terms of our partnership agreement, the doctrine of corporate opportunity, or any analogous doctrine, does not apply to our general partner or any of its affiliates, including its executive officers and directors and Dominion Energy. Any such person or entity that becomes aware of a potential transaction, agreement, arrangement or other matter that may be an opportunity for us will not have any duty to communicate or offer such opportunity to us. Any such person or entity will not be liable to us or to any limited partner for breach of any fiduciary duty or other duty by reason of the fact that such person or entity pursues or acquires such opportunity for itself, directs such. opportunity to another person or entity or does not communicate such opportunity or information to us. This may create actual and potential conflicts of interest between us and affiliates of our general partner and result in less than favorable treatment of us and our unitholders.. The holder or holders of our IDRs may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to the IDRs, without the approval of the Conflicts Committee or the holders of our common units. This could result in lower distributions to holders of our common units. The holder or holders of a majority of our IDRs (initially our general partner) have the right, at any time when there are no subordinated units outstanding, and we have made cash distributions in excess of the highest then-applicable target distribution for each of the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters, to reset the initial target distribution levels at higher levels based on our cash distribution levels at the time of the exercise of the reset election. Following a reset election by our general partner, the minimum quarterly distribution will be calculated equal to an amount equal to the prior cash distribution per common unit for the fiscal quarter immediately preceding the reset election (which amount we refer to as the \"reset minimum quarterly distribution\"), and the target distribution levels will be reset to correspondingly higher levels based on percentage increases above the reset minimum quarterly distribution. If our general partner elects to reset the target distribution levels, it will be entitled to receive a number of common units equal to the number of common units that would have entitled the holder to an aggregate quarterly cash distribution for the quarter prior to the reset election equal to the distribution on the IDRs for the quarter prior to the reset election.. We anticipate that our general partner would exercise this reset right in order to facilitate acquisitions or internal growth projects that would not be sufficiently accretive to cash distributions per unit without such conversion. However, our general partner may transfer the IDRs at any time. It is possible that our general partner or a transferee could exercise this reset election at a time when we are experiencing declines in our aggregate cash distributions or at a time when the holders of the IDRs expect that we will experience declines in our aggregate cash distributions in the foreseeable future. In such situations, the holders of the IDRs may be experiencing, or may expect to experience, declines in the cash distributions it receives related to the IDRs and may therefore desire to be issued our common units rather than retain the right to receive incentive distributions based on the initial target distribution levels. As a result, a reset election may cause our common unitholders to experience a reduction in the amount of cash distributions that they would have otherwise received had we not issued new common units to the holders of the IDRs in connection with resetting the target distribution levels.. Unitholders have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our general partner or its directors, which could reduce the price at which our common units will trade. Compared to the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have limited voting rights and, therefore, limited ability to influence management's decisions regarding our business. Unitholders will have no right on an annual or ongoing basis to elect our general partner or its Board of Directors. The Board of Directors of our general partner, including the independent directors, is chosen. 26. Table of Contents. entirely by Dominion Energy, as a result of it owning our general partner, and not by our unitholders. Unlike publicly traded corporations, we will not conduct annual meetings of our unitholders to elect directors or conduct other matters routinely conducted at annual meetings of stockholders of corporations. As a result of these limitations, the price at which the common units will trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price.. Even if holders of our common units are dissatisfied, they cannot initially remove our general partner without its consent. If our unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they will have limited ability to remove our general partner. Unitholders are unable to remove our general partner without its consent because our general partner and its affiliates own sufficient units to prevent its removal. The vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of all outstanding common and subordinated units and Series A Preferred Units voting together as a single class is required to remove our general partner. At December 31, 2017, Dominion Energy owned an aggregate of 47.5% of our limited partner interest. In addition, any vote to remove our general partner during the subordination period must provide for the election of a successor general partner by the holders of a majority of the common units and a majority of the subordinated units, voting as separate classes. This will provide Dominion Energy the ability to prevent the removal of our general partner.. Our general partner interest or the control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent.. A change of control may result in default under our term loan agreement.. The IDRs may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer the IDRs to a third party at any time without the consent of our unitholders. If our general partner transfers the IDRs to a third party, our general partner would not have the same incentive to grow our partnership and increase quarterly distributions to unitholders over time. For example, a transfer of IDRs by our general partner could reduce the likelihood of Dominion Energy accepting offers made by us relating to assets owned by Dominion Energy, as it would have less of an economic incentive to grow our business, which in turn would impact our ability to grow our asset base.. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require unitholders to sell their common units at an undesirable time or. price. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of any class of outstanding limited partner interests other than the Series A Preferred Units, our general partner will have the right, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, but not the obligation, to acquire all, but not less than all, of such class of limited partner interests held by unaffiliated persons at a price equal to the greater of (1) the average of the daily closing price of the common units over the 20 trading days preceding the date three days before notice of exercise of the limited call right is first mailed and (2) the highest per-unit price paid by our general partner or any of its affiliates for common units during the 90-day period preceding the date such notice is first mailed. As a result, unitholders may be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return or a negative return on their investment. Unitholders may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of their units. Our general partner is not obligated to obtain a fairness opinion regarding the value of the common units to be repurchased by it upon exercise of the limited call right. There is no restriction in our partnership agreement that prevents our general partner from causing us to issue additional common units and then exercising its limited call right.. If our general partner exercised its limited call right, the effect would be to take us private and, if the units were subsequently deregistered, we would no longer be subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. At December 31, 2017, Dominion Energy owned an aggregate of 50.6% of our common and subordinated units.. Our general partner may amend our partnership agreement, as it determines necessary or advisable, to permit the general partner to redeem the units of certain unitholders. Our general partner may amend our partnership agreement, as it determines necessary or advisable, to obtain proof of the U.S. federal income tax status or the nationality, citizenship or other related status of our limited partners (and their owners, to the extent relevant) and to permit our general partner to redeem the units held by any person (i) whose tax status has or is reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on the maximum applicable rates chargeable to our customers, (ii) whose nationality, citizenship or related status creates substantial risk of cancellation or forfeiture of any of our property or (iii) who fails to comply with the procedures established to obtain such proof. The redemption price in the case of such a redemption will be the average of the daily closing prices per unit for the 20 consecutive trading days immediately prior to the date set for redemption.. We may issue additional units without unitholder approval, which would dilute existing unitholder ownership interests. Our partnership agreement does not limit the number of additional limited partner interests we may issue at any time without the approval of our unitholders. The issuance of additional common units or other equity interests of equal or senior rank will have the following effects:. <U+0095>   Our existing unitholders' proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease;. <U+0095>   The amount of distributable cash flow on each unit may decrease;. <U+0095>   Because a lower percentage of total outstanding units will be subordinated units, the risk that a shortfall in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution will be borne by our common unitholders will increase;. 27. Table of Contents. <U+0095>   The ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase;. <U+0095>   The relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and. <U+0095>   The market price of the common units may decline.. There are no limitations in our partnership agreement on our ability to issue units ranking senior to the common units or equal to our Series A Preferred Units. In accordance with Delaware law and the provisions of our partnership agreement, we may issue additional partnership interests that are senior to the common units in right of distribution, liquidation and voting. The issuance by us of units of senior rank to our common units may (i) reduce or eliminate the amount of distributable cash flow to our common unitholders; (ii) diminish the relative voting strength of the total common units outstanding as a class; or (iii) further subordinate the claims of the common unitholders to our assets in the event of our liquidation.. The market price of our common units could be adversely affected by sales of substantial amounts of our common units or Series A Preferred Units in the public or private markets, including sales by Dominion Energy or other large holders.. Our Series A Preferred Units are convertible into common units on a one-for-one basis, subject to certain limitations and adjustments and subject to certain minimum conversion amounts, (i) in whole or in part at the option of the holders of the Series A Preferred Units any time after December 1, 2018 or prior to a liquidation of Dominion Energy Midstream or (ii) in whole or in part at our option any time after December 1, 2019 under certain circumstances. In addition, the holders of our Series A Preferred Units are entitled to certain conversion and redemption rights upon a change of control. In certain circumstances and subject to certain limitations, we may be permitted to issue common units in lieu of cash to satisfy redemption prices with respect to the Series A Preferred Units. The number of units issued for such payments will be determined based on the value of our common units and the specified premium set forth in our partnership agreement for conversion or redemption of the Series A Preferred Units in certain circumstances, and could be substantial, especially during periods of significant declines in market prices of our common units. If a substantial portion of our subordinated units or Series A Preferred Units are converted into common units or if we issued a substantial number of common units in lieu of cash to satisfy redemption prices with respect to the Series A Preferred Units, common unitholders could experience significant dilution.. Sales by Dominion Energy or other large holders of a substantial number of our common units in the public markets, or the perception that such sales might occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common units or could impair our ability to obtain capital through an offering of equity securities. In addition, we have agreed to provide registration rights to Dominion Energy and the purchasers of our common units and Series A Preferred Units under the Private Placement Agreement. Under our partnership agreement, our general partner and its affiliates have registration rights relating to the offer and sale of. any units that they hold. In addition, under the Private Placement Agreement, the purchasers and their assignees have registration rights with respect to (i) the common units purchased thereunder and (ii) the common units issuable upon conversion of the Series A Preferred Units they hold. Alternatively, we may be required to undertake a future public or private offering of common units and use the net proceeds from such offering to redeem an equal number of common units held by Dominion Energy.. Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our units. Our partnership agreement restricts unitholders' voting rights by providing that any units held by a person or group that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner and its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the Board of Directors of our general partner, cannot vote on any matter.. Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, as amended, we may not make a distribution to our unitholders if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of the impermissible distribution, limited partners that received the distribution and knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interests and liabilities that are non-recourse to Dominion Energy Midstream are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted.. The NYSE does not require a publicly traded partnership like us to comply with certain of its corporate governance requirements. The common units are listed on the NYSE. Because we are a publicly traded partnership, the NYSE does not require us to have a majority of independent directors on our general partner's Board of Directors or to establish a compensation committee or a nominating and corporate governance committee. Accordingly, unitholders do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of certain corporations that are subject to all of the NYSE's corporate governance requirements.. TAX RISKS TO UNITHOLDERS. Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes and not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation. If the IRS were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, or if we were to become subject to entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, then our cash available for distribution to unitholders would be substantially reduced. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. Despite the fact that we are organized as a limited partnership under Delaware law, we would be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes unless we satisfy a \"qualifying income\" requirement. Based upon our current operations, we believe we satisfy the qualifying income requirement. However, we have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from. 28. Table of Contents. the IRS on this or any other matter affecting us. Failing to meet the qualifying income requirement or a change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity.. If we were treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would pay U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to our unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses or deductions would flow through to our unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units.. Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for U.S. federal, state, local, or foreign income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law or interpretation on us. At the state level, several states have been evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise or other forms of taxation. Currently, we own assets and conduct business in states that impose margin or franchise taxes. In the future, we may expand our operations. Imposition of a similar tax on us in other jurisdictions to which we expand could substantially reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders.. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our common units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes, or differing interpretations, possibly applied on a retroactive basis. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative, or judicial action, changes or differing interpretations at any time. From time to time, members of the U.S. Congress propose and consider substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships. Although there is no current legislative proposal, a prior legislative proposal would have eliminated the \"qualifying income\" exception to the treatment of all publicly traded partnerships as corporations upon which we rely for our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. In addition, on January 24, 2017, final regulations regarding which activities give rise to qualifying income within the meaning of Section 7704 of the IRC (the \"Final Regulations\") were published in the Federal Register. The Final Regulations are effective as of January 19, 2017, and apply to taxable years beginning on or after January 19, 2017. We do not believe the Final Regulations affect our ability to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. However, any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws may be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible for us to meet the exception for certain publicly. traded partnerships to be treated as partnerships for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes or other proposals will ultimately be enacted. Any similar future legislative changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our units. You are urged to consult with your own tax advisor with respect to the status of regulatory or administrative developments and proposals and their potential effect on your investment in our common units.. If the IRS were to contest the U.S. federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units could be adversely impacted, and the cost of any IRS contest would reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. Additionally, the costs of any contest between us and the IRS will result in a reduction in cash available for distribution to our unitholders and thus will be borne indirectly by our unitholders.. If the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns for taxable years beginning after December. 31, 2017, it (and some states) may assess and collect any taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) resulting from such audit adjustments directly from us, in which case our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially reduced, and our current and former unitholders may be required to indemnify us for any taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) resulting from such audit adjustments that were paid on such unitholders. '. behalf.. 29. Table of Contents. behalf. These rules are not applicable for tax years beginning on or prior to December 31, 2017.. Our unitholders are required to pay taxes on their share of our income even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us. Our unitholders are required to pay U.S. federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes, on their share of our taxable income, whether or not they receive cash distributions from us. For example, if we sell assets and use the proceeds to repay existing debt or fund capital expenditures, our unitholders may be allocated taxable income and gain resulting from the sale and our cash available for distribution would not increase. Similarly, taking advantage of opportunities to reduce our existing debt, such as debt exchanges, debt repurchases, or modifications of our existing debt could result in \"cancellation of indebtedness income\" being allocated to our unitholders as taxable income without any increase in our cash available for distribution. Our unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income.. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected. If a unitholder sells common units, the unitholder will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and that unitholder's tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of a unitholder's allocable share of our net taxable income decrease such unitholder's tax basis in its common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the units sold will, in effect, become taxable to a unitholder if it sells such units at a price greater than its tax basis in those units, even if the price the unitholder receives is less than its original cost. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder's share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if a unitholder sells its units, the unitholder may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash received from the sale.. A substantial portion of the amount realized from a unitholder's sale of our units, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income to the unitholder due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. Thus, a unitholder may recognize both ordinary income and capital loss from the sale of units if the amount realized on a sale of such units is less than the unitholder's adjusted basis in the units. Net capital loss may only offset capital gains and, in the case of individuals, up to $3,000 of ordinary income per year. In the taxable period in which a unitholder sells its units, the unitholder may recognize ordinary income from our allocations of income and gain to the unitholder prior to the sale and from recapture items that generally cannot be offset by any capital loss recognized upon the sale of units.. Unitholders may be subject to limitation on their ability to deduct interest expense incurred by us. In general, we are entitled to a deduction for interest paid or accrued on indebtedness properly allocable to our trade or business during our taxable year. However, under the 2017 Tax Reform Act for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, our deduction for \"business interest\" is limited to the sum of our business interest income and 30% of our \"adjusted taxable income.\" For purposes of this limitation, our adjusted taxable income is computed without regard to any business interest expense or business interest income, and in the case of taxable years beginning before January 1, 2022, any deduction allowable for depreciation, amortization, or depletion.. Tax-exempt entities face unique tax issues from owning our common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in our common units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and IRAs raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from U.S. federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Further, with respect to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, a tax-exempt entity with more than one unrelated trade or business (including by attribution from investment in a partnership such as ours that is engaged in one or more unrelated trades or businesses) is required to compute the unrelated business taxable income of such tax-exempt entity separately with respect to each such trade or business (including for purposes of determining any net operating loss deduction). As a result, for years beginning after December 31, 2017, it may not be possible for tax-exempt entities to utilize losses from an investment in our partnership to offset unrelated business taxable income from another unrelated trade or business and vice versa. Tax-exempt entities should consult a tax advisor before investing in our common units.. Non-U.S. unitholders will be subject to U.S. taxes and withholding with respect to their income and gain from owning our units. Non-U.S. unitholders are generally taxed and subject to income tax filing requirements by the United States on income effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business (\"effectively connected income\"). Income allocated to our unitholders and any gain from the sale of our units will generally be considered to be \"effectively connected\" with a U.S. trade or business. As a result, distributions to a non-U.S. unitholder will be subject to withholding at the highest applicable effective tax rate and a non-U.S. unitholder who sells or otherwise disposes of a unit will also be subject to U.S. federal income tax on the gain realized from the sale or disposition of that unit.. The 2017 Tax Reform Act imposes a withholding obligation of 10% of the amount realized upon a non-U.S. unitholder's sale or exchange of an interest in a partnership that is engaged in a U.S. trade or business. However, due to challenges of administering a withholding obligation applicable to open market trading and other complications, the IRS has temporarily suspended the application of this withholding rule to open market transfers of interests in publicly traded partnerships pending promulgation of regulations or other guidance that resolves the challenges. It is not clear if or when such regulations or other guidance will be issued. Non-U.S. unitholders should consult a tax advisor before investing in our common units.. We treat each purchaser of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the common units actually purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of our common units, and for other reasons, we have adopted depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of the provisions of the IRC of 1986, as amended, or existing and proposed Treasury regulations thereunder. Our counsel is unable to opine as to the validity of this approach. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from a sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of. 30. Table of Contents. our common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders' tax returns.. We generally prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our common units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month (the. \". Allocation Date. \". ), instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.. A unitholder whose common units are the subject of a securities loan (e.g., a loan to a. \". short seller. \". to cover a short sale of units) may be considered to have disposed of those common units. If so, the unitholder would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and could recognize gain or loss from the disposition.. We may adopt certain valuation methodologies in determining a unitholder. '. s allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction. The IRS may challenge these methodologies or the. resulting allocations, which could adversely affect the value of our common units.. the common units, or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders' tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions.. Our unitholders will likely be subject to state and local taxes and income tax return filing requirements in jurisdictions where they do not live as a result of investing in our common units. In addition to U.S. federal income taxes, our unitholders may be subject to other taxes, including foreign, state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or own property now or in the future, even if they do not live in any of those jurisdictions. Our unitholders will likely be required to file foreign, state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, our unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements.. We currently own assets and conduct business in multiple states, most of which currently impose a personal income tax on individuals, corporations and other entities. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own assets or conduct business in additional states or foreign jurisdictions that impose income or similar taxes on nonresident individuals. It is each unitholder's responsibility to file all foreign, U.S. federal, state and local tax returns. Our counsel has not rendered an opinion on the state or local tax consequences of investment in our common units."
