[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. There are inherent risks and uncertainties associated with our global operations that involve the technology development, manufacturing and sale of products for highly demanding customer applications throughout the world. These risks and uncertainties could adversely affect our operating performance and financial condition. The following discussion, along with discussions elsewhere in this report, outlines the risks and uncertainties that we believe are the most material to our business at this time. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, unless required by law.. Economic Environment - the demand for our products is impacted by economic and industrial conditions worldwide.. Changes in economic or industrial conditions could impact our results or financial condition as our business can be sensitive to varying conditions in all major geographies and markets.. Products - maintaining a competitive advantage requires consistent investment with uncertain returns.. We operate in highly competitive markets and have numerous competitors that may already be well-established in those markets. We expect our competitors to continue improving the design and performance of their products and to introduce new products that could be competitive in both price and performance. We believe that we have certain technological advantages over our competitors, but maintaining these advantages requires us to consistently invest in research and development, sales and marketing and customer service and support. There is no guarantee that we will be successful in maintaining these advantages and we could encounter the commoditization of our key products. We make investments in new technologies that address increased performance and regulatory requirements around the globe. There is no guarantee that we will be successful in completing development or achieving sales of these products or that the margins on such products will be acceptable. Our financial performance may be negatively impacted if a competitor's successful product innovation reaches the market before ours or gains broader market acceptance.. Evolving Customer Needs - disruptive technologies may threaten our long-term strategy.. Our long-term strategy guides the decisions we make in operating the Company, but this strategy could be threatened by disruptive technologies. We may be adversely impacted by changes in technology that could reduce or eliminate the demand for our products. These risks include wider adoption of technologies providing alternatives to diesel engines such as electrification of equipment. Such disruptive innovation could create new markets and displace existing companies and products, resulting in significantly negative consequences for the Company. If we do not properly address future customer needs in our strategy, we may be slower to adapt to such disruption, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. Competition - we participate in highly competitive markets with pricing pressure.. The businesses and product lines in which we participate are very competitive and we risk losing business based on a wide range of factors, including price, technology, product performance, product reliability and availability, geographic coverage and customer service. Our customers continue to seek technological innovation, productivity gains and competitive prices from us and their other suppliers. If we are not able to compete effectively, our margins and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Intellectual Property - demand for our products may be affected by new entrants that copy our products and/or infringe on our intellectual property.. The ability to protect and enforce intellectual property rights varies across jurisdictions. An inability to preserve our intellectual property rights may adversely affect our financial performance.. 3. Where possible, we seek to preserve our intellectual property rights through patents. These patents have a limited life and, in some cases, have expired or will expire in the near future. Competitors and others may also initiate litigation to challenge the validity of our intellectual property or allege that we infringe their intellectual property. We may be required to pay substantial damages if it is determined our products infringe on their intellectual property. We may also be required to develop an alternative, non-infringing product that could be costly and time-consuming, or acquire a license on terms that are not favorable to us.. Protecting or defending against such claims could significantly increase our costs, divert management's time and attention away from other business matters and otherwise adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Global Operations - we have a broad footprint that makes operating globally difficult.. We have sales and manufacturing operations throughout the world. Our stability, growth and profitability are subject to a number of risks of doing business globally that could harm our business, including:. • political and military events, including the rise of nationalism and support for protectionist policies,. • tariffs, trade barriers and other trade restrictions,. • legal and regulatory requirements, including import, export, defense regulations, anti-corruption laws and foreign exchange controls,. • potential difficulties in staffing and managing local operations,. • credit risk of local customers and distributors,. • difficulties in protecting our intellectual property and. • local economic, political and social conditions.. Due to the international scope of our operations, we are subject to a complex system of import- and export-related laws and regulations. Any alleged or actual violations may subject us to government scrutiny, investigation and civil and criminal penalties, and may limit our ability to import or export our products or to provide services outside the U.S.. The enforcement of bribery, corruption and trade laws and regulations is increasing in frequency and complexity on a global basis. The continued geographic expansion of our business increases our exposure to, and cost of complying with, these laws and regulations. If our compliance programs do not adequately prevent or deter our employees, agents, distributors, suppliers and other third parties with whom we do business from violating anti-corruption laws, we may incur defense costs, fines, penalties, reputational damage and business disruptions.. Customer Concentration and Retention - a number of our customers operate in similar cyclical industries.  Economic conditions in these industries could impact our sales.. No customer accounted for ten percent or more of our net sales in fiscal 2018, 2017 or 2016. However, a number of our customers are concentrated in similar cyclical industries (e.g. construction, agriculture, mining, power generation and disk drives), resulting in additional risk based on industrial conditions in those sectors. A decline in the economic conditions of these industries could result in reduced demand for our products and difficulty in collecting amounts due from our customers. Our success is also dependent on retaining key customers, which requires us to successfully manage relationships and anticipate the needs of our customers in the channels in which we sell our products.. Supply Chain - unavailable or material cost inflation.. We obtain raw materials, including steel, filter media, petroleum-based products and other components, from third-party suppliers and tend to carry limited raw material inventories. We concentrate our sourcing of some materials from one supplier or a few suppliers. Our success is dependent on our ability to effectively manage our supplier relationships. Additionally, global supplier production capacity is limited and could be disrupted. We may experience significant disruption of the supply of raw materials, parts, components or final assemblies. An unanticipated delay in delivery by our suppliers could result in the inability to deliver our products on-time and meet the expectations of our customers. An increase in the costs of doing business, including increasing raw material commodity prices and transportation costs, could also result in lower operating margins.. Operations - inability to meet demand could result in the loss of customers.. Our ability to fulfill customer orders is dependent on our manufacturing and distribution operations overcoming capacity constraints. Although we forecast demand, additional plant capacity takes months or even years to bring online, and thus changes in demand could result in longer lead times. Efficient operations also require streamlining processes to maintain or reduce lead times, which we may not be capable of achieving. Unacceptable levels of service for key customers may result if we are not able to fulfill orders on a timely basis or if product quality or warranty issues result from compromised production. Our business, competitive position, results of operations or financial condition could be negatively impacted if we are unable to adjust our production schedules to reflect changes in customer demand on a timely basis.. 4. Technology Investments and Security Risks - difficulties with our information technology systems and security.. We have many information technology systems that are important to the operation of our business, some of which are managed by third parties. These systems are used to process, transmit and store electronic information and to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities. We could encounter difficulties in developing new systems, maintaining and upgrading our existing systems, managing access to these systems and preventing information security breaches. Such difficulties could lead to significant additional expenses and/or disruption in business operations that could adversely affect our results.. Additionally, information technology security threats are increasing in frequency and sophistication. We have found and addressed these threats from time to time; however, to date none of them have been material. These threats pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data. Should such an attack succeed, it could lead to the compromising of confidential information, manipulation and destruction of data, defective products, production downtimes and operations disruptions. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our reputation and could result in litigation, regulatory action, potential liability and increased costs and operational consequences of implementing further data protection matters.. Currency - an unfavorable fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates.. We have operations in many countries, with a substantial portion of our annual revenue earned in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. We face transactional and translational risks associated with the fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Transactional risk arises from changes in the value of cash flows denominated in different currencies. This can be caused by supply chains that cross borders resulting in revenues and costs being in different currencies. In addition, decreased value of local currency may make it difficult for some of our customers, distributors and end users to purchase our products. Translational risk arises from the re-measurement of our financial statements. Each of our subsidiaries reports its results of operations and financial position in its relevant functional currency, which is then translated into U.S. dollars. This translated financial information is included in our consolidated financial statements. Significant fluctuations of the U.S. dollar in comparison to the foreign currencies of our subsidiaries during discrete periods may have a negative impact on our results and financial position.. Legal and Regulatory - costs associated with lawsuits, investigations or complying with laws and regulations.. We are subject to many laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. We routinely incur costs in order to comply with these laws and regulations. We may be adversely impacted by new or changing laws and regulations that affect both our operations and our ability to develop and sell products that meet our customers' requirements. We are involved in various product liability, product warranty, intellectual property, environmental claims and other legal proceedings that arise in and outside of the ordinary course of our business. We are subject to increasingly stringent laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate, including those governing the environment (e.g. emissions to air; discharges to water; and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste materials) and data protection and privacy. It is not possible to predict the outcome of investigations and lawsuits, and we could incur judgments, fines, or penalties or enter into settlements of lawsuits and claims that could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition in any particular period. In addition, we may not be able to maintain our insurance at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against any losses.. Income Tax - changes in our effective tax rate in various jurisdictions.. We are subject to income taxes in various jurisdictions in which we operate. Our tax liabilities are dependent upon the location of earnings among these different jurisdictions. Our provision for income taxes and cash tax liability could be adversely affected by numerous factors, including income before taxes being lower than anticipated in countries with lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries with higher statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and changes in tax laws and regulations. We are also subject to the prevailing tax laws and the continuous examination of our income tax returns by tax authorities. The results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns and continuing assessments of our tax exposures may have an adverse effect on our provision for income taxes and cash tax liability.. Personnel - our success may be affected if we are not able to attract, engage and retain qualified personnel.. Our success depends in large part on our ability to identify, recruit, engage and retain qualified and diverse personnel worldwide and successfully execute management transitions at leadership levels of the Company. Additionally, in some locations we have experienced significant wage inflation due to a shortage of labor amid low levels of unemployment in these markets. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, it may be difficult for us to compete effectively, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. 5. Liquidity - changes in the capital and credit markets may negatively affect our ability to access financing to support strategic initiatives.. Disruption of the global financial and credit markets may have an effect on our long-term liquidity and financial condition. There can be no assurance that the cost or availability of future borrowings will not be impacted by future capital market disruptions. Some of our existing borrowings contain covenants to maintain certain financial ratios that, under certain circumstances, could restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness, make investments and other restricted payments, create liens and sell assets.. Acquisitions - the execution of our acquisition strategy may not provide the desired return on investment.. We have made and continue to pursue acquisitions. These acquisitions could negatively impact our profitability due to operating and integration inefficiencies, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities and amortization of expenses related to intangible assets. There are also a number of other risks involved in acquisitions, including the potential loss of key customers, difficulties in assimilating the acquired operations, the loss of key employees and the diversion of management's time and attention away from other business matters, that may prevent us from realizing the anticipated return on our investment.. Impairment - if our operating units do not meet performance expectations, intangible assets could be subject to impairment.. Our total assets include goodwill and other intangible assets from acquisitions. We review annually whether goodwill and other intangible assets have been impaired, or more frequently if there have been unexpected events or changes in circumstances. If future operating performance at one or more of our operating units were to fall significantly below forecast levels or if market conditions for one or more of our acquired businesses were to decline, we could be required to incur a non-cash charge to operating income for impairment. Any impairment charge would have an adverse non-cash impact on our results of operations and reduce our net worth.. Productivity Improvements - if we do not successfully manage productivity improvements, we may not realize the expected benefits.. Our financial projections assume certain ongoing productivity improvements as a key component of our business strategy to, among other things, contain operating expenses, increase operating efficiencies and align manufacturing capacity to demand. We may not be able to realize the expected benefits and cost savings if we do not successfully execute these plans while continuing to invest in business growth. If difficulties are encountered or such cost savings are otherwise not realized, it could adversely impact our results of operations.. Business Disruption - unexpected events, including natural disasters, may increase our cost of doing business or disrupt our operations.. The occurrence of one or more unexpected events, including a terrorist attack, war or civil unrest, a weather event, an earthquake, pandemic or other catastrophe in the U.S. or in other countries in which we operate or in which our suppliers are located could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. Such event could result in physical damage to and complete or partial closure of one or more of our headquarters, manufacturing facilities or distribution centers, temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of component products from some local and international suppliers, disruption in the transport of our products to customers and disruption of information systems. This could result in a prolonged disruption to our operations. Existing insurance coverage may not provide protection for all costs that may arise from such events. Any disruption in our manufacturing capacity could have an adverse impact on our ability to meet our customer needs or may require us to incur additional expenses in order to produce sufficient inventory, and therefore, may adversely affect our net sales and operating results.. Internal Controls - if we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results and prevent material fraud, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock.. Effective internal control over financial reporting, including controls within the information technology environment, is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent and detect material fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent or detect material fraud, our operating results could be misstated. There can be no assurances that we will be able to prevent future control deficiencies from occurring, which could cause us to incur unforeseen costs, negatively impact our results of operations, cause the market price of our common stock to decline or have other potential adverse consequences."
