[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. Risk Factors. Risks Relating to Us and Our Business. Donegal Mutual is our controlling stockholder. Donegal Mutual and its directors and executive officers have potential conflicts of interest between the best interests of our stockholders and the best interests of the policyholders of Donegal Mutual.. Donegal Mutual controls the election of all of the members of our board of directors. Six of the eleven members of our board of directors are also directors of Donegal Mutual. Donegal Mutual and we share the same executive officers. These common directors and executive officers have a fiduciary duty to our stockholders and also have a fiduciary duty to the policyholders of Donegal Mutual. Among the potential conflicts of interest that could arise from these separate fiduciary duties are the following:. <U+0095>   We and Donegal Mutual periodically review the percentage participation of Atlantic States and Donegal Mutual in the underwriting pool that Donegal Mutual and Atlantic States have maintained since 1986;. <U+0095>   Our insurance subsidiaries and Donegal Mutual annually review and then establish the terms of certain reinsurance agreements between our insurance subsidiaries and Donegal Mutual. Our objective, over the long-term, is for these agreements to have approximately an equal balance between payments and recoveries;. <U+0095>   We and Donegal Mutual periodically allocate certain shared expenses among ourselves and our insurance subsidiaries in accordance with various inter-company expense-sharing agreements; and. <U+0095>   We and our insurance subsidiaries may enter into other transactions or contractual relationships with Donegal Mutual, including, for example, our purchases from time to time from Donegal Mutual of the surplus note of a mutual insurance company that will subsequently convert into a stock insurance company and ultimately become one of our wholly owned subsidiaries.. -24-. Table of Contents. Donegal Mutual has sufficient voting power to determine the outcome of all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval.. Each share of our Class A common stock has one-tenth of a vote per share and generally votes as a single class with our Class B common stock. Each share of our Class B common stock has one vote per share and generally votes as a single class with our Class A common stock. Donegal Mutual has the right to vote approximately 72% of the combined voting power of our Class A common stock and our Class B common stock and has sufficient voting control to:. <U+0095>   elect all of the members of our board of directors, who determine our management and policies; and. <U+0095>   control the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to a vote of our stockholders for approval, including mergers or other acquisition proposals and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, in each case regardless of how all of our stockholders other than Donegal Mutual vote their shares.. The interests of Donegal Mutual in maintaining this greater-than-majority voting control of us may have an adverse effect on the price of our Class A common stock and the price of our Class B common stock because of the absence of any potential \"takeover\" premium and may, therefore, be inconsistent with the interests of our stockholders other than Donegal Mutual.. Donegal Mutual's majority voting control of us, certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and certain provisions of Delaware law make it remote that anyone could acquire actual control of us unless Donegal Mutual were in favor of another person's acquisition of control of us.. Donegal Mutual's majority voting control of us, certain anti-takeover provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and certain provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or the DGCL, could delay or prevent the removal of members of our board of directors and could make a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us more expensive as well as unlikely to succeed, even if such events were in the best interests of our stockholders other than Donegal Mutual. These factors could also discourage a third party from attempting to acquire control of us. In particular, our certificate of incorporation and by-laws include the following anti-takeover provisions:. <U+0095>   our board of directors is classified into three classes, so that our stockholders elect only one-third of the members of our board of directors each year;. <U+0095>   our stockholders may remove our directors only for cause;. <U+0095>   our stockholders may not take stockholder action except at an annual or special meeting of our stockholders;. <U+0095>   the request of stockholders holding at least 20% of the combined voting power of our Class A common stock and our Class B common stock is required for a stockholder to call a special meeting of our stockholders;. <U+0095>   our by-laws require that stockholders provide advance notice to us to nominate candidates for election to our board of directors or to propose any other item of stockholder business at a stockholders' meeting;. <U+0095>   we do not permit cumulative voting rights in the election of our directors;. <U+0095>   our certificate of incorporation does not provide for preemptive rights in connection with any issuance of securities by us; and. <U+0095>   our board of directors may issue, without stockholder approval unless otherwise required by law, preferred stock with such terms as our board of directors may determine.. We have authorized preferred stock that we could issue without stockholder approval to make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us.. We have 2.0 million authorized shares of preferred stock that we could issue in one or more series without further stockholder approval, unless the DGCL or the rules of the NASDAQ Global Select Market otherwise require, and upon such terms and conditions, and having such rights, privileges and preferences, as our board of directors may determine. Our potential issuance of preferred stock may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us.. -25-. Table of Contents. Because we are an insurance holding company, no person can acquire or seek to acquire a 10% or greater interest in us without first obtaining approval of the insurance commissioners of the states of domicile of each of our insurance subsidiaries.. We own insurance subsidiaries domiciled in the states of Iowa, Maryland, Michigan, Pennsylvania, Virginia and Wisconsin, and Donegal Mutual owns or controls insurance companies domiciled in Georgia and New Mexico. The insurance laws of each of these states provide that no person can acquire or seek to acquire a 10% or greater interest in us without first filing specified information with the insurance commissioners of those states and obtaining the prior approval of the proposed acquisition of a 10% or greater interest in us by each of the state insurance commissioners based on statutory standards designed to protect the safety and soundness of us and our insurance subsidiaries.. Because we are a grandfathered unitary savings and loan holding company, no person can acquire or seek to acquire more than a 10% interest in either class of our common stock without first obtaining approval of, or an exemption from, the FRB.. We own 48.2% of the outstanding stock of DFSC, which owns all of the outstanding stock of UCB. As a result of our ownership interest in DFSC, we are a grandfathered unitary savings and loan holding company regulated by the FRB under HOLA. No person may lawfully acquire more than 10% of any class of voting security of a unitary savings and loan holding company registered under the Exchange Act, as we are, without first filing specified information with the FRB and obtaining the FRB's prior approval of the proposed acquisition or an exemption from the FRB for such acquisition.. Our insurance subsidiaries currently conduct business in a limited number of states, with a concentration of business in Pennsylvania, Michigan, Maryland and Virginia. Any single catastrophe occurrence or other condition affecting losses in these states could adversely affect the results of operations of our insurance subsidiaries.. Our insurance subsidiaries conduct business in 22 states located primarily in the Mid-Atlantic, Midwestern, New England and Southern states. A substantial portion of their business consists of private passenger and commercial automobile, homeowners and workers' compensation insurance in Pennsylvania, Michigan, Maryland and Virginia. While our insurance subsidiaries and Donegal Mutual actively manage their respective exposure to catastrophes through their underwriting processes and the purchase of reinsurance, a single catastrophic occurrence, destructive weather pattern, general economic trend, terrorist attack, regulatory development or other condition affecting one or more of the states in which our insurance subsidiaries conduct substantial business could materially adversely affect their business, financial condition and results of operations. Common catastrophic events include hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes, wind and hail storms, fires, explosions and severe winter storms.. If the independent agents who market the products of our insurance subsidiaries do not maintain their current levels of premium writing with us, fail to comply with established underwriting guidelines of our insurance subsidiaries or otherwise inappropriately market the products of our insurance subsidiaries, the business, financial condition and results of operations of our insurance subsidiaries could be adversely affected.. Our insurance subsidiaries market their insurance products solely through a network of approximately 2,400 independent insurance agencies. This agency distribution system is one of the most important components of the competitive profile of our insurance subsidiaries. As a result, our insurance subsidiaries depend to a material extent upon their independent agents, each of whom has the authority to bind one or more of our insurance subsidiaries to insurance coverage. To the extent that such independent agents' marketing efforts fail to result in the maintenance of their current levels of volume and quality or they bind our insurance subsidiaries to unacceptable insurance risks, fail to comply with the established underwriting guidelines of our insurance subsidiaries or otherwise inappropriately market the products of our insurance subsidiaries, the business, financial condition and results of operations of our insurance subsidiaries could suffer.. The business of our insurance subsidiaries may not continue to grow and may be materially adversely affected if our insurance subsidiaries cannot retain existing, and attract new, independent agents or if insurance consumers increase their use of insurance marketing systems other than independent agents.. Our insurance subsidiaries' ability to retain existing, and to attract new, independent agents is essential to the continued growth of the business of our insurance subsidiaries. If independent agents find it easier to do business with the competitors of our insurance subsidiaries, our insurance subsidiaries could find it difficult to retain their existing business or to attract new business. While our insurance subsidiaries believe they maintain good relationships with the independent agents they have appointed, our insurance subsidiaries cannot be certain that these independent agents will continue to sell the products of our. -26-. Table of Contents. insurance subsidiaries to the consumers these independent agents represent. Some of the factors that could adversely affect the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to retain existing, and attract new, independent agents include:. <U+0095>   the significant competition among insurance companies to attract independent agents;. <U+0095>   the labor-intensive and time-consuming process of selecting new independent agents;. <U+0095>   the insistence of our insurance subsidiaries that independent agents adhere to consistent underwriting standards; and. <U+0095>   the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay competitive and attractive commissions, bonuses and other incentives to independent agents.. While our insurance subsidiaries sell insurance to policyholders solely through their network of independent agencies, many competitors of our insurance subsidiaries sell insurance through a variety of delivery methods, including independent agencies, captive agencies, the Internet and direct sales. To the extent that current and potential policyholders change their marketing system preference, the business, financial condition and results of operations of our insurance subsidiaries may be adversely affected.. We are dependent on dividends from our insurance subsidiaries for the payment of our operating expenses, our debt service and dividends to our stockholders; however, there are regulatory restrictions and business considerations that may limit the amount of dividends our insurance subsidiaries may pay to us.. As a holding company, we rely primarily on dividends from our insurance subsidiaries as a source of funds to meet our corporate obligations and to pay dividends to our stockholders. The amount of dividends our insurance subsidiaries can pay to us is subject to regulatory restrictions and depends on the amount of surplus our insurance subsidiaries maintain. From time to time, the NAIC and various state insurance regulators consider modifying the method of determining the amount of dividends that an insurance company may pay without prior regulatory approval. The maximum amount of ordinary dividends that our insurance subsidiaries can pay to us in 2018 without prior regulatory approval is approximately $37.0 million. Other business and regulatory considerations, such as the impact of dividends on surplus that could affect the ratings of our insurance subsidiaries, competitive conditions, RBC requirements, the investment results of our insurance subsidiaries and the amount of premiums that our insurance subsidiaries write could also adversely impact the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to us.. If A.M. Best downgrades the rating it has assigned to Donegal Mutual or any of our insurance subsidiaries, it would adversely affect their competitive position.. Industry ratings are a factor in establishing and maintaining the competitive position of insurance companies. A.M. Best, an industry-accepted source of insurance company financial strength ratings, rates Donegal Mutual and our insurance subsidiaries. A.M. Best ratings provide an independent opinion of an insurance company's financial health and its ability to meet its obligations to its policyholders. We believe that the financial strength rating of A.M. Best is material to the operations of Donegal Mutual and our insurance subsidiaries. Currently, Donegal Mutual and our insurance subsidiaries each have an A (Excellent) rating from A.M. Best. If A.M. Best were to downgrade the rating of Donegal Mutual or any of our insurance subsidiaries, it would adversely affect the competitive position of Donegal Mutual or that insurance subsidiary and make it more difficult for it to market its products and retain its existing policyholders.. Our strategy to grow in part through acquisitions of smaller insurance companies exposes us to risks that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. The affiliation with, and acquisition of, smaller, and often undercapitalized, insurance companies involves risks that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The risks associated with these affiliations and acquisitions include:. <U+0095>   the potential inadequacy of reserves for losses and loss expenses of the other insurer;. <U+0095>   the need to supplement management of the other insurer with additional experienced personnel;. <U+0095>   conditions imposed by regulatory agencies that make the realization of cost-savings through integration of the operations of the other insurer with our operations more difficult;. -27-. Table of Contents. <U+0095>   the need of the other insurer for additional capital that we did not anticipate at the time of the acquisition or affiliation; and. <U+0095>   the use of more of our management's time in improving the operations of the other insurer than we originally anticipated.. If we cannot obtain sufficient capital to fund the organic growth of our insurance subsidiaries and to make acquisitions, we may not be able to expand our business.. Our strategy is to expand our business through the organic growth of our insurance subsidiaries and through our strategic acquisitions of regional insurance companies. Our insurance subsidiaries will require additional capital in the future to support this strategy. If we cannot obtain sufficient capital on satisfactory terms and conditions, we may not be able to expand the business of our insurance subsidiaries or to make future acquisitions. Our ability to obtain additional financing will depend on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. For example, we may not be able to obtain additional debt or equity financing because we or our insurance subsidiaries may already have substantial debt at the time, because we or our insurance subsidiaries do not have sufficient cash flow to service or repay our existing or additional debt or because financial institutions are not making financing available. In addition, any equity capital we obtain in the future could be dilutive to our existing stockholders.. A number of the competitors of our insurance subsidiaries have greater financial strength than our insurance subsidiaries, and these competitors may be able to offer their products at lower prices than our insurance subsidiaries can afford to offer their products.. The property and casualty insurance industry is intensely competitive. Competition can be based on many factors, including:. <U+0095>   the perceived financial strength of the insurer;. <U+0095>   premium rates;. <U+0095>   policy terms and conditions;. <U+0095>   policyholder service;. <U+0095>   reputation; and. <U+0095>   experience.. Our insurance subsidiaries compete with many regional and national property and casualty insurance companies, including direct sellers of insurance products, insurers having their own agency organizations and other insurers represented by independent agents. Many of these insurers have greater capital than our insurance subsidiaries, have substantially greater financial, technical and operating resources and have equal or higher ratings from A.M. Best than our insurance subsidiaries. In addition, our competitors may become increasingly better capitalized in the future as the property and casualty insurance industry continues to consolidate.. The greater capitalization of many of the competitors of our insurance subsidiaries enables them to operate with lower profit margins and, therefore, allows them to market their products more aggressively, to take advantage more quickly of new marketing opportunities and to offer lower premium rates. Our insurance subsidiaries may not be able to maintain their current competitive position in the markets in which they operate if their competitors offer prices for their products that are lower than the prices our insurance subsidiaries are prepared to offer. Moreover, if these competitors lower the price of their products and our insurance subsidiaries meet their pricing, the profit margins and revenues of our insurance subsidiaries may decrease and their ratios of claims and expenses to premiums may increase. All of these factors could materially adversely affect the financial condition and results of operations of our insurance subsidiaries and their A.M. Best ratings.. -28-. Table of Contents. Because the investment portfolios of our insurance subsidiaries consist primarily of fixed-income securities, their investment income and the fair value of their investment portfolios could decrease as a result of a number of factors.. Our insurance subsidiaries invest the premiums they receive from their policyholders and maintain investment portfolios that consist primarily of fixed-income securities. The management of these investment portfolios is an important component of the profitability of our insurance subsidiaries. Our insurance subsidiaries derive a significant portion of their operating income from the income they receive on their invested assets. A number of factors may affect the quality and/or yield of their investment portfolios, including the general economic and business environment, government monetary policy, changes in the credit quality of the issuers of the fixed-income securities our insurance subsidiaries own, changes in market conditions and regulatory changes. The fixed-income securities our insurance subsidiaries own consist primarily of securities issued by domestic entities that are backed either by the credit or collateral of the underlying issuer. Factors such as an economic downturn, disruption in the credit market or the availability of credit, a regulatory change pertaining to a particular issuer's industry, a significant deterioration in the cash flows of the issuer or a change in the issuer's marketplace may adversely affect the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to collect principal and interest from the issuer in which they invest.. The investments of our insurance subsidiaries are also subject to risk resulting from interest rate fluctuations. Increasing interest rates or a widening in the spread between interest rates available on U.S. Treasury securities and corporate debt or asset-backed securities, for example, will typically have an adverse impact on the market values of fixed-rate securities. If interest rates remain at historically low levels, our insurance subsidiaries will generally have a lower overall rate of return on investments of cash their operations generate. In addition, in the event of the call or maturity of investments in a low interest rate environment, our insurance subsidiaries may not be able to reinvest the proceeds in securities with comparable interest rates. Changes in interest rates may reduce both the profitability and the return on the invested capital of our insurance subsidiaries.. We and our insurance subsidiaries depend on key personnel. The loss of any member of our executive management or the senior management of our insurance subsidiaries could negatively affect the continuation of our business strategies and achievement of our growth objectives.. The loss of, or failure to attract, key personnel could significantly impede our financial plans, growth, marketing and other objectives and those of our insurance subsidiaries. The continued success of our insurance subsidiaries depends to a substantial extent on the ability and experience of their senior management. Our insurance subsidiaries and we believe that our future success is dependent on our ability to attract and retain additional skilled and qualified personnel and to expand, train and manage our employees. We and Donegal Mutual have two to five-year automatically-renewing employment agreements with our senior officers, including all of our named executive officers.. The reinsurance agreements on which our insurance subsidiaries rely do not relieve our insurance subsidiaries from their primary liability to their policyholders, and our insurance subsidiaries face a risk of non-payment from their reinsurers as well as the non-availability of reinsurance in the future.. Our insurance subsidiaries rely on reinsurance agreements to limit their maximum net loss from large single catastrophic risks or excess of loss risks in areas where our insurance subsidiaries may have a concentration of policyholders. Reinsurance also enables our insurance subsidiaries to increase their capacity to write insurance because it has the effect of leveraging the surplus of our insurance subsidiaries. Although the reinsurance our insurance subsidiaries maintain provides that the reinsurer is liable to them for any reinsured losses, the reinsurance agreements do not generally relieve our insurance subsidiaries from their primary liability to their policyholders if the reinsurer fails to pay the reinsurance claims of our insurance subsidiaries. To the extent that a reinsurer is unable to pay losses for which it is liable to our insurance subsidiaries, our insurance subsidiaries remain liable for such losses. At December 31, 2017, our insurance subsidiaries had approximately $119.4 million of reinsurance receivables from third-party reinsurers relating to paid and unpaid losses. Any insolvency or inability of these reinsurers to make timely payments to our insurance subsidiaries under the terms of their reinsurance agreements would adversely affect the results of operations of our insurance subsidiaries.. Michigan law requires MICO to provide unlimited lifetime medical benefits under the personal injury protection, or PIP, coverage of the personal automobile and commercial automobile policies it writes in the State of Michigan. Michigan law also requires MICO to be a member of the Michigan Catastrophic Claims Association, or MCCA, in order to write automobile insurance. The MCCA receives funding through assessments that its members collect from policyholders in the state and provides reinsurance for PIP claims that exceed a set retention. At December 31, 2017, MICO had approximately $54.0 million of reinsurance receivables from MCCA relating to paid and unpaid losses. The MCCA has generated significant operating deficits in recent years. Although we currently consider the risk to be remote, should the MCCA be unable to fulfill its payment obligations to MICO in the future, MICO's financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. -29-. Table of Contents. In addition, our insurance subsidiaries face a risk of the non-availability of reinsurance or an increase in reinsurance costs that could adversely affect their ability to write business or their results of operations. Market conditions beyond the control of our insurance subsidiaries, such as the amount of surplus in the reinsurance market and the frequency and severity of natural and man-made catastrophes, affect both the availability and the cost of the reinsurance our insurance subsidiaries purchase. If our insurance subsidiaries cannot maintain their current level of reinsurance or purchase new reinsurance protection in amounts that our insurance subsidiaries consider sufficient, our insurance subsidiaries would either have to accept an increase in their net risk retention or reduce their insurance writings, either of which could adversely affect them.. Our equity investment in DFSC subjects us to certain risks inherent to community banking organizations.. Our equity in the earnings of DFSC primarily reflects the underlying results of operations of UCB. UCB is subject to a number of risks, which include, but are not limited to, the following:. <U+0095>   variations in interest rates that may negatively affect UCB's financial performance;. <U+0095>   inherent risks associated with UCB's lending activities;. <U+0095>   a significant decline in general economic conditions in the specific markets in which UCB operates;. <U+0095>   the potential adverse impact of extensive federal and state regulation and supervision of banking organizations;. <U+0095>   potential declines in the value of UCB's investments that are considered other than temporary;. <U+0095>   competition for loans and deposits with numerous regional and national banks and other financial institutions; and. <U+0095>   UCB's ability to attract and retain qualified key personnel.. The growth and profitability of our insurance subsidiaries depend, in part, on the effective maintenance and ongoing development of Donegal Mutual's information technology systems.. Our insurance subsidiaries utilize Donegal Mutual's information technology systems to conduct their insurance business, including policy quoting and issuance, claims processing, processing of incoming premium payments and other important functions. As a result, the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to grow their business and conduct profitable operations depends on Donegal Mutual's ability to maintain its existing information technology systems and to develop new technology systems that will support the business of Donegal Mutual and our insurance subsidiaries in a cost-efficient manner and provide information technology capabilities equivalent to those of our competitors. The allocation among our insurance subsidiaries and Donegal Mutual of the costs of developing and maintaining Donegal Mutual's information technology systems may impact adversely our insurance subsidiaries' expense ratio and underwriting profitability, and such costs may exceed Donegal Mutual's and our expectations. In addition, while Donegal Mutual is committed to developing and maintaining information technology systems that will allow Donegal Mutual and our insurance subsidiaries to compete effectively, Donegal Mutual may encounter difficulties integrating new systems with legacy systems, including plans to modernize certain key infrastructure systems over the next several years. Donegal Mutual's information technology systems may not deliver the benefits Donegal Mutual and we expect and may fail to keep pace with our competitors' information technology systems. As a result, Donegal Mutual and our insurance subsidiaries may not have the ability to grow their business and meet their profitability objectives.. Our insurance subsidiaries rely on Donegal Mutual's information technology systems, and the disruption or failure of these systems or the compromise of the security of those systems that results in the theft or misuse of confidential information could materially impact adversely the business of Donegal Mutual and our insurance subsidiaries.. Our insurance subsidiaries' business operations depend significantly upon the availability and successful operation of Donegal Mutual's information technology systems in order to process new and renewal business, service their policies, process and settle claims and facilitate processing of premium payments. In addition, in the normal course of their operations, Donegal Mutual and our insurance subsidiaries collect, utilize and maintain confidential information regarding individuals and businesses. While Donegal Mutual has established various security measures to protect its information technology systems and confidential data, unanticipated computer viruses, malware, power outages, unauthorized access or other cyberattacks could disrupt those systems or result in the misappropriation or loss of confidential data. Donegal Mutual could experience technology system failures or other outages that would impact the availability of its information technology systems. Disruption in the availability of Donegal Mutual's information technology systems could impact the ability of Donegal Mutual and our insurance subsidiaries to underwrite and process their policies timely, process and settle claims promptly and provide expected levels of customer service to agents and policyholders.. -30-. Table of Contents. While Donegal Mutual has identified threats to the security of its information technology systems, Donegal Mutual and we are unaware of any significant breach of the security measures Donegal Mutual maintains. A significant breach of the security of Donegal Mutual's information technology systems that results in the misappropriation or misuse of confidential information could damage the business reputation of Donegal Mutual and our insurance subsidiaries and could expose Donegal Mutual and our insurance subsidiaries to litigation. The financial impact to Donegal Mutual, us and our insurance subsidiaries of a significant breach could be material.. Risks Relating to the Property and Casualty Insurance Industry. Industry trends, such as increased litigation against the insurance industry and individual insurers, the willingness of courts to expand covered causes of loss, rising jury awards, escalating medical costs, increasing loss frequency due to distracted driving and other factors, increasing loss severity and adverse weather conditions may contribute to increased costs and result in the deterioration of the reserves of our insurance subsidiaries.. Loss severity in the property and casualty insurance industry has increased in recent years, principally driven by larger court judgments and increasing medical and automobile repair costs. The industry has also experienced increases in the frequency of automobile losses due to distracted driving, increases in miles driven due to lower fuel costs and other factors. In addition, many classes of complainants have brought legal actions and proceedings that tend to increase the size of judgments. The propensity of policyholders and third-party claimants to litigate and the willingness of courts to expand causes of loss and the size of awards to eliminate exclusions and to increase coverage limits may make the loss reserves of our insurance subsidiaries inadequate for current and future losses.. Loss or significant restriction of the use of credit scoring in the pricing and underwriting of the personal lines insurance products by our insurance subsidiaries could adversely affect their future profitability.. Our insurance subsidiaries use credit scoring as a factor in making risk selection and pricing decisions for personal lines insurance products where allowed by state law. Recently, some consumer groups and regulators have questioned whether the use of credit scoring unfairly discriminates against people with low incomes, minority groups and the elderly. These consumer groups and regulators often call for the prohibition or restriction on the use of credit scoring in underwriting and pricing. Laws or regulations enacted in a number of states that significantly curtail the use of credit scoring in the underwriting process could reduce the future profitability of our insurance subsidiaries.. Changes in applicable insurance laws or regulations or changes in the way insurance regulators administer those laws or regulations could adversely affect the operating environment of our insurance subsidiaries and increase their exposure to loss or put them at a competitive disadvantage.. Property and casualty insurers are subject to extensive supervision in their domiciliary states and in the states in which they do business. This regulatory oversight includes matters relating to:. <U+0095>   licensing and examination;. <U+0095>   approval of premium rates;. <U+0095>   market conduct;. <U+0095>   policy forms;. <U+0095>   limitations on the nature and amount of certain investments;. <U+0095>   claims practices;. <U+0095>   mandated participation in involuntary markets and guaranty funds;. <U+0095>   reserve adequacy;. <U+0095>   insurer solvency;. -31-. Table of Contents. <U+0095>   transactions between affiliates;. <U+0095>   the amount of dividends that insurers may pay; and. <U+0095>   restrictions on underwriting standards.. Such regulation and supervision are primarily for the benefit and protection of policyholders rather than stockholders. For instance, our insurance subsidiaries are subject to involuntary participation in specified markets in various states in which they operate and the premium rates our insurance subsidiaries may charge do not always correspond with the underlying costs of providing that coverage.. The NAIC and state insurance regulators are re-examining existing laws and regulations, specifically focusing on:. <U+0095>   insurance company investments;. <U+0095>   issues relating to the solvency of insurance companies;. <U+0095>   risk-based capital guidelines;. <U+0095>   restrictions on the terms and conditions included in insurance policies;. <U+0095>   certain methods of accounting;. <U+0095>   reserves for unearned premiums, losses and other purposes;. <U+0095>   the values at which insurance companies may carry investment securities and the definition of other-than-temporary impairment of investment securities; and. <U+0095>   interpretations of existing laws and the development of new laws.. Changes in state laws and regulations, as well as changes in the way state regulators view related-party transactions in particular, could change the operating environment of our insurance subsidiaries and have an adverse effect on their business. The state insurance regulatory framework has recently come under increased federal scrutiny. Congress is considering proposals that it should create an optional federal charter for insurers. Federal chartering has the potential to create an uneven playing field for insurers by subjecting federally-chartered and state-chartered insurers to different regulatory requirements. Federal chartering also raises the possibility of duplicative or conflicting federal and state requirements. In addition, if federal legislation repeals the partial exemption for the insurance industry from federal antitrust laws, our ability to collect and share loss cost data with the industry could adversely affect the results of operations of our insurance subsidiaries.. Insurance companies are subject to assessments, based on their market share in a given line of business, to assist in the payment of unpaid claims and related costs of insolvent insurance companies. Such assessments could adversely affect the financial condition of our insurance subsidiaries.. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to assessments pursuant to the guaranty fund laws of the various states in which they conduct business. Generally, under these laws, our insurance subsidiaries can be assessed, depending upon the market share of our insurance subsidiaries in a given line of insurance business, to assist in the payment of unpaid claims and related costs of insolvent insurance companies in those states. We cannot predict the number and magnitude of future insurance company failures in the states in which our insurance subsidiaries conduct business, but future assessments could adversely affect the business, financial condition and results of operations of our insurance subsidiaries.. Our insurance subsidiaries must establish premium rates and loss and loss expense reserves from forecasts of the ultimate costs they expect will arise from risks underwritten during the policy period, and the profitability of our insurance subsidiaries could be adversely affected if their premium rates or reserves are insufficient to satisfy their ultimate costs.. One of the distinguishing features of the property and casualty insurance industry is that it prices its products before it knows its costs, since insurers generally establish their premium rates before they know the amount of losses they will incur. Accordingly, our insurance subsidiaries establish premium rates from forecasts of the ultimate costs they expect to arise from risks they have underwritten during the policy period. These premium rates may not be sufficient to cover the ultimate losses. -32-. Table of Contents. our insurance subsidiaries incur. Further, our insurance subsidiaries must establish reserves for losses and loss expenses as balance sheet liabilities based upon estimates involving actuarial and statistical projections at a given time of what our insurance subsidiaries expect their ultimate liability to be. Significant periods of time often elapse between the occurrence of an insured loss and the reporting of the loss and the payment of that loss. It is possible that our insurance subsidiaries' ultimate liability could exceed these estimates because of the future development of known losses, the existence of losses that have occurred but are currently unreported and larger than historical settlements of pending and unreported claims. The process of estimating reserves is inherently judgmental and can be influenced by a number of factors, including the following:. <U+0095>   trends in claim frequency and severity;. <U+0095>   changes in operations;. <U+0095>   emerging economic and social trends;. <U+0095>   inflation; and. <U+0095>   changes in the regulatory and litigation environments.. If our insurance subsidiaries have insufficient premium rates or reserves, insurance regulatory authorities may require increases to these reserves. An increase in reserves results in an increase in losses and a reduction in net income for the period in which our insurance subsidiaries recognize a deficiency in reserves. Accordingly, an increase in reserves may adversely impact the business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations of our insurance subsidiaries.. The financial results of our insurance subsidiaries depend primarily on their ability to underwrite risks effectively and to charge adequate rates to policyholders.. The financial condition, cash flows and results of operations of our insurance subsidiaries depend on their ability to underwrite and set rates accurately for a full spectrum of risks across a number of lines of insurance. Rate adequacy is necessary to generate sufficient premium to pay losses, loss adjustment expenses and underwriting expenses and to realize a profit.. The ability to underwrite and set rates effectively is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including:. <U+0095>   the availability of sufficient, reliable data;. <U+0095>   the ability to conduct a complete and accurate analysis of available data;. <U+0095>   the ability to recognize in a timely manner changes in trends and to project both the severity and frequency of losses with reasonable accuracy;. <U+0095>   uncertainties generally inherent in estimates and assumptions;. <U+0095>   the ability to project changes in certain operating expense levels with reasonable certainty;. <U+0095>   the development, selection and application of appropriate rating formulae or other pricing methodologies;. <U+0095>   the use of modeling tools to assist with correctly and consistently achieving the intended results in underwriting and pricing;. <U+0095>   the ability to innovate with new pricing strategies and the success of those innovations on implementation;. <U+0095>   the ability to secure regulatory approval of premium rates on an adequate and timely basis;. <U+0095>   the ability to predict policyholder retention accurately;. <U+0095>   unanticipated court decisions, legislation or regulatory action;. <U+0095>   unanticipated changes in our claim settlement practices;. -33-. Table of Contents. <U+0095>   changes in driving patterns for auto exposures;. <U+0095>   changes in weather patterns for property exposures;. <U+0095>   changes in the medical sector of the economy;. <U+0095>   unanticipated changes in auto repair costs, auto parts prices and used car prices;. <U+0095>   the impact of emerging technologies, including the advent of autonomous vehicles, on pricing, insurance coverages and loss costs;. <U+0095>   the impact of inflation and other factors on the cost of construction materials and labor;. <U+0095>   the ability to monitor property concentration in catastrophe-prone areas, such as hurricane, earthquake and wind/hail regions; and. <U+0095>   the general state of the economy in the states in which our insurance subsidiaries operate.. Such risks may result in the premium rates of our insurance subsidiaries being based on inadequate or inaccurate data or inappropriate assumptions or methodologies and may cause our estimates of future changes in the frequency or severity of claims to be incorrect. As a result, our insurance subsidiaries could underprice risks, which would negatively affect our margins, or our insurance subsidiaries could overprice risks, which could reduce their volume and competitiveness. In either event, underpricing or overpricing risks could adversely impact our operating results, financial condition and cash flows.. The cyclical nature of the property and casualty insurance industry may reduce the revenues and profit margins of our insurance subsidiaries.. The property and casualty insurance industry is highly cyclical with respect to both individual lines of business and the overall insurance industry. Premium rate levels relate to the availability of insurance coverage, which varies according to the level of surplus available in the insurance industry. The level of surplus in the industry varies with returns on invested capital and regulatory barriers to withdrawal of surplus. Increases in surplus may result in increased price competition among property and casualty insurers. If our insurance subsidiaries find it necessary to reduce premiums or limit premium increases due to these competitive pressures on pricing, our insurance subsidiaries may experience a reduction in their profit margins and revenues, an increase in their ratios of losses and expenses to premiums and, therefore, lower profitability.. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock. The price of our common stock may be adversely affected by its low trading volume.. Our Class A common stock and our Class B common stock have limited liquidity. Reported average daily trading volume for our Class A common stock and our Class B common stock for the year ended December 31, 2017 was approximately 32,196 shares and approximately 177 shares, respectively. This limited liquidity could subject our shares of Class A common stock and our shares of Class B common stock to greater price volatility.. Donegal Mutual's majority voting control of our stock, anti-takeover provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and certain state laws make it unlikely anyone could acquire control of us unless Donegal Mutual were in favor of the acquisition of control.. Donegal Mutual's ownership of our Class A common stock and Class B common stock, certain anti-takeover provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, certain provisions of Delaware law and the insurance laws and regulations of Iowa, Georgia, Maryland, Michigan, New Mexico, Pennsylvania, Virginia and Wisconsin could delay or prevent the removal of members of our board of directors and could make it more difficult for a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us to succeed, even if our stockholders other than Donegal Mutual believed any of such events would be beneficial to them. These factors could also discourage a third party from attempting to acquire control of us. The classification of our board of directors could also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our control.. In addition, we have 2,000,000 authorized shares of preferred stock that we could issue in one or more series without stockholder approval, to the extent applicable law permits, and upon such terms and conditions, and having such rights, privileges and preferences, as our board of directors may determine. Our ability to issue preferred stock could make it difficult for a third party to acquire us. We have no current plans to issue any preferred stock.. -34-. Table of Contents. Moreover, the DGCL contains provisions that prohibit certain business combination transactions under certain circumstances. In addition, state insurance laws and regulations generally prohibit any person from acquiring, or seeking to acquire, a 10% or greater interest in an insurance company without the prior approval of the state insurance commissioner of the state of domicile of the insurer. Because of our indirect control of UCB, HOLA also prohibits the acquisition of a 10% or greater interest in either our Class A common stock or our Class B common stock without the prior approval of the FRB or the granting of an exemption by the FRB."
