[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially affect our business, financial conditions or results of operations. The risks are listed below in no particular order.. We May Lose Business to Competitors.. Competition within the automotive aftermarket parts business is intense.  We compete in North America with both original equipment parts manufacturers and with companies that, like us, supply parts only to the automotive aftermarket. We also face competition from automobile manufacturers who sell through their dealerships many of the same replacement parts that we sell.  Our customers may also be successful in sourcing some of our products directly from suppliers.  We expect such competition to continue.  If we are unable to compete successfully in our industry, we could lose customers.. 8. Unfavorable Economic Conditions May Adversely Affect Our Business.. Adverse changes in economic conditions, including inflation, recession, or instability in the financial markets or credit markets may either lower demand for our products or increase our operational costs, or both.  Such conditions may also materially impact our customers, suppliers and other parties with whom we do business.  Our revenue will be adversely affected if demand for our products declines. The impact of unfavorable economic conditions may also impair the ability of our customers to pay for products they have purchased. As a result, reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivables may increase and failure to collect a significant portion of amounts due on those receivables could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. The Loss or Decrease in Sales Among One of Our Top Customers Could Have a Substantial Negative Impact on Our Sales and Operating Results.. A significant percentage of our sales has been, and is expected to be, concentrated among a relatively small number of customers. During fiscal 2017, fiscal 2016 and fiscal 2015, four customers (Advance, AutoZone, NAPA and O'Reilly) each accounted for more than 10% of net sales and in the aggregate accounted for approximately 61% of net sales in fiscal 2017, and 60% in each of fiscal 2016 and fiscal 2015. We anticipate that this concentration of sales among these customers will continue in the future. The loss of a significant customer or a substantial decrease in sales to such a customer could have a material adverse effect on our sales and operating results.. Customer Consolidation in the Automotive Aftermarket May Lead to Customer Contract Terms Less Favorable to Us Which May Negatively Impact Our Financial Results.. The automotive aftermarket has been consolidating over the past several years. By way of example, in January 2014, Advance Auto Parts acquired General Parts International, Inc. (Carquest), one of the largest automotive parts distributors. As a result of such consolidations, many of our customers have grown larger and therefore have more leverage in the arms-length negotiations of agreements with us for the sale of our products. Customers may require us to provide extended payment terms and returns of slow moving product in order to obtain new, or retain existing, business. While we attempt to avoid or minimize such concessions, in some cases payment terms to customers have been extended and returns of product have exceeded historical levels. The product returns primarily affect our profit levels while payment terms extensions generally reduce operating cash flow and require additional capital to finance our business. We expect both of these trends to continue for the foreseeable future.. Our Business May be Negatively Impacted By Foreign Currency Fluctuations and Our Dependence on Foreign Suppliers.. In fiscal 2017, approximately 71% of our products were purchased from auppliers in a variety of foreign countries. The products generally are purchased through purchase orders with the purchase price specified in U.S. Dollars. Accordingly, we generally do not have exposure to fluctuations in the relationship between the U.S. Dollar and various foreign currencies between the time of execution of the purchase order and payment for the product. To the extent that the U.S. Dollar decreases in value relative to foreign currencies in the future, the price of the product in U.S. Dollars for new purchase orders may increase.. The largest portion of our overseas purchases is from China. However, the products generally are purchased through purchase orders with the purchase price specified in U.S. dollars. The Chinese Yuan to U.S. Dollar exchange rate has fluctuated over the past several years. Any future change in the value of the Chinese Yuan relative to the U.S. Dollar may impact the cost of products that we purchase from China.. As a result of the magnitude of our foreign sourcing, our business may be subject to various risks, including the following:. •  uncertainty caused by the elimination of import quotas and the possible imposition of additional quotas or antidumping or countervailing duties or other retaliatory or punitive trade measures;. •  imposition of duties, taxes and other charges on imports;. •  significant devaluation of the dollar against foreign currencies;. •  restrictions on the transfer of funds to or from foreign countries;. 9. •  political instability, military conflict or terrorism involving the United States or any of the countries where our products are manufactured or sold, which could cause a delay in transportation or an increase in costs of transportation, raw materials or finished product or otherwise disrupt our business operations; and. •  disease, epidemics and health-related concerns could result in closed factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials and scrutiny and embargoing of goods produced in infected areas.. If these risks limit or prevent us from acquiring products from foreign suppliers or significantly increase the cost of our products, our operations could be seriously disrupted until alternative suppliers are found, which could negatively impact our business.. Additionally, we recently acquired a business based in Montreal, Canada, whose operations are conducted in both U.S. Dollar and Canadian Dollar currencies.  Since our consolidated financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars, amounts of assets, liabilities, net sales, and other revenues and expenses denominated in local currencies must be translated into U.S. dollars using exchange rates for the current period.  As a result, foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations in those rates could adversely impact our financial performance.. We Extend Credit to Our Customers Who May Be Unable to Pay In the Future.. We regularly extend credit to our customers.   A significant percentage of our accounts receivable have been, and expected to continue to be concentrated among a relatively small number of automotive retailers and automotive parts distributors in the United States. Our five largest customers accounted for 85% of total accounts receivable as of December 30, 2017 and 87% of total accounts receivable as of December 31, 2016. Management continually monitors the credit terms and credit limits of these and other customers. If any of these customers were unable to pay, our business and financial condition would be adversely affected.. The Loss of a Key Supplier Could Lead to Increased Costs and Lower Profit Margins.. The majority of the products we sell are purchased from a number of foreign suppliers.   If any of our key suppliers fail to meet our needs, it may not be possible to replace such supplier without a disruption in our operations. Furthermore, replacement of a key supplier is often at higher prices.. Limited Shelf Space May Adversely Affect Our Ability to Expand Our Product Offerings.. Since the amount of space available to a retailer and other purchasers of our products is limited, our products compete with other automotive aftermarket products, some of which are entirely dissimilar and otherwise non-competitive (such as car waxes and engine oil), for shelf and floor space. No assurance can be given that additional space will be available in our customers' stores to support any expansion of the number of products that we offer.. If We Do Not Continue to Develop New Products and Bring Them to Market, Our Business, Financial Condition and Results of Operations Could Be Materially Impacted.. The development and production of new products is often accompanied by design and production delays and related costs typically associated with the development and production of new products. While we expect and plan for such delays and related costs, we cannot predict with precision the time and expense required to overcome these initial problems so that the products comply with specifications.  There is a risk that we may not be able to introduce or bring to full-scale production new products as quickly as we expected in our product introduction plans, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We May Be Adversely Affected By Changes in Automotive Technology and Improvements in the Quality of New Vehicle Parts.. Our business and financial condition may be adversely impacted by changes in automotive technologies, such as vehicles powered by fuel cells or electricity. These factors could result in less demand for our products thereby causing a decline in our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. 10. In addition, improvements in quality by original equipment manufacturers could adversely affect our business. Generally, if original equipment parts last longer, there could be less demand for our products.. Claims of Intellectual Property Infringement by Original Equipment Manufacturers Could Adversely Affect Our Business and Negatively Impact Our Ability to Develop New Products.. From time to time in the past we have been subject to claims that we are infringing the intellectual property of others.  We currently are the subject of such claims and it is possible that others will assert infringement claims against us in the future.  An adverse finding against us in these or similar intellectual property disputes may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations if we are not able to successfully develop or license non-infringing alternatives.  In addition, an unfavorable ruling in intellectual property litigation could subject us to significant liability, increased legal expense, and require us to cease developing or selling the affected products or using the affected works of authorship or trademarks.  Any significant restriction that impedes our ability to develop and commercialize our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Quality Problems with Our Products Could Damage Our Reputation and Adversely Affect Our Business.. We have experienced, and in the future may experience, reliability, quality, or compatibility problems in products after their production and sale to customers.  Product quality problems could result in damage to our reputation, loss of customers, a decrease in revenue, litigation, unexpected expenses, and a loss of market share. We have invested and will continue to invest in our engineering, design, and quality infrastructure in an effort to reduce these problems; however, there can be no assurance that we can successfully remedy all of these issues.  To the extent we experience significant quality problems in the future, our business and results of operations may be negatively impacted.. Loss of Third-Party Transportation Providers Upon Whom We Depend or Increases in Fuel Prices Could Increase Our Costs or Cause a Disruption in Our Operations.. We depend upon third-party transportation providers for delivery of our products to us and to our customers. Strikes, slowdowns, transportation disruptions or other conditions in the transportation industry, including, but not limited to, shortages of truck drivers, disruptions in rail service, port congestion, or increases in fuel prices, could increase our costs and disrupt our operations and our ability to service our customers on a timely basis.. Unfavorable Results of Legal Proceedings Could Materially Adversely Affect Us.. We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims that have arisen out of the ordinary course of our business which are not yet resolved and additional claims may arise in the future.  Although we currently believe that resolving all of these matters, individually or in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse impact on our financial position, legal claims and proceedings are subject to inherent uncertainty and our view on these matters may change in the future.  Regardless of merit, litigation may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and cause significant expense and diversion of management attention.  Should we fail to prevail in certain matters, we may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that would materially adversely affect our business and financial condition and operating results.. Dorman's Executive Chairman and His Family Members Own a Significant Portion of the Company.. As of January 1, 2018, Steven L. Berman, our Executive Chairman, and his family members beneficially own approximately 20% of the Company's outstanding common stock.  As such, Mr. Berman and his family members can influence matters requiring approval of shareholders, including the election of the Board of Directors and the approval of significant transactions.  Such concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control of the Company, could deprive shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of the Company and might ultimately affect the market price of our common stock.. 11. Our Operations, Revenues and Operating Results, and the Operations of Our Third Party Manufacturers, Suppliers and Customers, may be Subject to Quarter to Quarter Fluctuations and Disruptions from Events Beyond Our or Their Control.. Our operations, revenues and operating results, as well as the operations of our third party manufacturers, suppliers and customers, may be subject to quarter to quarter fluctuations and disruptions from a variety of causes outside of our or their control, including work stoppages, market volatility, fuel prices, acts of war, terrorism, cyber incidents, pandemics, fire, earthquake, flooding, changes in weather patterns, weather or seasonal fluctuations or other climate-based changes, including hurricanes or tornadoes, or other natural disasters. If a major disruption were to occur at our operations or the operations of our third party manufacturers, suppliers or customers, it could result in harm to people or the natural environment, delays in shipments of products to customers or suspension of operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues and operating results.. We rely extensively on our computer systems to manage inventory, process transactions and timely provide products to our customers. Our systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches or other catastrophic events. If our systems are damaged or fail to function properly, we may experience loss of critical data and interruptions or delays in our ability to manage inventories or process customer transactions. Such a disruption of our systems could negatively impact revenue and potentially have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Regulations Related to Conflict Minerals Could Adversely Impact Our Business.. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (\"Dodd-Frank\") contains provisions to improve transparency and accountability concerning the supply of certain minerals, known as \"conflict minerals\", originating from the Democratic Republic of Congo (\"DRC\") and adjoining countries. These rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply, and pricing of materials used in our products, as the number of suppliers who provide conflict-free minerals may be limited. We may also suffer reputational harm if we determine that certain of our products contain minerals not determined to be conflict-free or if we are unable to modify our products to avoid the use of such materials.  We may also face challenges in satisfying customers who may require that our products be certified as containing conflict-free minerals.. Cyber-attacks or Other Breaches of Information Technology Security Could Adversely Impact Our Business and Operations.. Cyber-attacks or other breaches of network or information technology security may cause equipment failure or disruption to our operations.  Such attacks, which include the use of malware, computer viruses and other means for disruption or unauthorized access, on companies have increased in frequency, scope and potential harm in recent years.  While, to the best of our knowledge, we have not been subject to cyber-attacks or to other cyber incidents which, individually or in the aggregate, have been material to our operations or financial conditions, the preventive actions we take to reduce the risk of cyber incidents and protect our information technology and networks may be insufficient to repel a major cyber-attack in the future.  To the extent that any disruption or security breach results in a loss or damage to our data or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, it could cause significant damage to our reputation, affect our relationship with our customers, suppliers and employees, and lead to claims against us and ultimately harm our business.  Additionally, we may be required to incur significant costs to protect against damage caused by these disruptions or security breaches in the future.. Imposition of New Taxes or Customs Duties on Our Products Could Adversely Affect Our Business.. In fiscal 2017, approximately 71% of our products were purchased from suppliers in a variety of foreign countries. Due to economic and political conditions, tax and duty rates on imported goods may be subject to significant change. The imposition or proposed imposition of new or increased taxes or duties on our products could increase the cost of our products or reduce overall consumption of our products, or both, particularly if tax or duty levels increased substantially relative to those for products manufactured in the United States. The imposition of new taxes on our products or any substantial increase in duty rates on our products could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 12. We are Exposed To Risks Related to Accounts Receivable Sales Agreements.. We have entered into several customer sponsored programs administered by unrelated financial institutions that permit us to sell certain accounts receivable at discounted rates to the financial institutions. The termination of these agreements could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and operating cash flow. Additionally, the interest rates of these agreements are tied to LIBOR. Increases in LIBOR could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and operating cash flows.. The Market Price of Our Common Stock May Be Volatile and Could Expose Us to Securities Class Action Litigation.. The stock market and the price of our common stock may be subject to wide fluctuations based upon general economic and market conditions. The market price for our common stock may also be affected by our ability to meet analysts' expectations. Failure to meet such expectations, even slightly, could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, stock market volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. Downturns in the stock market may cause the price of our common stock to decline.. Following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against such companies. If similar litigation were instituted against us, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources, which could have an adverse effect on our business.. Losing the Services of Our Executive Officers or Other Highly Qualified and Experienced Contributors Could Adversely Affect Our Business.. Our future success depends upon the continued contributions of our executive officers and senior management, many of whom have numerous years of experience and would be extremely difficult to replace.  We must also attract and maintain experienced and highly skilled engineering, sales and marketing, finance, logistics, and operations personnel.  Competition for qualified personnel is often intense, and we may not be successful in hiring and retaining these people.  If we lose the services of these key contributors or cannot attract and retain other qualified personnel, our business could be adversely affected.. Our growth may be impacted by acquisitions. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions or integrate acquisitions successfully.. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions, or integrate acquisitions successfully. Our future growth is likely to depend to some degree on our ability to acquire and successfully integrate new businesses. We may seek additional acquisition opportunities, both to further diversify our businesses and to penetrate or expand important product offerings or markets. There are no assurances, however, that we will be able to successfully identify suitable candidates, negotiate appropriate terms, obtain financing on acceptable terms, complete proposed acquisitions, successfully integrate acquired businesses, or expand into new markets. Once acquired, operations may not achieve anticipated levels of revenues or profitability.  Acquisitions involve risks, including difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies and the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns. Although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in any particular transaction, there are no assurances that we will properly ascertain all such risks. Difficulties encountered with acquisitions may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations."
