[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following risk factors are what we believe to be the most significant risk factors that could adversely affect our business and operations, including, without limitation, our financial condition, REIT status, results of operations and cash flows, our ability to service our debt and pay dividends to our stockholders, our ability to capitalize on business opportunities as they arise, our ability to raise capital, and the market price of our common stock.  This is not an exhaustive list, and additional risk factors could adversely affect our business and financial performance.  We operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment and new risk factors emerge from time to time. It is therefore not possible for us to predict all such risk factors, nor can we assess the impact of all such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements.  This discussion of risk factors includes many forward-looking statements.  For cautions about relying on forward-looking statements see \"Forward Looking Statements\" at the beginning of this Report.. Risks Related to Our Properties and Our Business. All of our properties are located in Los Angeles County, California and Honolulu, Hawaii, and we are therefore exposed to greater risk than if we owned a more geographically diverse portfolio.  Our properties in Los Angeles County are concentrated in certain submarkets, exposing us to risks associated with those specific areas.. Because of the geographic concentration of our properties, we are susceptible to adverse economic and regulatory developments, as well as natural disasters, in the markets and submarkets where we operate, including, for example, economic slowdowns, industry slowdowns, business downsizing, business relocations, increases in real estate and other taxes, changes in regulation, earthquakes, floods, droughts and wildfires.  California is also regarded as being more litigious, regulated and taxed than many other states.. Our operating performance is subject to risks associated with the real estate industry.. Real estate investments are subject to various risks, fluctuations and cycles in value and demand, many of which are beyond our control.  These events include, but are not limited to:. • adverse changes in international, national or local economic conditions;. • inability to rent space on favorable terms, including possible market pressures to offer tenants rent abatements, tenant improvements, early termination rights or below-market renewal options;. • adverse changes in financial conditions of actual or potential investors, buyers, sellers or tenants;. • inability to collect rent from tenants;. • competition from other real estate investors, including other real estate operating companies, publicly-traded REITs and institutional investment funds;. • reduced tenant demand for office space and residential units from matters such as (i) changes in space utilization, (ii) changes in the relative popularity of our properties, (iii) the type of space we provide or (iv) purchasing versus leasing;. • reduced demand for parking space due to the impact of technology such as self driving cars;. • increases in the supply of office space and residential units;. 11. Table of Contents. • fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of credit, which could adversely affect our ability to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all;. • increases in expenses (or our reduced ability to recover expenses from our tenants), including insurance costs, labor costs (such as the unionization of our employees or the employees of any parties with whom we contract for services to our buildings), energy prices, real estate assessments and other taxes, as well as costs of compliance with laws, regulations and governmental policies;. • utility disruptions;. • the effects of rent controls, stabilization laws and other laws or covenants regulating rental rates;. • changes in, and changes in enforcement of, laws, regulations and governmental policies, including, without limitation, health, safety, environmental, zoning and tax laws, governmental fiscal policies and the ADA;. • legislative uncertainty related to federal and state spending and tax policy;. • difficulty in operating properties effectively;. • acquiring undesirable properties; and. • inability to dispose of properties at appropriate times or at favorable prices.. We have a substantial amount of debt, which exposes us to interest rate fluctuation risk and the risk of not being able to refinance our debt, which in turn could expose us to the risk of default under our debt obligations.. We have a substantial amount of debt and we may incur significant additional debt for various purposes, including, without limitation, to fund future property acquisitions and development activities, reposition properties and to fund our operations.  See Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements in Item 15 of this Report for more detail regarding our consolidated debt.  See \"Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements\" in Item 7 of this Report for more detail regarding our unconsolidated debt.. Our substantial indebtedness, and the limitations and other constraints imposed on us by our debt agreements, especially during economic downturns when credit is harder to obtain, could adversely affect us, including the following:. • our cash flows may be insufficient to meet our required principal and interest payments;. • servicing our borrowings may leave us with insufficient cash to operate our properties or to pay the distributions necessary to maintain our REIT qualification;. • we may be unable to borrow additional funds as needed or on favorable terms, which could, among other things, adversely affect our ability to capitalize upon acquisition opportunities;. • we may be unable to refinance our indebtedness at maturity or the refinancing terms may be less favorable than the terms of our existing indebtedness;. • we may be forced to dispose of one or more of our properties, possibly on disadvantageous terms;. • we may violate any restrictive covenants in our loan documents, which could entitle the lenders to accelerate our debt obligations;. • we may be unable to hedge floating rate debt, counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under our hedge agreements, the hedge agreements may not effectively hedge the interest rate fluctuation risk, and, upon the expiration of any hedge agreements we do have, we will be exposed to the then-existing market rates of interest and future interest rate volatility with respect to debt that is currently hedged; we could also be declared in default on our hedge agreements if we default on the underlying debt that we are hedging;. • we may default on our obligations and the lenders or mortgagees may foreclose on our properties that secure their loans and receive an assignment of rents and leases;. • our default under any of our indebtedness with cross default provisions could result in a default on other indebtedness; and. • any foreclosure on our properties could also create taxable income without accompanying cash proceeds, which could adversely affect our ability to meet the REIT distribution requirements imposed by the Code.. 12. Table of Contents. The rents we receive from new leases may be less than our asking rents, and we may experience rent roll-down from time to time.. As a result of various factors, such as competitive pricing pressure in our submarkets, adverse conditions in the Los Angeles County or Honolulu real estate market, general economic downturns, or the desirability of our properties compared to other properties in our submarkets, the rents we receive on new leases could be less than our in-place rents.. In order to successfully compete against other properties, we must spend money to maintain, repair, and renovate our properties, which reduces our cash flows.. If our properties are not as attractive to current and prospective tenants in terms of rent, services, condition, or location as properties owned by our competitors, we could lose tenants or suffer lower rental rates.  As a result, we may from time to time be required to incur significant capital expenditures to maintain the competitiveness of our properties.  There can be no assurances that any such expenditures would result in higher occupancy or rental rates, or deter existing tenants from relocating to properties owned by our competitors.. We face intense competition, which could adversely impact the occupancy and rental rates of our properties.. We compete with a number of developers, owners and operators of office and multifamily real estate, many of which own properties similar to ours in the same markets in which our properties are located.  If our competitors offer space at rental rates below current market rates, or below the rental rates that we currently charge our tenants, or if they offer tenants significant rent or other concessions, we may lose existing or potential tenants and may not be able to replace them, and we may be pressured to reduce our rental rates below those we currently charge or offer more substantial rent abatements, tenant improvements, early termination rights or below-market renewal options in order to retain tenants when our tenants' leases expire.. Potential losses, including from adverse weather conditions, natural disasters and title claims, may not be covered by insurance.. Our business operations in Los Angeles County, California and Honolulu, Hawaii are susceptible to, and could be significantly affected by, adverse weather conditions and natural disasters such as earthquakes, tsunamis, hurricanes, volcanoes, drought, wind, floods, landslides and fires.  The likelihood of such disasters may be increased as a result of climate changes.  Adverse weather conditions and natural disasters could cause significant damage to our properties or to the economies of the regions in which they are located, the risk of which is enhanced by the concentration of our properties' locations.  Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover business interruption or losses resulting from adverse weather or natural disasters.  In addition, our insurance policies include substantial self-insurance portions and significant deductibles and co-payments for such events, and we are subject to the availability of insurance in the US and the pricing thereof.  As a result, we may incur significant costs in the event of adverse weather conditions and natural disasters.. Most of our properties are located in Southern California, an area subject to an increased risk of earthquakes. While we presently carry earthquake insurance on our properties, the amount of our earthquake insurance coverage may not be sufficient to fully cover losses from earthquakes.  We may reduce or discontinue earthquake or any other insurance coverage on some or all of our properties in the future if the cost of premiums for any of these policies in our judgment exceeds the value of the coverage discounted for the risk of loss.. We do not carry insurance for certain losses, such as losses caused by certain environmental conditions, asbestos, riots or war.  In addition, our title insurance policies generally only insure the value of a property at the time of purchase, and we have not and do not intend to increase our title insurance coverage as the market value of our portfolio increases.  As a result, we may not have sufficient coverage against all losses that we may experience, including from adverse title claims.. If we experience a loss that is uninsured or which exceeds policy limits, we could incur significant costs and lose the capital invested in the damaged properties as well as the anticipated future cash flows from those properties.  If the damaged properties are encumbered, we may continue to be liable for the indebtedness, even if these properties were irreparably damaged.. If any of our properties were destroyed or damaged, then we might not be permitted to rebuild many of those properties to their existing height or size at their existing location under current zoning and land use regulations.  In the event that we experience a substantial or comprehensive loss of one of our properties, we may not be able to rebuild such property to its existing specifications and otherwise may have to upgrade such property to meet current code requirements.. 13. Table of Contents. New regulations in the submarkets in which we operate could require us to make safety improvements to our buildings, for example requiring us to retrofit our buildings to better withstand earthquakes, and we could incur significant costs complying with those regulations.. Terrorism and war could harm our business and operating results.. The possibility of future terrorist attacks or war could have a negative impact on our operations, even if they are not directed at our properties and even if they never actually occur.  Terrorist attacks can also substantially affect the availability and price of insurance coverage for certain types of damages or occurrences, and our insurance policies for terrorism include large deductibles and co-payments.  The lack of sufficient insurance for these types of acts could expose us to significant losses.. Security breaches through cyber attacks, cyber intrusions or otherwise, as well as other significant disruptions of our IT networks and related systems could harm our business.. We face risks associated with security breaches, whether through cyber attacks or cyber intrusions over the Internet, malware, computer viruses, attachments to e-mails, persons inside our organization or persons with access to systems inside our organization and other significant disruptions of our IT networks and related systems.  The risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber attack or cyber intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, has generally increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased.  Our IT networks and related systems are essential to the operation of our business and our ability to perform day-to-day operations (including managing our building systems) and, in some cases, may be critical to the operations of certain of our tenants.  Although we make efforts to maintain the security and integrity of these types of IT networks and related systems, and have implemented various measures to manage the risk of a security breach or disruption, there can be no assurance that our efforts will be effective in preventing attempted security breaches or disruptions.  Even the most well protected information, networks, systems and facilities remain potentially vulnerable because the techniques used in such attempted security breaches evolve and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, and in some cases are designed not be detected and, in fact, may not be detected.  Accordingly, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate security barriers or other preventative measures, and thus it is impossible for us to entirely mitigate this risk.  A security breach or other significant disruption involving our IT networks and related systems could have an adverse effect on our business, for example:. • Disruption to our networks and systems and thus our operations and/or those of our tenants or vendors;. • Misstated financial reports, violations of loan covenants, missed reporting deadlines and missed permitting deadlines;. • Inability to comply with laws and regulations;. • Unauthorized access to, destruction, loss, theft, misappropriation or release of proprietary, confidential, sensitive or otherwise valuable information of ours or others, which others could be used to compete against us or for disruptive, destructive or otherwise harmful purposes;. • Rendering us unable to maintain the building systems relied upon by our tenants;. • The requirement of significant management attention and resources to remedy any damages that result;. • Claims for breach of contract, damages, credits, penalties or termination of leases or other agreements; and. • Damage to our reputation among our tenants, investors, or others.. We may be unable to renew leases or lease vacant space.. We may be unable to renew our tenants' leases, in which case we must find new tenants.  To attract new tenants or retain existing tenants, particularly in periods of recession, we may have to accept rental rates below our existing rental rates or offer substantial rent abatements, tenant improvements, early termination rights or below-market renewal options.  Accordingly, portions of our office and multifamily properties may remain vacant for extended periods of time.  In addition, some existing leases currently provide tenants with options to renew the terms of their leases at rates that are below the current market rates or to terminate their leases prior to the expiration date thereof.  We actively pursue opportunities for what we believe to be well-located and high quality buildings that may be in a transitional phase due to current or impending vacancies.  We cannot assure that any such vacancies will be filled following a property acquisition, or that new tenant leases will be executed at or above market rates.  As of December 31, 2017, 8.6% of the square footage in our total office portfolio was available for lease and 10.1% was scheduled to expire in 2018.  As of December 31, 2017, 1.2% of the units in our multifamily portfolio were available for lease, and substantially all of the leases in our multifamily portfolio must be renewed within the next year.  For more information see Item 2 \"Properties\" of this Report.. 14. Table of Contents. Our business strategy for our office portfolio focuses on leasing to smaller-sized tenants which may present greater credit risks.. Our business strategy for our office portfolio focuses on leasing to smaller-sized tenants, which may present greater credit risks because they are more susceptible to economic downturns than larger tenants, and may be more likely to cancel or not renew their leases.. Real estate investments are generally illiquid.. Our real estate investments are relatively difficult to sell quickly.  Return of capital and realization of gains, if any, from an investment will generally occur upon disposition or refinancing of the underlying property.  We may not be able to realize our investment objectives by sale or be able to refinance at attractive prices within any given period of time.  We may also not be able to complete any exit strategy.  Any number of factors could increase these risks, such as (i) weak market conditions, (ii) the lack of an established market for a property, (iii) changes in the financial condition or prospects of prospective buyers, (iv) changes in local, national or international economic conditions, and (v) changes in laws, regulations or fiscal policies.  Furthermore, certain properties may be adversely affected by contractual rights, such as rights of first offer or ground leases.. We may incur significant costs complying with laws, regulations and covenants that are applicable to our properties.. The properties in our portfolio are subject to various covenants, federal, state and local laws, ordinances, regulatory requirements, including permitting and licensing requirements, various environmental laws, the ADA and rent control laws.  Such laws and regulations, including municipal or local ordinances, zoning restrictions and restrictive covenants imposed by community developers may restrict our use of our properties and may require us to obtain approval from local officials or community standards organizations at any time with respect to our properties, including prior to acquiring a property or when undertaking renovations of any of our existing properties.  Among other things, these restrictions may relate to fire and safety, seismic, asbestos-cleanup or hazardous material abatement requirements.  There can be no assurance that existing laws and regulations will not adversely affect us or the timing or cost of any future acquisitions, developments or renovations, or that additional regulations that increase such delays or result in additional costs will not be adopted.  Under the ADA, our properties must meet federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons to the extent that such properties are \"public accommodations\".  The costs of our on-going efforts to comply with these laws and regulations are substantial.  Moreover, as we have not conducted a comprehensive audit or investigation of all of our properties to determine our compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we may be liable for investigation and remediation costs, penalties, and/or damages, which could be substantial and could adversely affect our ability to sell or rent our property or to borrow using such property as collateral.. Because we own real property, we are subject to extensive environmental regulations, which creates uncertainty regarding future environmental expenditures and liabilities.. Environmental laws regulate, and impose liability for, releases of hazardous or toxic substances into the environment. Under various provisions of these laws, an owner or operator of real estate may be liable for costs related to soil or groundwater contamination on, in, or migrating to or from its property.  Persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances may be liable for the costs of cleaning up contamination at the disposal site.  Such laws often impose liability regardless of whether the person knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances that caused the contamination.  The presence of, or contamination resulting from, any of these substances, or the failure to properly remediate them, may adversely affect our ability to sell or rent our property or to borrow using the property as collateral.  Persons exposed to hazardous or toxic substances may sue for personal injury damages, for example, some laws impose liability for release of or exposure to asbestos-containing materials, a substance known to be present in a number of our buildings.  In other cases, some of our properties have been (or may have been) impacted by contamination from past operations or from off-site sources.  As a result, in connection with our current or former ownership, operation, management and development of real properties, we may be potentially liable for investigation and cleanup costs, penalties, and damages under environmental laws.. Although most of our properties have been subjected to preliminary environmental assessments, known as Phase I assessments, by independent environmental consultants that identify certain liabilities, Phase I assessments are limited in scope, and may not include or identify all potential environmental liabilities or risks associated with the property.  Unless required by applicable laws or regulations, we may not further investigate, remedy or ameliorate the liabilities disclosed in the Phase I assessments.  We cannot assure that these or other environmental studies identified all potential environmental liabilities, or that we will not incur material environmental liabilities in the future.  If we do incur material environmental liabilities in the future, we may face significant remediation costs and may find it difficult to sell any affected properties.  See Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements in Item 15 of this Report for more detail regarding our buildings that contain asbestos.. 15. Table of Contents. Rent control or rent stabilization legislation and other regulatory restrictions may limit our ability to increase rents and pass through new or increased operating costs to our tenants.. We presently expect to continue operating and acquiring properties in areas that have adopted laws and regulations imposing restrictions on the timing or amount of rent increases or have imposed regulations relating to low- and moderate-income housing.  Currently, neither California nor Hawaii have state mandated rent control, but various municipalities within Southern California, including the cities of Los Angeles and Santa Monica where our properties are located, have enacted rent control legislation. Additionally, portions of the Honolulu multifamily market are subject to low- and moderate-income housing regulations and all but one of the properties in our Los Angeles County multifamily portfolio are affected by these laws and regulations.  Under current California law we are able to increase rents to market rates once a tenant vacates a rent-controlled unit, however increases in rental rates for renewing tenants are limited by Los Angeles and Santa Monica rent control regulations.  We have agreed to rent specified percentages of the units at some of  our Honolulu multifamily properties to persons with income below specified levels in exchange for certain tax benefits.  These laws and regulations can (i) limit our ability to charge market rents, increase rents, evict tenants or recover increases in our operating expenses, (ii) negatively impact our ability to attract higher-paying tenants, (iii) require us to incur costs for reporting and compliance, and (iv) make it more difficult for us to dispose of properties in certain circumstances. Any failure to comply with these regulations could result in fines, penalties and/or the loss of certain tax benefits and the forfeiture of rents.. We may be unable to complete acquisitions that would grow our business, or successfully integrate and operate acquired properties.. Our planned growth strategy includes the disciplined acquisition of properties as opportunities arise.  Our ability to acquire properties on favorable terms and to successfully integrate and operate them is subject to significant risks, including the following:. • we may be unable to acquire desired properties because of competition from other real estate investors, including other real estate operating companies, publicly-traded REITs and investment funds;. • competition from other potential acquirers may significantly increase the purchase price of a desired property;. • we may acquire properties that are not accretive to our results upon acquisition or we may not successfully manage and lease them up to meet our expectations;. • we may be unable to generate sufficient cash from operations, or obtain the necessary debt or equity financing to consummate an acquisition or, if obtained, the financing may not be on favorable terms;. • cash flows from the acquired properties may be insufficient to service the related debt financing;. • we may need to spend more than we budgeted to make necessary improvements or renovations to acquired properties;. • we may spend significant time and money on potential acquisitions that we do not close;. • the process of acquiring or pursuing the acquisition of a property may divert the attention of our senior management team from our existing business operations;. • we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions, particularly acquisitions of portfolios of properties, into our existing operations;. • occupancy and rental rates of acquired properties may be less than expected; and. • we may acquire properties without recourse, or with limited recourse, for liabilities, whether known or unknown, such as clean-up of environmental contamination, claims by tenants, vendors or other persons against the former owners of the properties and claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties.. We may be unable to successfully expand our operations into new markets and submarkets.. If the opportunity arises, we may explore acquisitions of properties in new markets.  The risks applicable to our ability to acquire, integrate and operate properties in our current markets is also applicable to our ability to acquire, integrate and operate properties in new markets.  In addition to these risks, we will not possess the same level of familiarity with the dynamics and market conditions of any new markets that we may enter, which could adversely affect our ability to expand into those markets.  We may be unable to build a significant market share or achieve a desired return on our investments in new markets.. 16. Table of Contents. We are exposed to risks associated with property development.. We engage in development and redevelopment activities with respect to certain of our properties.  To the extent that we do so, we are subject to certain risks, including the following:. • We may not complete a development or redevelopment project on schedule or within budgeted amounts (as a result of risks beyond our control, such as weather, labor conditions, material shortages and price increases);. • We may be unable to lease the developed or redeveloped properties at budgeted rental rates or lease up the property within budgeted time frames;. • We may devote time and expend funds on development or redevelopment of properties that we may not complete;. • We may encounter delays or refusals in obtaining all necessary zoning, land use, and other required entitlements, and building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations;. • We may encounter delays, refusals and unforeseen cost increases resulting from third-party litigation or objections;. • We may fail to obtain the financial results expected from properties we develop or redevelop; and. • We have developed and redeveloped properties in the past, however only in a limited manner in recent years, which could adversely affect our ability to develop or redevelop properties or to achieve our expected returns.. We are exposed to certain risks when we enter into JVs or issue securities of our subsidiaries, including our Operating Partnership.. We have and may in the future develop or acquire properties with, or raise capital from, third parties through partnerships, JVs or other entities, or through acquiring or disposing of non-controlling interests in, or sharing responsibility for managing the affairs of, a property, partnership, JV or other entity.  This may subject us to risks that may not be present with other methods of ownership, including for example the following:. • We may not be able to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding the properties, partnership, JV or other entity, which would allow for impasses on decisions that could restrict our ability to sell or transfer our interests in such entity or such entity's ability to transfer or sell its assets;. • Partners or co-venturers may default on their obligations including those related to capital contributions, debt financing or interest rate swaps, which could delay acquisition, construction or development of a property or increase our financial commitment to the partnership or JV;. • Conflicts of interests with our partners or co-venturers as result of matters such as different needs for liquidity, assessments of the market or tax objectives; ownership of competing interests in other properties; and other business interests, policies or objectives that are competitive or inconsistent with ours;. • If any such jointly owned or managed entity takes or expects to take actions that could jeopardize our status as a REIT or require us to pay tax, we may suffer significantly, including having to dispose of our interest in such entity (if that is possible) or even losing our status as a REIT;. • Our assumptions regarding the tax impact of any structure or transaction could prove to be incorrect, and we could be exposed to significant taxable income, property tax reassessments or other liabilities, including any liability to third parties that we may assume as part of such transaction or otherwise;. • Disputes between us and partners or co-venturers may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses, affect our ability to develop or operate a property and/or prevent our officers and/or directors from focusing their time and effort on our business;. • We may, in certain circumstances, be liable for the actions of our third-party partners or co-venturers; and. • We may not be able to raise capital as needed from institutional investors or sovereign wealth funds, or on terms that are favorable.. If we default on the ground lease to which one of our properties is subject, our business could be adversely affected.. Some of our properties may be subject to a ground lease.  If we default under the terms of such a lease, we may be liable for damages and could lose our ownership interest in the property.. 17. Table of Contents. We may not have sufficient cash available for distribution to stockholders at expected levels in the future.. Our distributions could exceed our cash generated from operations.  If necessary, we may fund the difference from our existing cash balances or additional borrowings.  If our available cash were to decline significantly below our taxable income, we could lose our REIT status unless we could borrow to make such distributions or make any required distributions in common stock.. Our property taxes could increase due to property tax rate changes or reassessments, which would adversely impact our cash flows.. We are required to pay property taxes for our properties, which could increase as property tax rates increase or as our properties are assessed or reassessed by taxing authorities.  In California, under current law, reassessment occurs primarily as a result of a \"change in ownership\".  A potential reassessment may take a considerable amount of time, during which the property taxing authorities make a determination of the occurrence of a \"change of ownership\", as well as the actual reassessed value.  In addition, from time to time, there have been proposals to base property taxes on commercial properties on their current market value, without any limit based on purchase price.  If any similar proposal were adopted, the property taxes we pay could increase substantially.. If a transaction intended to qualify as a Section 1031 Exchange is later determined to be taxable or if we are unable to identify and complete the acquisition of a suitable replacement property to effect a Section 1031 Exchange, we may face adverse consequences, and if the laws applicable to such transactions are amended or repealed, we may not be able to dispose of properties on a tax deferred basis.. From time to time we may dispose of properties in transactions that are intended to qualify as tax deferred exchanges under Section 1031 of the Code (Section 1031 Exchanges).  It is possible that the qualification of a transaction as a Section 1031 Exchange could be successfully challenged and determined to be currently taxable.  In such cases, our taxable income would increase as would the amount of distributions we are required to make to satisfy our REIT distribution requirements.  This could increase the dividend income to our stockholders by reducing any return of capital they receive.  In some circumstances, we may be required to pay additional dividends or, in lieu of that, corporate income tax, possibly including interest and penalties.  As a result, we may be required to borrow in order to pay additional dividends or taxes, and the payment of such taxes could cause us to have less cash available to distribute to our stockholders.  If a Section 1031 Exchange were later to be determined to be taxable, we may be required to amend our tax returns for the applicable year in question, including any reports we distributed to our stockholders.  It is possible that legislation could be enacted that could modify or repeal the laws with respect to Section 1031 Exchanges, which could make it more difficult or not possible for us to dispose of properties on a tax deferred basis.. We face risks associated with contractual counterparties being designated \"Prohibited Persons\" by the Office of Foreign Assets Control.. The OFAC of the US Department of the Treasury maintains a list of persons designated as terrorists or who are otherwise blocked or banned (\"Prohibited Persons\").  The OFAC regulations and other laws prohibit conducting business or engaging in transactions with Prohibited Persons.  Some of our agreements require us and the other party to comply with the OFAC requirements.  If a party with whom we contract is placed on the OFAC list we may be required by the OFAC regulations to terminate the agreement, which could result in a losses or a damage claim by the other party that the termination was wrongful.. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure. Tax consequences to holders of OP Units upon a sale or refinancing of our properties may cause the interests of our executive officers to differ from the interests of our stockholders.. Some of our properties were contributed to us in exchange for units of our Operating Partnership.  As a result of the unrealized built-in gain attributable to such properties at the time of their contribution, some holders of OP Units, including our executive officers, may suffer different and more adverse tax consequences than holders of our common stock upon the sale or refinancing of the properties owned by our Operating Partnership, including disproportionately greater allocations of items of taxable income and gain upon a realization event.  As a result, those holders may have different objectives regarding the appropriate pricing, timing and other material terms of any sale or refinancing of certain properties, or whether to sell or refinance such properties at all.. 18. Table of Contents. Our executive officers have significant influence over our affairs.. At December 31, 2017, our executive officers owned 5% of our outstanding common stock, but they would own 15% if they converted all of their OP Units into common stock.  As a result, our executive officers, to the extent that they vote their shares in a similar manner, will have significant influence over our affairs and could exercise such influence in a manner that is not in the best interests of our other stockholders, including by attempting to delay, defer or prevent a change of control transaction that might otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders.. Our growth depends on external sources of capital which are outside of our control.. In order to qualify as a REIT, we are required under the Code to distribute annually at least 90% of our \"REIT taxable income\", determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding any net capital gain.  To the extent that we do not distribute all of our net long-term capital gains or at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, we will be required to pay tax thereon at regular corporate tax rates.  Because of these distribution requirements, we may not be able to fund future capital needs from our operating cash flows, including acquisitions, development and debt refinancing.  Consequently, we expect to rely on third-party sources to fund some of our capital needs and we may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all.  Any additional borrowings will increase our leverage, and any additional equity that we issue will dilute our common stock.  Our access to third-party sources of capital depends on many factors, some of which include:. • general market conditions;. • the market's perception of our growth potential;. • our current debt levels;. • our current and expected future earnings;. • our cash flows and cash dividends; and. • the market price per share of our common stock.. We face risks associated with short-term liquid investments.. From time to time, we have significant cash balances that we invest in a variety of short-term money market fund investments that are intended to preserve principal value and maintain a high degree of liquidity while providing current income. These investments are not insured against loss of principal and there is no guarantee that our investments in these funds will be redeemable at par value.  If we cannot liquidate our investments or redeem them at par we could incur losses and experience liquidity issues.. Our charter, the partnership agreement of our Operating Partnership, and Maryland law contain provisions that may delay or prevent a change of control transaction.. (i) Our charter contains a five percent ownership limit.. Our charter, subject to certain exceptions, contains restrictions on ownership that limit, and authorizes our directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to limit, any person to actual or constructive ownership of not more than five percent of the value or number, whichever is more restrictive, of the outstanding shares of our common stock.  Our board of directors, in its sole discretion, may exempt a proposed transferee from the ownership limit.  The ownership limit contained in our charter may delay or prevent a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders.. (ii) Our board of directors may create and issue a class or series of preferred stock without stockholder approval.. Our board of directors is empowered under our charter to amend our charter to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares of our common stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we have authority to issue, to designate and issue from time to time one or more classes or series of preferred stock and to classify or reclassify any unissued shares of our common stock or preferred stock without stockholder approval.  Our board of directors may determine the relative rights, preferences and privileges of any class or series of preferred stock issued.  As a result, we may issue series or classes of preferred stock with preferences, dividends, powers and rights, voting or otherwise, senior to the rights of our common stock holders.  The issuance of preferred stock could also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control transaction that might otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders.. 19. Table of Contents. (iii) Certain provisions in the partnership agreement of our Operating Partnership may delay or prevent an unsolicited acquisition of us.. Provisions in our Operating Partnership agreement may delay or make more difficult unsolicited acquisitions of us or changes in our control.  These provisions could discourage third parties from making proposals involving an unsolicited acquisition of us or change of our control, although some stockholders might consider such proposals, if made, desirable.  These provisions include, among others:. • redemption rights of qualifying parties;. • transfer restrictions on our OP Units;. • the ability of the general partner in some cases to amend the partnership agreement without the consent of the limited partners; and. • the right of the limited partners to consent to transfers of the general partnership interest and mergers under specified circumstances.. Any potential change of control transaction may be further limited as a result of provisions of the partnership unit designation for certain LTIP Units, which require us to preserve the rights of LTIP unit holders and may restrict us from amending the partnership agreement for our Operating Partnership in a manner that would have an adverse effect on the rights of LTIP unit holders.. (iv) Certain provisions of Maryland law could inhibit changes in control.. Certain provisions of the MGCL may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or impeding a change of control under circumstances that otherwise could provide our stockholders with the opportunity to realize a premium over the market price of our common stock, including:. • \"business combination\" provisions that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between us and an \"interested stockholder\" (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our shares or an affiliate thereof) for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, and thereafter impose special appraisal rights and special stockholder voting requirements on these combinations; and. • \"control share\" provisions that provide that \"control shares\" of our company (defined as shares which, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the stockholder, entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a \"control share acquisition\" (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of \"control shares\") have no voting rights except to the extent approved by our stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares.. We have elected to opt out of these provisions of the MGCL, in the case of the business combination provisions of the MGCL, by resolution of our board of directors, and in the case of the control share provisions of the MGCL, pursuant to a provision in our bylaws.  However, our board of directors may by resolution elect to repeal the foregoing opt-outs from the business combination provisions of the MGCL and we may, by amendment to our bylaws, opt in to the control share provisions of the MGCL in the future.. Our charter, bylaws, our Operating Partnership agreement and Maryland law also contain other provisions that may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders.. Under their employment agreements, certain of our executive officers will receive severance if they are terminated without cause or resign for good reason.. We have employment agreements with Jordan L. Kaplan, Kenneth M. Panzer and Kevin A. Crummy, which provide each executive with severance if they are terminated without cause or resign for good reason (including following a change of control), based on two or three times (depending on the officer) his annual total of salary, bonus and incentive compensation such as LTIP Units, options or outperformance grants.  In addition, these executive officers would not be restricted from competing with us after their departure.. 20. Table of Contents. Our fiduciary duties as the sole stockholder of the general partner of our Operating Partnership could create conflicts of interest.. As the sole stockholder of the general partner of our Operating Partnership, we have fiduciary duties to the other limited partners in our Operating Partnership, the discharge of which may conflict with the interests of our stockholders.  The limited partners of our Operating Partnership have agreed that, in the event of a conflict in the fiduciary duties owed by us to our stockholders and, in our capacity as general partner of our Operating Partnership, to such limited partners, we are under no obligation to give priority to the interests of such limited partners.  The limited partners have the right to vote on certain amendments to the Operating Partnership agreement (which require approval by a majority in interest of the limited partners, including us) and individually to approve certain amendments that would adversely affect their rights.  These voting rights may be exercised in a manner that conflicts with the interests of our stockholders.  For example, we are unable to modify the rights of limited partners to receive distributions as set forth in the Operating Partnership agreement in a manner that adversely affects their rights without their consent, even though such modification might be in the best interest of our stockholders.. The loss of any of our executive officers or key senior personnel could significantly harm our business.. Our ability to maintain our competitive position is largely dependent on the skill and effort of our executive officers and key senior personnel, who have strong industry reputations, assist us in identifying acquisition and borrowing opportunities, having such opportunities brought to us, and negotiating with tenants and sellers of properties.  If we lose the services of any of our executive officers or key senior personnel our business could be adversely affected.. Our board of directors may change significant corporate policies without stockholder approval.. Our investment, financing, borrowing, dividend, operating and other policies are determined by our board of directors.  These policies may be amended or revised at any time and from time to time at the discretion of our board of directors without a vote of our stockholders.  Our board of directors may change our policies with respect to conflicts of interest provided that such changes are consistent with applicable legal requirements.. Compensation awards to our management may not be tied to or correspond with improved financial results or the market price of our common stock.. The compensation committee of our board of directors is responsible for overseeing our compensation and incentive compensation plans.  Our compensation committee has significant discretion in structuring compensation packages and may make compensation decisions based on any number of factors.  Compensation awards may not be tied to or correspond with improved financial results or the market price of our common stock.  See Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements in Item 15 of this Report for more information regarding our stock-based compensation.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results.. An effective system of internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, prevent fraud and operate successfully as a public company.  There can be no guarantee that our internal controls over financial reporting will be effective in accomplishing all control objectives all of the time.  Deficiencies, including material weaknesses, in our internal control over financial reporting that may occur in the future could result in material misstatements in our financial reporting, which could result in restatements of our financial statements.  Failure to maintain effective internal controls could cause us to not meet our reporting obligations, which could affect our ability to remain listed with the NYSE or result in SEC enforcement actions, and could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information.. Litigation could have an adverse effect on our business.. From time to time, we are party to various lawsuits, claims and other legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business.  An unfavorable resolution of litigation could adversely affect us.  Even when there is a favorable outcome, litigation may result in substantial expenses and significantly divert the attention of our management with a similar adverse effect on us.. 21. Table of Contents. New accounting pronouncements could adversely affect our operating results or the reported financial performance of our tenants.. Accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations.  Uncertainties posed by various initiatives of accounting standard-setting by the FASB and the SEC, which create and interpret applicable accounting standards for U.S. companies, may change the financial accounting and reporting standards or their interpretation and application of these standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements.  Similarly, these changes could have a material impact on our tenants' reported financial condition or results of operations, credit ratings and preferences regarding leasing real estate.  See \"New Accounting Pronouncements\" in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements in Item 15 of this Report.. Tax Risks Related to Ownership of REIT Shares. Prospective investors should consult with their tax advisors regarding the effects of recently enacted tax legislation and other legislative, regulatory and administrative developments.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"TCJA\") was signed into law.  The TCJA makes major changes to the Code, including a number of provisions of the Code that affect the taxation of REITs and their stockholders.  Among the changes made by the TCJA are permanently reducing the generally applicable corporate tax rate, generally reducing the tax rate applicable to individuals and other non-corporate taxpayers for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017 and before January 1, 2026, eliminating or modifying certain previously allowed deductions (including substantially limiting interest deductibility and, for individuals, the deduction for non-business state and local taxes), and, for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 and before January 1, 2026, providing for preferential rates of taxation through a deduction of up to 20% (subject to certain limitations) on most ordinary REIT dividends and certain trade or business income of non-corporate taxpayers.  The TCJA also imposes new limitations on the deduction of net operating losses, which may result in us having to make additional taxable distributions to our stockholders in order to comply with REIT distribution requirements or avoid taxes on retained income and gains.  The effect of the significant changes made by the TCJA are uncertain, and administrative guidance will be required in order to fully evaluate the effect of many provisions.  The effect of any technical corrections with respect to the TCJA could have an adverse effect on us or our stockholders.  Investors should consult their tax advisors regarding the implications of the TCJA on their investment in our common stock.. Our failure to qualify as a REIT would result in higher taxes and reduced cash available for dividends.. We have elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Code, commencing with our initial taxable year ended December 31, 2006.  To qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy on a continuing basis certain technical and complex income, asset, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements.  See Item 1 \"Business Overview\" of this Report for more information regarding these tests.  Our ability to satisfy these tests depends upon our analysis of and compliance with numerous factors, many of which are not subject to a precise determination and have only limited judicial and administrative interpretations, and which are not entirely within our control.  Holding most of our assets through our Operating Partnership further complicates the application of the REIT requirements and a technical or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize our REIT status.  Legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could significantly change the tax laws with respect to the requirements for qualification as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of qualification as a REIT.  Although we believe that we will continue to qualify as a REIT, we can give no assurance that we have qualified or will continue to qualify as a REIT.. If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, and certain relief provisions did not apply, we would be subject to federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates, and distributions to stockholders would not be deductible by us in computing our taxable income.  Any such corporate tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders.  Unless entitled to relief under certain Code provisions, we would also be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which we ceased to qualify as a REIT.  In addition, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, we would not be required to make distributions to stockholders, and all distributions to stockholders will be subject to tax as dividend income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings.  If we fail to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes and are able to avail ourselves of one or more of the relief provisions under the Code in order to maintain our REIT status, we would nevertheless be required to pay penalty taxes of $50,000 or more for each such failure.. 22. Table of Contents. As a result of the above factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT could impair our ability to raise capital and expand our business, substantially reduce distributions to stockholders, result in us incurring substantial indebtedness (to the extent borrowings are feasible) or liquidating substantial investments in order to pay the resulting taxes, and adversely affect the market price of our common stock.  One of our Funds, and two of our consolidated JVs, also own properties through one or more entities which are intended to qualify as REITs, and we may in the future use other structures that include REITs.  The failure of any such entities to qualify as a REIT could have a similar impact on us.. If the Operating Partnership, or any of its subsidiaries, were treated as a regular corporation for federal income tax purposes, we could cease to qualify as a REIT.. Although we believe that the Operating Partnership and other subsidiary partnerships, limited liability companies, REIT subsidiaries, QRS and other subsidiaries (other than the TRS) in which we own a direct or indirect interest will be treated for tax purposes as a partnership, disregarded entity (e.g., in the case of a 100% owned limited liability company), REIT or QRS, as applicable, no assurance can be given that the IRS will not successfully challenge the tax classification of any such entity, or that a court would not sustain such a challenge.   If the IRS were successful in treating the Operating Partnership or other subsidiaries as entities taxable as a corporation (including a \"publicly traded partnership\" taxed as a corporation) for federal income tax purposes, we would likely fail to qualify as a REIT and it would significantly reduce the amount of cash available for distribution by such subsidiaries to us.. Even if we qualify as a REIT, we will be required to pay some taxes which reduces cash available for dividends.. Even if we qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we will be required to pay certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and property.  For example, we will be subject to income tax to the extent that we distribute less than 100% of our REIT taxable income (including capital gains).  In addition, any net taxable income earned directly by our TRS,  or through entities that are disregarded for federal income tax purposes as entities separate from our TRS, will be subject to federal and possibly state corporate income tax.  We have elected to treat several subsidiaries as TRS, and we may elect to treat other subsidiaries as TRS in the future.  In this regard, several provisions of the laws applicable to REITs and their subsidiaries ensure that a TRS will be subject to an appropriate level of federal income taxation.  For example, a TRS is limited in its ability to deduct interest payments made to an affiliated REIT.  In addition, the REIT has to pay a 100% tax on some payments that it receives or on some deductions taken by its TRS if the economic arrangements between the REIT, the REIT's tenants, and the TRS are not comparable to similar arrangements between unrelated parties.  In addition, some state and local jurisdictions may tax some of our income even though as a REIT we are not subject to federal income tax on that income because not all states and localities treat REITs the same as they are treated for federal income tax purposes.  Moreover, if we have net income from \"prohibited transactions,\" that income will be subject to a 100% tax.  In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business.  Although we do not intend to hold any properties that would be characterized as held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of our business, such characterization is a factual determination and we cannot guarantee that the IRS would agree with our characterization of our properties.  To the extent that we are required to pay federal, state and local taxes, we will have less cash available for distributions to our stockholders.. REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our liquidity.. To qualify as a REIT, we generally must distribute annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, excluding any net capital gains.  To the extent that we do not distribute all of our net long-term capital gains or at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, we will be required to pay tax thereon at regular corporate tax rates.  We intend to make distributions to our stockholders to comply with the Code requirements for REITs and to minimize or eliminate our corporate income tax obligation.  Certain types of assets generate substantial mismatches between taxable income and available cash.  Such assets include rental real estate that has been financed through financing structures which require some or all of available cash flows to be used to service borrowings.  As a result, the requirement to distribute a substantial portion of our taxable income could cause us to sell assets in adverse market conditions, borrow on unfavorable terms, distribute amounts that could otherwise be used to fund our operations, capital expenditures, acquisitions or repayment of debt, or cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities.. Dividends payable by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates available for some dividends.. The maximum federal tax rate (not including the Medicare Contribution Tax on unearned income) applicable to income from \"qualified dividends\" payable to U.S. stockholders that are individuals, trusts and estates is 20%.  Dividends payable by REITs, however, generally are not eligible for the 20% rate.  However, under the TCJA, individuals, trusts, and estates generally may deduct up to 20% of ordinary REIT dividends.  Although these rules do not adversely affect the taxation of REITs or dividends payable by REITs, investors who are individuals, trusts and estates may perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends.. 23. Table of Contents. REIT stockholders can receive taxable income without cash distributions.. Under certain circumstances, REITs are permitted to pay required dividends in shares of their stock rather than in cash.  If we were to avail ourselves of that option, our stockholders could be required to pay taxes on such stock distributions without the benefit of cash distributions to pay the resulting taxes.. Legislative or other actions affecting REITs could have a negative effect on our investors or us, including our ability to maintain our qualification as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of such qualification.. Federal income tax laws are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process, the IRS and the U.S. Department of the Treasury.  Changes to the laws could adversely affect us and our investors.  New legislation, Treasury Regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could significantly and negatively affect our ability to qualify as a REIT, the federal income tax consequences of such qualification, or the federal income tax consequences of an investment in us.  Changes to laws relating to the tax treatment of other entities, or an investment in other entities, could make an investment in such other entities more attractive relative to an investment in a REIT.. Non-U.S. investors may be subject to FIRPTA, which would impose tax on certain distributions and on the sale of common stock if we are unable to qualify as a \"domestically controlled\" REIT or if our stock is not considered to be regularly traded on an established securities market.. A non-U.S. investor disposing of a U.S. real property interest, including shares of a U.S. corporation whose assets consist principally of U.S. real property interests or USRPIs is generally subject to a tax, known as FIRPTA tax, on the gain recognized on the disposition. Such FIRPTA tax does not apply, however, to the disposition of stock in a REIT if the REIT is a \"domestically controlled qualified investment entity.\"  A domestically controlled qualified investment entity includes a REIT in which, at all times during a specified testing period, less than 50% of the value of its shares is held directly or indirectly by non-U.S. holders. In the event that we do not constitute a domestically controlled qualified investment entity, a non-U.S. investor's sale of our common stock nonetheless will generally not be subject to tax under FIRPTA as a sale of a USRPI, provided that (1) the stock owned is of a class that is \"regularly traded\" as defined by applicable Treasury regulations, on an established securities market, and (2) the selling non-U.S. investor held 10% or less of our outstanding common stock at all times during a specified testing period. If we were to fail to so qualify as a domestically controlled qualified investment entity and our common stock were to fail to be \"regularly traded,\" a gain realized by a non-U.S. investor on a sale of our common stock would be subject to FIRPTA tax and applicable withholding. No assurance can be given that we will be a domestically controlled qualified investment entity. Additionally, any distributions we make to our non-U.S. stockholders that are attributable to gain from the sale of any USRPI will also generally be subject to FIRPTA tax and applicable withholdings, unless the recipient non-U.S. stockholder has not owned more than 10% of our common stock at any time during the year preceding the distribution and our common stock is treated as being \"regularly traded\"."
