[1] "ITEM 1A.   RISK FACTORS. The risk factors discussed in this section should be considered together with information included elsewhere in this Form 10-K and should not be considered the only risks to which we are exposed. In general, we are subject to the same general risks and uncertainties that impact many other industrial companies such as general economic, industry and/or market conditions and growth rates; the impact of natural disasters and their effect on global markets; possible future terrorist threats and their effect on the worldwide economy; and changes in laws or accounting rules. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business, including our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.. • Our results may be impacted by current domestic and international economic conditions and uncertainties.. Our businesses may be adversely affected by disruptions in the financial markets or declines in economic activity both domestically and internationally in those countries in which we operate. These circumstances will also impact our suppliers and customers in various ways which could have an impact on our business operations, particularly if global credit markets are not operating efficiently and effectively to support industrial commerce.. Our Energy segment is subject to risk due to the volatility of global energy prices and regulations that impact drilling and production, with overall demand for our products and services impacted by depletion rates, global economic conditions and related energy demands.. Negative changes in worldwide economic and capital market conditions are beyond our control, are highly unpredictable and can have an adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and cost of capital.. • We are subject to risks relating to our existing international operations and expansion into new geographical markets.. Approximately 44% and 42% of our revenues for 2017 and 2016, respectively, were derived outside the United States. We continue to focus on penetrating global markets as part of our overall growth strategy and expect sales from outside the United States to continue to represent a significant portion of our revenues. Our international operations and our global expansion strategy are subject to general risks related to such operations, including:. o   political, social and economic instability and disruptions;     o   government export controls, economic sanctions, embargoes or trade restrictions, including compliance with U.S. government licenses such as the U.S. Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control's General License H, violation of which could result in penalties and denial of export privileges;     o   the imposition of duties and tariffs and other trade barriers;     o   limitations on ownership and dividend of earnings;     o   transportation delays and interruptions;     o   labor unrest and current and changing regulatory environments;     o   increased compliance costs, including costs associated with disclosure requirements and related due diligence;     o   the impact of loss of a single-source manufacturing facility;     o   difficulties in staffing and managing multi-national operations;     o   limitations on our ability to enforce legal rights and remedies; and     o   access to or control of networks and confidential information due to local government controls and vulnerability of local networks to cyber risks.. If we are unable to successfully manage the risks associated with expanding our global business or adequately manage operational risks of our existing international operations, the risks could have a material adverse effect on our growth strategy involving expansion into new geographical markets, our reputation, our consolidated results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. 12. Table of Contents. • Trends in oil and natural gas prices may affect the drilling and production activity, profitability and financial stability of our customers and therefore the demand for, and profitability of, our energy products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. The oil and gas industry is cyclical in nature and experiences periodic downturns of varying length and severity. Most recently, the oil and gas industry experienced a significant downturn in 2015 and 2016. Demand for our energy products and services is sensitive to the level of drilling and production activity of, and the corresponding capital spending by, oil and natural gas companies. The level of drilling and production activity is directly affected by trends in oil and natural gas prices. Oil and gas prices and the level of drilling and production activity have been characterized by significant volatility in recent years. In particular, the prices of oil and natural gas were highly volatile in 2014 and 2015 on significant over supply and declined dramatically.. Prices for oil and natural gas are subject to large fluctuations in response to changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty, geopolitical developments and a variety of other factors that are beyond our control. Prices of oil began to recover in late 2016 but there can be no assurance that increases will continue. We expect continued volatility in both crude oil and natural gas prices, as well as in the level of drilling and production related activities. Given the long-term nature of many large-scale development projects, another future significant downturn in the oil and gas industry could result in the reduction in demand for our energy and pumps products and services, and could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. • The proposed spin-off of Wellsite may not be completed on the currently contemplated timeline or terms, or at all, and may not achieve the intended benefits.. We have previously announced in 2017 a plan to pursue a tax-free spin-off of our Wellsite business into a standalone, publicly-traded company. We expect to complete the spin-off in May of 2018, subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain customary conditions. However, unanticipated developments, including delays in obtaining tax rulings, changes in the macroeconomic environment, uncertainty of the financial markets and challenges in establishing infrastructure or processes could delay or prevent the proposed spin-off or cause the proposed spin-off to occur on terms or conditions that are less favorable and/or different than expected. Even if the transaction is completed, we may not realize some or all of the anticipated benefits from the spin-off.  We also have incurred and will continue to incur significant expenses in connection with the proposed spin-off which may exceed our current expectations.. Executing the proposed spin-off requires significant time and attention from management, which could distract them from other tasks in operating our business. Additionally, our employees may be distracted due to uncertainty about their future roles pending the completion of the spin-off. Following the proposed spin-off, the combined value of the common stock of the two publicly-traded companies may not be equal to or greater than what the value of our common stock would have been had the proposed spin-off not occurred. In addition, investor sentiment could result in excess selling causing greater volatility in our share price following the consummation of the proposed spin-off. Finally, if we fail to complete the spin-off, we may experience negative reactions from the financial markets.. • If the Wellsite spin-off, together with certain related transactions, does not qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we and our shareholders could be subject to significant tax liabilities.. A condition to the spin-off is the receipt by us of either (i) a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (the \"IRS Ruling\") together with an opinion of McDermott Will & Emery LLP, our tax counsel, substantially to the effect that, among other things, certain transactions to effect the spin-off will qualify as a tax-free reorganization for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Section 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code (the \"Code\"), and the distribution will qualify as a tax-free distribution to our shareholders under Section 355 of the Code, or (ii) an opinion of McDermott Will & Emery LLP, our tax counsel, substantially to the effect that, among other things, certain transactions to effect the spin-off will qualify as a tax-free reorganization for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Section 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code and the distribution of shares of Wellsite will qualify as a tax-free distribution to our shareholders under Section 355 of the Code. The IRS Ruling (if obtained) and the opinion of tax counsel will rely on certain facts and assumptions, and certain representations and undertakings from us and Wellsite, including those regarding the past and future conduct of certain of our businesses and other matters. If any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are incorrect or not satisfied, we and our shareholders may not be able to rely on the IRS Ruling (if obtained) or the opinion, and could be subject to significant tax liabilities. Notwithstanding the IRS Ruling (if obtained) and the opinion, the IRS could determine on audit that the distribution is taxable if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions. 13. Table of Contents. in the opinion. In addition, we and Wellsite intend for certain related transactions to qualify for tax-free treatment under U.S. federal, state and local tax law and/or foreign tax law.. If the distribution is determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we and our shareholders that are subject to U.S. federal income tax could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities. For example, if the distribution fails to qualify for tax-free treatment, we would, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, be treated as if we had sold the Wellsite common stock in a taxable sale for its fair market value, and our shareholders who are subject to U.S. federal income tax would be treated as receiving a taxable distribution in an amount equal to the fair market value of the Wellsite common stock received in the distribution. In addition, if certain related transactions fail to qualify for tax-free treatment under U.S. federal, state and local tax law and/or foreign tax law, we could incur significant tax liabilities under U.S. federal, state, local and/or foreign tax law, respectively.. • Our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations on cross-border transactions and the translation of local currency results into U.S. dollars could negatively impact our results of operations.. We conduct business through our subsidiaries in many different countries, and fluctuations in currency exchange rates could have a significant impact on our reported consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, which are presented in U.S. dollars. Cross-border transactions, both with external parties and intercompany relationships, result in increased exposure to foreign exchange effects. Accordingly, significant changes in currency exchange rates, particularly the Euro, Pound Sterling, Swiss franc, Chinese Renminbi (Yuan), Brazilian real and the Canadian dollar, could cause fluctuations in the reported results of our businesses' operations that could negatively affect our results of operations. Additionally, the strengthening of certain currencies such as the Euro and U.S. dollar potentially exposes us to competitive threats from lower cost producers in other countries. Our sales are translated into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes. The strengthening of the U.S. dollar could result in unfavorable translation effects as the results of foreign locations are translated into U.S. dollars.. • Increasing product/service and price competition by international and domestic competitors, including new entrants, and our inability to introduce new and competitive products could cause our businesses to generate lower revenue, operating profits and cash flows.. Our competitive environment is complex because of the wide diversity of the products that our businesses manufacture and the markets they serve. In general, most of our businesses compete with only a few companies. Our ability to compete effectively depends on how successfully we anticipate and respond to various competitive factors, including new products and services that may be introduced by competitors, changes in customer preferences, new business models and technologies and pricing pressures. If our businesses are unable to anticipate their competitors' development of new products and services and/or identify customer needs and preferences on a timely basis, or successfully introduce new products and services in response to such competitive factors, they could lose customers to competitors. If our businesses do not compete effectively, we may experience lower revenue, operating profits and cash flows.. • Our operating results depend in part on the timely development and commercialization, and customer acceptance, of new and enhanced products and services based on technological innovation.. The success of new and improved products and services depends on their initial and continued acceptance by our customers. Certain of our businesses sell their products and services in industries that are characterized by rapid technological changes, frequent new product introductions, changing industry standards and corresponding shifts in customer demand, which may result in unpredictable product transitions, shortened life cycles and increased importance of being first to market with new products and services.  Failure to correctly identify and predict customer needs and preferences, to deliver high quality, innovative and competitive products to the market, to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or to acquire rights to third-party technologies and to stimulate customer demand for, and convince customers to adopt, new products and services could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, we may experience difficulties or delays in the research, development, production and/or marketing of new products and services which may prevent us from recouping or realizing a return on the investments required to continue to bring new products and services to market.. 14. Table of Contents. • Our businesses and their profitability and reputation could be adversely affected by domestic and foreign governmental and public policy changes, risks associated with emerging markets, changes in statutory tax rates and unanticipated outcomes with respect to tax audits.. Our businesses' domestic and international sales and operations are subject to risks associated with changes in laws, regulations and policies (including environmental and employment regulations, data security laws, data privacy laws, export/import laws, tax policies such as export subsidy programs and research and experimentation credits, carbon emission regulations and other similar programs). Failure to comply with any of the foregoing could result in civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties as well as potential damage to our reputation. We cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with new and evolving regulatory reporting requirements and current or future laws, including environmental protection, employment, data security, data privacy and health and safety laws, will not exceed our estimates. In addition, we have invested in certain countries, including Brazil, Russia, India and China, and may in the future invest in other countries, any of which may carry high levels of currency, political, compliance, or economic risk. While these risks or the impact of these risks are difficult to predict, any one or more of them could adversely affect our businesses and reputation.. Our effective tax rate is impacted by changes in the mix among earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation allowance of deferred tax assets and changes in tax laws. The amount of income taxes and other taxes paid can be adversely impacted by changes in statutory tax rates and laws and are subject to ongoing audits by domestic and international authorities. If these audits result in assessments different from amounts estimated, then our consolidated results of operations, financial position and cash flows may be adversely affected by unfavorable tax adjustments.. • We could lose customers or generate lower revenue, operating profits and cash flows if there are significant increases in the cost of raw materials (including energy) or if we are unable to obtain raw materials.. We purchase raw materials, sub-assemblies and components for use in our manufacturing operations, which expose us to volatility in prices for certain commodities. Significant price increases for these commodities could adversely affect operating profits for certain of our businesses. While we generally attempt to mitigate the impact of increased raw material prices by hedging or passing along the increased costs to customers, there may be a time delay between the increased raw material prices and the ability to increase the prices of products, or we may be unable to increase the prices of products due to a competitor's pricing pressure or other factors. In addition, while raw materials are generally available now, the inability to obtain necessary raw materials could affect our ability to meet customer commitments and satisfy market demand for certain products. Consequently, a significant price increase in raw materials, or their unavailability, may result in a loss of customers and adversely impact our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. • Our growth and results of operations may be adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in our capital allocation and acquisition program.. We expect to continue our strategy of seeking to acquire value creating add-on businesses that broaden our existing position and global reach as well as, in the right circumstances, strategically pursue larger acquisitions that could have the potential to either complement our existing businesses or allow us to pursue a new platform. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to find suitable businesses to purchase, that we will be able to acquire such businesses on acceptable terms, or that all closing conditions will be satisfied with respect to any pending acquisition. If we are unsuccessful in our acquisition efforts, then our ability to continue to grow at rates similar to prior years could be adversely affected. In addition, we face the risk that a completed acquisition may underperform relative to expectations. We may not achieve the synergies originally anticipated, may become exposed to unexpected liabilities or may not be able to sufficiently integrate completed acquisitions into our current business and growth model. Further, if we fail to allocate our capital appropriately, in respect of either our acquisition program or organic growth in our operations, we could be overexposed in certain markets and geographies and unable to expand into adjacent products or markets. These factors could potentially have an adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. • Our operating profits and cash flows could be adversely affected if we cannot achieve projected savings and synergies.. We are continually evaluating our cost structure and seeking ways to capture synergies across our operations. For example, during the fourth quarter of 2017, we recorded rightsizing and other related costs of $56.3 million to better align our cost structure in preparation for the Wellsite separation. These rightsizing activities and our regular ongoing cost reduction. 15. Table of Contents. activities  (including in connection with the integration of acquired businesses) may reduce our available talent, assets and other resources and could slow improvements in our products and services, adversely affect our ability to respond to customers and limit our ability to increase production quickly if demand for our products increases. In addition, delays in implementing planned restructuring activities or other productivity improvements, unexpected costs or failure to meet targeted improvements may diminish the operational or financial benefits we expect to realize through our various programs. Any of the circumstances described above could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. • Our operations, businesses and products are subject to cybersecurity risks.. We depend on our own and third party information technology (\"IT\") systems, including cloud-based systems, to store and process information and support our business activities. We also use our third party IT systems to support customer business activities, such as transmitting payment information, providing mobile monitoring services, and capturing operational data. Additionally, some of our products contain computer hardware and software and offer the ability to connect to computer networks. If these technologies, systems, products or services are damaged, cease to function properly, are compromised due to employee error, user error, malfeasance, system errors, or other vulnerabilities, or are subject to cybersecurity attacks, such as those involving unauthorized access, malicious software, or other intrusions, including by criminals, nation states or insiders, our business may be adversely impacted. The impacts could include production downtimes, operational delays, and other impacts on our operations and ability to provide products and services to our customers; compromise of confidential, proprietary or otherwise protected information, including personal and customer data; destruction, corruption, or theft of data; manipulation, disruption, or improper use of these technologies, systems, products or services; financial losses from remedial actions, loss of business or potential liability; adverse media coverage;  and legal claims or legal proceedings, including regulatory investigations and actions; and damage to our reputation. While we attempt to mitigate these risks by employing a number of measures, including employee training, technical security controls, a breach response plan, maintenance of backup and protective systems, and security personnel, our systems, networks, products and services remain potentially vulnerable to known or unknown cybersecurity attacks and other threats, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. While we maintain insurance coverage that is intended to address certain aspects of cybersecurity risks, such insurance coverage may not cover all losses or all types of claims that arise.. • Unforeseen developments in contingencies such as litigation and product recalls could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. We and certain of our subsidiaries are, and from time to time may become, parties to a number of legal proceedings incidental to our businesses, including alleged injuries arising out of the use of products or exposure to hazardous substances, or claims related to patent infringement, employment matters and commercial disputes. The defense of these lawsuits may require significant expenses and divert management's attention, and we may be required to pay damages that could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, any insurance or indemnification rights that we may have may be insufficient or unavailable to protect us against potential loss exposures.. We may be exposed to product recalls and adverse public relations if our products are alleged to have defects, to cause property damage, to cause injury or illness, or if we are alleged to have violated governmental regulations. For example, during the fourth quarter of 2016, we determined there was a quality issue with a product component part in the Fluids segment and voluntarily reported this issue to the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission (\"CPSC\"). During the first quarter of 2017, we announced a voluntary recall of the product in conjunction with the CPSC. See Note 14  -  Commitments and Contingent Liabilities in the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional information. A product recall could result in substantial and unexpected expenditures, which would reduce operating profit and cash flow. In addition, a product recall may require significant management attention. Product recalls may hurt the value of our brands and lead to decreased demand for our products. Product recalls also may lead to increased scrutiny by federal, state or international regulatory agencies of our operations and increased litigation and could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. • The indemnification provisions of acquisition and disposition agreements by which we have acquired or sold companies may not fully protect us and may result in unexpected liabilities.. Certain of the acquisition agreements by which we have acquired companies require the former owners to indemnify us against certain liabilities related to the operation of those companies before we acquired them. In most of these agreements, however, the liability of the former owners is limited and certain former owners may be unable to meet. 16. Table of Contents. their indemnification responsibilities. Similarly, the purchasers of our discontinued operations may from time to time agree to indemnify us for operations of such businesses after the closing. We cannot be assured that any of these indemnification provisions will fully protect us, and as a result we may face unexpected liabilities that adversely affect our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. • Failure to attract, retain and develop personnel or to provide adequate succession plans for key management could have an adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Our growth, profitability and effectiveness in conducting our operations and executing our strategic plans depend in part on our ability to attract, retain and develop qualified personnel, align them with appropriate opportunities and maintain adequate succession plans for key management positions and support for strategic initiatives. If we are unsuccessful in these efforts, our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected and we could miss opportunities for growth and efficiencies.. • Our reputation, ability to do business and results of operations may be impaired by improper conduct by any of our employees, agents, or business partners.. While we strive to maintain high standards, we cannot provide assurance that our internal controls and compliance systems will always protect us from acts committed by our employees, agents, or business partners that would violate United States and/or non-United States laws or fail to protect our confidential information, including the laws governing payments to government officials, bribery, fraud, anti-kickback and false claims, competition, export and import compliance, money laundering and data privacy, as well as the improper use of proprietary information or social media. Any such violations of law or improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal investigations in the United States and in other jurisdictions, could lead to substantial civil or criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties and related shareholder lawsuits, could lead to increased costs of compliance and could damage our reputation, our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. • Our revenue, operating profits and cash flows could be adversely affected if our businesses are unable to protect or obtain patent and other intellectual property rights.. Our businesses own patents, trademarks, licenses and other forms of intellectual property related to their products and continuously invest in research and development that may result in innovations and general intellectual property rights. Our businesses employ various measures to develop, maintain and protect their intellectual property rights. These measures may not be effective in capturing intellectual property rights, and they may not prevent their intellectual property from being challenged, invalidated, or circumvented, particularly in countries where intellectual property rights are not highly developed or protected. Unauthorized use of our businesses' intellectual property rights could adversely impact the competitive position of our businesses and could have a negative impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. • A significant decline in the future economic outlook of our businesses and expected future cash flows could result in goodwill or intangible asset impairment charges which would negatively impact our results of operations.. We have significant goodwill and intangible assets on our consolidated balance sheet as a result of current and past acquisitions. The valuation and classification of these assets and the assignment of useful lives involve significant judgments and the use of estimates. The testing of goodwill and intangibles for impairment requires significant use of judgment and assumptions, particularly as it relates to the determination of fair market value. A decrease in the long-term economic outlook and future cash flows of our businesses could significantly impact asset values and potentially result in the impairment of intangible assets, including goodwill. Charges relating to such impairments could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations in the periods recognized.. • Our borrowing costs may be impacted by our credit ratings developed by various rating agencies.. Three major ratings agencies (Moody's, Standard and Poor's and Fitch Ratings) evaluate our credit profile on an ongoing basis and have each assigned high ratings for our short-term and long-term debt as of December 31, 2017. Although we do not anticipate a material change in our credit ratings, if our current credit ratings deteriorate, then our borrowing costs could increase, including increased fees under our five-year credit facility, and our access to future sources of liquidity may be adversely affected.. 17. Table of Contents. • If we experience work stoppages, union and works council campaigns and other labor disputes, our productivity and results of operations could be adversely impacted.. We have a number of collective bargaining units in the United States and various foreign collective labor arrangements. We are subject to potential work stoppages, union and works council campaigns and other labor disputes, any of which could adversely impact our productivity, reputation, consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows."
