[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The factors described below represent the Company's principal risks.. DowDuPont may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the Merger. Combining the businesses of DuPont and Dow may be more difficult, costly or time-consuming than expected, which may adversely affect DowDuPont's results and negatively affect the value of DowDuPont common stock.. The success of the Merger depends on, among other things, DowDuPont's ability to combine the DuPont and Dow businesses in a manner that facilitates the intended separation of the Company's agriculture, materials science and specialty products businesses through one or more tax-efficient transactions (the \"Intended Business Separations\"), resulting in three independent, publicly traded companies, and realizes anticipated synergies.. DowDuPont expects to benefit from significant cost synergies at both the business and corporate levels through the DowDuPont Cost Synergy Program (the \"Synergy Program\") which is designed to integrate and optimize the organization following the Merger and in preparation for the Intended Business Separations, including through the achievement of production cost efficiencies, enhancement of the agricultural supply chain, elimination of duplicative agricultural research and development programs, optimization of the combined Company's global footprint across manufacturing, sales and research and development, optimizing manufacturing processes in the electronics space, the reduction of corporate and leveraged services costs, and the realization of significant procurement synergies. In connection with the Synergy Program, DowDuPont expects to record total pretax restructuring charges of approximately $2 billion, comprised of approximately $845 million to $935 million of severance and related benefit costs; $400 million to $540 million of asset write-downs and write-offs and $400 million to $450 million of costs associated with exit and disposal activities.. Management also expects the combined Company will achieve growth synergies and other meaningful savings and benefits as a result of the Intended Business Separations.. Combining DuPont and Dow's independent businesses and preparing for the Intended Business Separations are complex, costly and time-consuming processes and the management of DowDuPont may face significant implementation challenges, many of which may be beyond the control of management, including, without limitation:. • ongoing diversion of the attention of management from the operation of the combined Company's business as a result of the Intended Business Separations;. • impact of portfolio changes between materials science and specialty products on integration and separation preparation activities;. • difficulties in achieving anticipated cost savings, synergies, business opportunities and growth prospects;. • the possibility of faulty assumptions underlying expectations regarding the integration or separation process, including with respect to the intended tax efficient transactions;. • unanticipated issues in integrating, replicating or separating information technology, communications programs, financial procedures and operations, and other systems, procedures and policies;. • difficulties in managing a larger combined company, addressing differences in business culture and retaining key personnel;. • unanticipated changes in applicable laws and regulations;. • managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating the operations of the combined Company and the intended tax efficient separation transactions; and. • coordinating geographically separate organizations.. Some of these factors will be outside of the control of DowDuPont and any one of them could result in increased costs and diversion of management's time and energy, as well as decreases in the amount of expected revenue which could materially impact DowDuPont's business, financial condition and results of operations. The integration and Intended Businesses Separation processes and other disruptions, including those from divestitures and acquisitions undertaken in connection with securing regulatory approval for the Merger, as well as those from the portfolio changes between the materials science and specialty products businesses, may also adversely affect the combined Company's relationships with employees, suppliers, customers, distributors, licensors and others with whom DuPont and Dow have business or other dealings, and difficulties in integrating the businesses or regulatory functions of DuPont and Dow could harm the reputation of DowDuPont.. If DowDuPont is not able to successfully combine the businesses of DuPont and Dow in an efficient, cost-effective and timely manner, the anticipated benefits and cost savings, including from the Synergy Program, of the Merger (including the Intended Business Separations) may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected, and the value of DowDuPont common stock, the revenues, levels of expenses and results of operations may be affected adversely. A variety of factors may. 23. Table of Contents. adversely affect the Company's ability to realize the currently expected synergies, savings and other benefits of the Merger, including failure to successfully optimize the combined Company's facilities footprint, the failure to take advantage of the combined Company's global supply chain, the failure to identify and eliminate duplicative programs, and the failure to otherwise integrate DuPont's or Dow's respective businesses, including their technology platforms.. The determination to proceed with the Intended Business Separations is a decision of the DowDuPont Board of Directors and the expected benefits of such transactions, if they occur, will be uncertain.. In the event that the DowDuPont board determines to proceed with the Intended Business Separations, it is currently anticipated that any such Intended Business Separation transaction would be effectuated through two pro-rata spin-off transactions, in which DowDuPont stockholders, at such time, would receive shares of capital stock in the resulting spin-off companies, resulting in three independent, public companies. The DowDuPont board may ultimately determine to abandon one or more of the Intended Business Separation transactions, and such determination could have an adverse impact on DowDuPont. There are many factors that could, prior to the determination by the DowDuPont board to proceed with the Intended Business Separations, impact the structure or timing of, the anticipated benefits from, or determination to ultimately proceed with, the Intended Business Separations, including, among others, global economic conditions, instability in credit markets, declining consumer and business confidence, fluctuating commodity prices and interest rates, volatile foreign currency exchange rates, tax considerations, and other challenges that could affect the global economy, specific market conditions in one or more of the industries of the businesses proposed to be separated, and changes in the regulatory or legal environment. Such changes could adversely impact the value of one or more of the Intended Business Separation transactions to the combined Company's stockholders. Additionally, to the extent the DowDuPont board determines to proceed with the Intended Business Separations, the consummation of such transactions is a complex, costly and time-consuming process, and there can be no guarantee that the intended benefits of such transactions will be achieved. An inability to realize the full extent of the anticipated benefits of the Intended Business Separations, as well as any delays encountered in the process, could have an adverse effect upon the revenues, level of expenses and operating results of the agriculture business, the specialty products business, the materials science business and/or the combined Company.. DowDuPont will incur significant costs in connection with the integration of DuPont and Dow and the Intended Business Separations.. There are a large number of processes, policies, procedures, operations, technologies and systems that must be integrated in connection with the Merger and replicated, transferred or separated in connection with the Intended Business Separations. While DowDuPont has assumed a certain level of expenses, including in connection with the Synergy Program, would be incurred in connection with the Merger and the Intended Business Separations, there are many factors beyond the combined Company's control that could affect the total amount of, or the timing of, anticipated expenses with respect to the integration and implementation of the combined businesses.. There may also be additional unanticipated significant costs in connection with the Merger and the Intended Business Separations that DowDuPont may not recoup. These costs and expenses could reduce the benefits and additional income DowDuPont expects to achieve from the Merger. Although DowDuPont expects that these benefits will offset the transaction expenses and implementation costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term or at all.. Inability to access the debt capital markets could impair DowDuPont's liquidity, business or financial condition.. DowDuPont's primary sources of liquidity are through DuPont and Dow and their respective consolidated subsidiaries, (collectively, the \"Subsidiaries\"). Each of DuPont and Dow has relied and continues to rely on access to the debt capital markets to finance their day-to-day and long-term operations. In connection with the Merger, DowDuPont has not incurred debt obligations or guaranteed the debt obligations of DuPont or Dow. Any limitation on the part of either DuPont's or Dow's ability to raise money in the debt markets could have a substantial negative effect on their respective liquidity and the liquidity of DowDuPont. Access to the debt capital markets in amounts adequate to finance each Subsidiary's activities could be impaired as a result of the existence of material nonpublic information about the Intended Business Separations and other potential factors, including factors that are not specific to the Subsidiaries, such as a severe disruption of the financial markets and interest rate fluctuations.. Prior to the Intended Business Separations, if pursued, the level and quality of the respective earnings, operations, business and management, among other things, of each of DuPont and Dow will impact their respective credit ratings, costs and availability of financing and those of the combined Company. A decrease in the ratings assigned to DuPont or Dow by the ratings agencies may negatively impact their access to the debt capital markets and increase the combined Company's cost of borrowing. There can be no assurance that DuPont and Dow will maintain their current credit worthiness or prospective credit ratings. Any actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in such credit ratings may have a negative impact on the liquidity, capital position or access to capital markets of DuPont and Dow and, therefore, DowDuPont.. 24. Table of Contents. DowDuPont will be exposed to the risks related to international sales and operations.. DuPont and Dow each derive a large portion of their total sales and revenues from operations outside of the United States. Therefore, DowDuPont will have exposure to risks of operating in many foreign countries, including:. • difficulties and costs associated with complying with a wide variety of complex laws, treaties and regulations;. • unexpected changes in political or regulatory environments;. • labor compliance and costs associated with a global workforce;. • earnings and cash flows that may be subject to tax withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs;. • exchange controls or other restrictions;. • restrictions on, or difficulties and costs associated with, the repatriation of cash from foreign countries to the United States;. • political and economic instability;. • import and export restrictions and other trade barriers;. • difficulties in maintaining overseas subsidiaries and international operations;. • difficulties in obtaining approval for significant transactions;. • government limitations on foreign ownership;. • government takeover or nationalization of business;. • government mandated price controls; and. • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.. Any one or more of the above factors could adversely affect the international operations of the combined Company and could significantly affect the combined Company's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Availability of purchased feedstocks and energy, and the volatility of these costs, impact the Company's operating costs and add variability to earnings.. Primarily in support of its materials science businesses, the Company purchases hydrocarbon raw materials including ethane, propane, butane, naphtha and condensate as feedstocks. The Company also purchases certain monomers, primarily ethylene and propylene, to supplement internal production, as well as other raw materials. The Company purchases natural gas, primarily to generate electricity, and purchases electric power to supplement internal generation.. Feedstock and energy costs generally follow price trends in crude oil and natural gas, which are sometimes volatile. While the Company uses its feedstock flexibility and financial and physical hedging programs to help mitigate feedstock cost increases, the Company is not always able to immediately raise selling prices. Ultimately, the ability to pass on underlying cost increases is dependent on market conditions. Conversely, when feedstock and energy costs decline, selling prices generally decline as well. As a result, volatility in these costs could impact the Company's results of operations.. The Company has a number of investments in the U.S. Gulf Coast to take advantage of increasing supplies of low-cost natural gas and NGLs derived from shale gas including: the restart of the SCO-2 ethylene production facility in December 2012; construction of a new on-purpose propylene production facility, which commenced operations in December 2015; completion of a major maintenance turnaround in December 2016 at an ethylene production facility in Plaquemine, Louisiana, which included expanding the facility's ethylene production capacity by up to 250 KTA and modifications to enable full ethane cracking flexibility; and, construction of a new world-scale ethylene production facility in Freeport, Texas, which commenced operations in the third quarter of 2017, and a capacity expansion project which will bring the facility's total ethylene capacity to 2,000 KTA. As a result of these investments, the Company's exposure to purchased ethylene and propylene is expected to decline, offset by increased exposure to ethane- and propane-based feedstocks.. While the Company expects abundant and cost-advantaged supplies of NGLs in the United States to persist for the foreseeable future, if NGLs were to become significantly less advantaged than crude oil-based feedstocks, it could have a negative impact on the Company's results of operations and future investments. Also, if the Company's key suppliers of feedstocks and energy are unable to provide the raw materials required for production, it could have a negative impact on the Company's results of operations.. Earnings generated by the Company's products vary based in part on the balance of supply relative to demand within the industry.. The balance of supply relative to demand within the industry may be significantly impacted by the addition of new capacity, especially for basic commodities where capacity is generally added in large increments as world-scale facilities are built. This may disrupt industry balances and result in downward pressure on prices due to the increase in supply, which could negatively impact the Company's results of operations.. 25. Table of Contents. The costs of complying with evolving regulatory requirements could negatively impact the Company's financial results. Actual or alleged violations of environmental laws or permit requirements could result in restrictions or prohibitions on plant operations, substantial civil or criminal sanctions, as well as the assessment of strict liability and/or joint and several liability.. The Company is subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign laws, regulations, rules and ordinances relating to pollution, protection of the environment, greenhouse gas emissions, and the generation, storage, handling, transportation, treatment, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances and waste materials. Costs and capital expenditures relating to environmental, health or safety matters are subject to evolving regulatory requirements and depend on the timing of the promulgation and enforcement of specific standards which impose the requirements. Moreover, changes in environmental regulations could inhibit or interrupt the Company's operations, or require modifications to its facilities. Accordingly, environmental, health or safety regulatory matters could result in significant unanticipated costs or liabilities.. Increased concerns regarding the safe use of seeds with biotechnology traits, crop protection products, and chemicals in commerce and their potential impact on the environment as well as perceived impacts of biotechnology on health and the environment, have resulted in more restrictive regulations and could lead to new regulations.. Concerns and claims regarding the safe use of seeds with biotechnology traits, crop protection products, and chemicals, their potential impact on health and the environment, and the perceived impacts of biotechnology on health and the environment reflect a growing trend in societal demands for increasing levels of product safety and environmental protection. These concerns and claims include those that increased use of crop protection products, related drift and volatilization, and of biotechnology traits to address resistance of weeds and pests to control by crop protection products, could increase such resistance and otherwise negatively impact health and the environment. These concerns could manifest themselves in stockholder proposals, preferred purchasing, delays or failures in obtaining or retaining regulatory approvals, delayed product launches, lack of market acceptance, product discontinuation, continued pressure for and adoption of more stringent regulatory intervention and litigation. These concerns could also influence public perceptions, the viability or continued sales of certain of the Company's products, the Company's reputation and the cost to comply with regulations. These concerns could have a negative impact on the Company's results of operations.. In most jurisdictions, the Company must test the safety, efficacy and environmental impact of its agricultural products to satisfy regulatory requirements and obtain the necessary approvals. In certain jurisdictions, the Company must periodically renew its approvals which may require it to demonstrate compliance with then-current standards. The regulatory environment is lengthy, complex and in some markets unpredictable, with requirements that can vary by product, technology, industry and country. The regulatory environment may be impacted by the activities of non-governmental organizations and special interest groups and stakeholder reaction to actual or perceived impacts of new technology, products or processes on safety, health and the environment. Obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals requires submitting a significant amount of information and data, which may require participation from technology providers. Regulatory standards and trial procedures are continuously changing. The pace of change together with the lack of regulatory harmony could result in unintended noncompliance.. Responding to these changes and meeting existing and new requirements may involve significant costs or capital expenditures or require changes in business practice that could result in reduced profitability. The failure to receive necessary permits or approvals could have near- and long-term effects on the Company's ability to produce and sell some current and future products.. To maintain its right to produce or sell existing products or to commercialize new products containing biotechnology traits, particularly seed products, the Company must be able to demonstrate its ability to satisfy the requirements of regulatory agencies. Sales into and use of seeds with biotechnology traits in jurisdictions where cultivation has been approved could be impacted if key import markets have not approved the import of grains, food and food ingredients and other products derived from those seeds. If import of grains, food and food ingredients and other products derived from those seeds containing such biotechnology traits occurs in these markets, it could lead to disruption in trade and potential liability for the Company.. In addition, the Company's regulatory compliance could be affected by the detection of low level presence of biotechnology traits in conventional seed or products produced from such seed. Furthermore, the detection of biotechnology traits not approved in the country of cultivation may affect the Company's ability to supply product and could affect exports of products produced from such seeds and even result in crop destruction or product recalls.. A significant operational event could negatively impact the Company's results of operations.. The Company's operations, the transportation of products, cyber-attacks, or severe weather conditions and other natural phenomena (such as drought, hurricanes, earthquakes, tsunamis, floods, etc.) could result in an unplanned event that could be significant in scale and could negatively impact operations, neighbors or the public at large, which could have a negative impact on the Company's results of operations.. 26. Table of Contents. Major hurricanes have caused significant disruption in the Company's operations on the U.S. Gulf Coast, logistics across the region, and the supply of certain raw materials, which had an adverse impact on volume and cost for some of the Company's products. Due to the Company's substantial presence on the U.S. Gulf Coast, similar severe weather conditions or other natural phenomena in the future could negatively impact the Company's results of operations.. In addition, terrorist attacks and natural disasters have increased concerns about the security and safety of chemical production and distribution. Local, state, federal and foreign governments continue to propose new regulations related to the security of chemical plant locations and the transportation of hazardous chemicals, which could result in higher operating costs.. The risk of loss of the Company's intellectual property, trade secrets or other sensitive business information or disruption of operations could negatively impact the Company's financial results.. Cyber-attacks or security breaches could compromise confidential, business critical information, cause a disruption in the Company's operations or harm the Company's reputation. The Company has attractive information assets, including intellectual property, trade secrets and other sensitive, business critical information. While the Company has a comprehensive cyber security program that is continuously reviewed, maintained and upgraded, a significant cyber-attack could result in the loss of critical business information and/or could negatively impact operations, which could have a negative impact on the Company's financial results.. Implementing certain elements of the Company's strategy could negatively impact the Company's financial results.. The Company currently has manufacturing operations, sales and marketing activities, joint ventures, as well as proposed and existing projects of varying size in emerging geographies. Activities in these geographic regions are accompanied by uncertainty and risks including: navigating different government regulatory environments; relationships with new, local partners; project funding commitments and guarantees; expropriation, military actions, war, terrorism and political instability; sabotage; uninsurable risks; suppliers not performing as expected, resulting in increased risk of extended project timelines; and determining raw material supply and other details regarding product movement. If the manufacturing operations, sales and marketing activities, and/or implementation of these projects is not successful, it could adversely affect the Company's financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. An impairment of goodwill or intangible assets could negatively impact the Company's financial results.. At least annually, the Company assesses both goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment. Intangible assets with finite lives are tested for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. If testing indicates that goodwill or intangible assets are impaired, the carrying values are written down based on fair values with a charge against earnings. Where the Company utilizes discounted cash flow methodologies in determining fair values, continued weak demand for a specific product line or business could result in an impairment. Accordingly, any determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of goodwill or intangible assets could negatively impact the Company's results of operations.. As a result of the Merger and the related acquisition method of accounting, which resulted in DuPont's assets and liabilities being measured at fair value, the Company's goodwill increased by $45.1 billion and the Company's intangible assets increased by $27.2 billion. Future impairments of either could be recorded in results of operations due to changes in assumptions, estimates or circumstances and there can be no assurance that such impairments would be immaterial to the Company, DuPont or Dow.. Increased obligations and expenses related to DuPont's and Dow's defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans could negatively impact DowDuPont's financial condition and results of operations.. DuPont and Dow have defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans (\"OPEB\") (collectively, the \"plans\") in the United States and a number of other countries. The assets of the DuPont and Dow funded plans are primarily invested in fixed income and equity securities of U.S. and foreign issuers. Changes in the market value of plan assets, investment returns, discount rates, mortality rates, regulations and the rate of increase in compensation levels may affect the funded status of the plans and could cause volatility in the net periodic benefit cost, future funding requirements of the plans and the funded status of the plans. A significant increase in DuPont's and Dow's obligations or future funding requirements could have a negative impact on the Company's results of operations and cash flows for a particular period and on the Company's financial condition.. Unpredictable seasonal and weather factors could impact sales and earnings from the Company's Agriculture segment.. The agriculture industry is subject to seasonal and weather factors, which can vary unpredictably from period to period. Weather factors can affect the presence of disease and pests on a regional basis and, accordingly, can positively or adversely affect the demand for crop protection products, including the mix of products used. The weather also can affect the quality, volume and cost of seed produced for sale as well as demand and product mix. Seed yields can be higher or lower than planned, which could lead to higher inventory and related write-offs and affect the ability to supply.. 27. Table of Contents. Inability to discover, develop and protect new technologies and enforce the Company's intellectual property rights, and to respond to new technologies, could adversely affect the Company's financial results.. The Company competes with major global companies that have strong intellectual property rights, including rights supporting the use of biotechnology to enhance products, particularly agricultural and bio-based products. Speed in discovering, developing, protecting, and responding to new technologies, including new technology-based distribution channels that could impede the Company's ability to engage with customers and end user, and bringing related products to market is a significant competitive advantage. Failure to predict and respond effectively could cause the Company's existing or candidate products to become less competitive, adversely affecting sales. Competitors are increasingly challenging intellectual property positions and the outcomes can be highly uncertain. If challenges are resolved adversely, it could negatively impact the Company's ability to obtain licenses on competitive terms, commercialize new products and generate sales from existing products.. Intellectual property rights, including patents, plant variety protection, trade secrets, confidential information, trademarks, tradenames and other forms of trade dress, are important to the Company's business. The Company endeavors to protect its intellectual property rights in jurisdictions in which its products are produced or used and in jurisdictions into which its products are imported. However, the Company may be unable to obtain protection for its intellectual property in key jurisdictions. Further, changes in government policies and regulations, including changes made in reaction to pressure from non-governmental organizations, could impact the extent of intellectual property protection afforded by such jurisdictions.. The majority of the Company's corn hybrids and soybean varieties sold to customers contain biotechnology traits that are licensed from third parties under long-term licenses. If the Company loses its rights under such licenses, it could negatively impact the Company's ability to obtain future licenses on competitive terms, commercialize new products and generate sales from existing products.. The Company has designed and implemented internal controls to restrict access to and distribution of its intellectual property. Despite these precautions, the Company's intellectual property is vulnerable to unauthorized access through employee error or actions, theft and cybersecurity incidents, and other security breaches. When unauthorized access and use or counterfeit products are discovered, the Company reports such situations to governmental authorities for investigation, as appropriate, and takes measures to mitigate any potential impact. Protecting intellectual property related to biotechnology is particularly challenging because theft is difficult to detect and biotechnology can be self-replicating. Accordingly, the impact of such theft can be significant.. Failure to effectively manage acquisitions, divestitures, alliances and other portfolio actions could adversely impact DowDuPont's future results.. The Company made certain divestitures, primarily related to its Agriculture segment, in connection with obtaining regulatory approval for the Merger. In addition, the Company from time to time evaluates acquisition candidates that may strategically fit its business and/or growth objectives. If the Company is unable to successfully integrate and develop acquired businesses, the Company could fail to achieve anticipated synergies and cost savings, including any expected increases in revenues and operating results, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial results. The Company continually reviews its portfolio of assets for contributions to the Company's objectives and alignment with its growth strategy. However, the Company may not be successful in separating underperforming or non-strategic assets, and gains or losses on the divestiture of, or lost operating income from, such assets may affect the Company's earnings. Moreover, the Company might incur asset impairment charges related to acquisitions or divestitures that reduce its earnings. In addition, if the execution or implementation of acquisitions, divestitures, alliances, joint ventures and other portfolio actions is not successful, it could adversely impact the Company's financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. DowDuPont's results of operations could be adversely affected by litigation and other commitments and contingencies.. The Company faces risks arising from various unasserted and asserted litigation matters, including, but not limited to, asbestos-related suits, product liability, patent infringement, antitrust claims, governmental regulations, contract and commercial litigation, claims for third party property damage or personal injury stemming from alleged environmental torts, and other actions. The Company has noted a nationwide trend in purported class actions against chemical manufacturers generally seeking relief such as medical monitoring, property damages, off-site remediation and punitive damages arising from alleged environmental torts without claiming present personal injuries. The Company also has noted a trend in public and private suits being filed on behalf of states, counties, cities and utilities alleging harm to the general public and the environment, including waterways and watersheds. An adverse outcome in any one or more of these matters could be material to the Company's financial results.. See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on litigation and other commitments and contingencies faced by the Company.. In the ordinary course of business, the Company may make certain commitments, including representations, warranties and indemnities relating to current and past operations, including those related to divested businesses and issue guarantees of third. 28. Table of Contents. party obligations. If the Company were required to make payments as a result, they could exceed the amounts accrued, thereby adversely affecting the Company's results of operations."
