[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, shareholders or prospective investors should carefully consider the following risk factors when evaluating DSW Inc. If any of the events described below occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects could be negatively affected.. Risks Relating to Our Business. Our strategy of growing our store base and digital demand could strain our resources and have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance.. Our continued and future growth in part depends on our ability to successfully open and operate new DSW stores on a profitable basis. We also continue to invest in our digital capabilities in order to deliver a high-quality, coordinated shopping experience for our customers, which requires substantial investment in technology. This continued growth could place increased demands on our financial, managerial, operational and administrative resources. We may not achieve our planned growth on a timely and profitable basis or achieve results in new locations similar to those achieved in existing locations in prior periods.. We plan to expand the chain by approximately three to six DSW stores in fiscal 2018. Our ability to open and operate new DSW stores on a timely and profitable basis depends on many factors, including our ability to: identify suitable markets and sites for new store locations with financially stable co-tenants and landlords; negotiate acceptable lease terms; build-out or refurbish sites on a timely and effective basis; obtain sufficient financing and capital resources or generate sufficient cash flows from operations to fund growth; open new stores at costs not significantly greater than those anticipated; successfully open new DSW stores in markets in which we currently have few or no stores; control the costs of other capital investments associated with store openings; hire, train and retain qualified managers and store personnel; and successfully integrate new stores into our existing infrastructure, operations, management and distribution systems or adapt such infrastructure, operations and systems to accommodate our growth. As a result, we may be unable to open new stores at the rates expected or at all. If we fail to successfully implement our growth strategy, the opening of new DSW stores could be delayed or prevented, could cost more than anticipated and could divert resources from other areas of our business, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. To the extent that we open new DSW stores in our existing markets, we may experience reduced net sales in existing stores in those markets. As our store base increases, our stores will become more concentrated in the markets we serve. As a result, the number of customers and financial performance of individual stores may decline and the average sales per square foot at our stores may be reduced, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. As we introduce enhancements to our web site at dsw.com, the mobile site at m.dsw.com, and the DSW mobile application, we could experience downtime or other technical issues, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, the growth in digital demand could result in a diversion of traffic from our stores.. The planned acquisition of Town Shoes could disrupt our ongoing business and adversely impact our results of operations.. During the first half of fiscal 2018, we intend to exercise the call option to purchase the remaining interest in Town Shoes. We may not succeed in executing the acquisition on time, within budget, or at all. The acquisition of Town Shoes may disrupt our business or divert the attention of our management. Achieving the expected benefits depends in large part on our successful integration of Town Shoes' operations, systems and personnel with our own in a timely and efficient manner. We cannot ensure that all of our integration efforts will be completed on a timely basis or as planned. Our operating results or financial condition may be adversely impacted by pre-existing claims or liabilities, both known and unknown. In addition, the integration process may strain our financial and managerial controls and reporting systems and procedures and may also result in the diversion of management and financial resources from core business objectives. Our ability to successfully operate Town Shoes in Canada may be adversely affected by political, economic and social conditions beyond our control, local laws and customs, and legal and regulatory constraints, including compliance with applicable anti-corruption and currency laws and regulations. Risks. 5. Table of Contents. inherent in our existing and future operations also include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing operations outside of the United States, suffering possible adverse tax consequences from changes in tax laws or the unfavorable resolution of tax assessments or audits, and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights. Additionally, foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations thereof may have an adverse effect on our financial results. There can be no assurance that we will successfully integrate our businesses or that we will realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition after we complete our integration efforts.. Our failure to protect our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our brands.. The value of our brand is largely dependent on the success of our merchandise assortment and our ability to provide a consistent, high quality customer experience. Any negative publicity about us or the significant brands we offer may reduce demand for our merchandise. Failure to comply with ethical, social, product, labor, health and safety, accounting or environmental standards could also jeopardize our reputation and potentially lead to various adverse consumer actions. Consumer actions could include boycotts and negative publicity through social or digital media. Public perception about us or the products we carry, whether justified or not, could impair our reputation, involve us in litigation, damage our brand and have a material adverse effect on our business.. We rely on our strong relationships with vendors to purchase brand name and designer merchandise at favorable prices. If these relationships were to be impaired, we may not be able to obtain a sufficient assortment of merchandise at attractive prices, and we may not be able to respond promptly to changing fashion trends, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance.. Our success depends, to a significant extent, on the willingness and ability of our vendors to supply us with sufficient inventory to stock our sales channels as we generally do not have long-term supply agreements or exclusive arrangements with any vendors. If we fail to maintain strong relationships with our existing vendors or to ensure the quality of merchandise they supply us, and if we cannot maintain or acquire new vendors of in-season brand name and designer merchandise, our ability to obtain a sufficient amount and variety of merchandise at favorable prices may be limited, which could have a negative impact on our business. Decisions by vendors to not sell to us or to limit the availability of their products to us could have a negative impact on our business. In addition, our inability to stock our sales channels with in-season merchandise at attractive prices could result in lower net sales and decreased customer interest in our sales channels, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Further, if our merchandise costs increase due to increases incurred by our vendors in raw materials, energy, labor, or duties and taxes on imports, or other reasons, our ability to respond or the effect of our response could adversely affect our net sales or gross profit. During fiscal 2017, three key vendors together supplied approximately 20% of our merchandise. The loss of, or a reduction in, the amount and quality of merchandise supplied by any one of these vendors could have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, any negative brand image, wide-spread product defects, or negative publicity related to these three key vendors, or other vendors, could have an adverse effect on our brand reputation and on our business.. We may be unable to anticipate and respond to fashion trends, consumer preferences and changing customer expectations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our merchandising strategy is based on having the proper mix of products in each store to attract our target customers or having those products available via our omni-channel capabilities. This requires us to anticipate and respond to numerous and fluctuating variables in fashion trends and other conditions in the markets in which our stores are situated. A variety of factors will affect our ability to maintain the proper mix of products in each store, including: local economic conditions impacting customers' discretionary spending; unanticipated fashion trends; our ability to provide timely access to in-season merchandise at attractive prices; our success in distributing merchandise to our stores in an efficient manner; and changes in weather patterns, which in turn affect consumer preferences. If we are unable to anticipate and fulfill the merchandise needs of our customers, we may experience decreases in our net sales and may be forced to increase markdowns in relation to slow-moving merchandise, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Being an omni-channel retailer is a business necessity to meet changing customer experience expectations and an opportunity to create a competitive advantage as our customers expect to be able to shop across multiple sales channels. In the event that our omni-channel strategy does not meet customer expectations or is not differentiated from our competitors, it may have a material adverse effect on our business.. 6. Table of Contents. The loss or disruption of information technology services could affect our ability to implement our growth strategy and have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our information technology systems are an integral part of our growth strategy in efficiently operating and expanding our business, in managing operations and protecting against security risks related to our electronic processing and transmitting of confidential customer and associate data. The requirements to keep our information technology systems operating at peak performance may be higher than anticipated and could strain our capital resources, management of any system upgrades, implementation of new systems and the related change management processes required with new systems and our ability to protect ourselves from any future information security breaches. In addition, any significant disruption of our data center could have a material adverse effect on those operations dependent on those systems, most specifically, store operations, dsw.com, our distribution and fulfillment centers and our merchandising team. While we maintain business interruption and property insurance, in the event our data center was to be shut down, our insurance may not be sufficient to cover the impact to the business.. We accept orders through our e-commerce channels and are subject to various risks of operating online and mobile selling capabilities such as: the failure of our information technology infrastructure, including any third-party hardware or software, resulting in downtime or other technical issues; difficulty in integrating acquired businesses; reliance on third-party logistics providers to deliver our products to customers; inability to respond to technological changes; violations of state or federal laws; credit card fraud; or other information security breaches. Failure to mitigate these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We face security risks related to our electronic processing of sensitive and confidential personal and business data. If we are unable to protect our data, a security breach could damage our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business.. Given the nature of our business, we collect, process and retain sensitive and confidential customer and associate data, in addition to proprietary business information. We may be vulnerable to a data compromise, computer viruses, physical and electronic break-ins, and similar disruptions, which may not be prevented by our efforts to secure our computer systems, which include vulnerability scans and patching, web-application firewalls, reverse-proxies, network firewalls, two-factor authentication, identity and access management, data encryption, intrusion detection and prevention devices, endpoint detection and response software, and data loss prevention software. Regular penetration tests of our networks are conducted by a third party service provider and we leverage any findings to further enhance our security. We also employ secure file transfer options to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of confidential information. Our critical data is replicated and backed up to a separate secured datacenter. However, our efforts may not be able to prevent rapidly evolving types of cyber-attacks and a successful breach of our computer systems could result in misappropriation of personal, payment or sensitive business information. In addition, we rely on associates, contractors and other third parties who may attempt to circumvent our security measures in order to obtain such information, and may purposefully or inadvertently cause a breach involving such information. Actual or anticipated attacks, as well as the integration of new or existing systems of acquired businesses, may cause us to incur increasing costs, including costs to deploy additional personnel and protection technologies, train employees, pay higher insurance premiums, and engage third party specialists for additional services. An information security breach involving confidential and personal data could damage our reputation and our customers' willingness to shop in our stores or through our e-commerce platforms. In addition, we may incur material liabilities and remediation costs as a result of an information security breach, including potential liability for stolen customer or associate data, repairing system damage or providing credit monitoring or other benefits to customers or associates affected by the breach. In the event we experience an information security breach, our insurance may not be sufficient to cover the impact to the business. Although we have developed mitigating security controls to reduce our cyber risk and protect our data from loss or disclosure due to a security breech, including processes designed to reduce the impact of a security breach at a third-party vendor, such measures cannot provide absolute security.. The loss or disruption of our distribution and/or fulfillment operations could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations.. For our DSW and ABG stores, the majority of our inventory is shipped directly from suppliers to our distribution center in Columbus, Ohio and a West Coast facility operated by a third party, where the inventory is then processed, sorted and shipped to one of our pool locations located throughout the country and then on to the stores. Our inventory can also be shipped directly from our fulfillment center, also located in Columbus, Ohio, and supported by a third party, to our customers. Through our ship from store capability, our inventory is shipped directly from our DSW stores. Through our drop ship program, inventory is shipped from the vendor's warehouse directly to the customer.. 7. Table of Contents. Our operating results depend on the orderly operation of our receiving, distribution, and fulfillment process, which in turn depends on third-party vendors' adherence to shipping schedules and our effective management of our facilities. We may not anticipate all the changing demands that our expanding operations will impose on our receiving, distribution, and fulfillment system, and events beyond our control, such as disruptions in operations due to integration of new stores or businesses, catastrophic events, labor disagreements, or shipping problems, that may result in delays in the delivery of merchandise to our stores and customers. While we maintain business interruption and property insurance, in the event our distribution and fulfillment centers shut down for any reason or if we were to incur higher costs and longer lead times in connection with a disruption at our distribution and fulfillment centers, our insurance may not be sufficient to cover the impact to the business.. If Stein Mart were to terminate our supply agreement, close a significant number of stores or liquidate, such event could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance.. We currently provide services through ABG to 292 Stein Mart stores and Steinmart.com through ongoing supply arrangements. Our contractual termination date for the supply agreement with Stein Mart is January 2020. If Stein Mart were to terminate our supply agreement, close a significant number of stores or liquidate, such event could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance.. We are constantly exploring new business opportunities and implementing initiatives. The failure to successfully execute our strategies may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. The continued development and implementation of new business opportunities and strategies could distract management from our core business. During fiscal 2014, we acquired an equity interest in Town Shoes and plan to acquire the remaining interest during the first half of fiscal 2018. During fiscal 2016, we signed an agreement with the Apparel Group as an exclusive franchise partner in the Gulf Coast region of the Middle East. In the event that we lose focus on our core business or are unsuccessful in the execution of our concept, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. If our international franchisees do not operate the franchised stores according to our standards, our brand reputation could be negatively impacted.. We are exposed to risks through international relationships. During fiscal 2014, we entered into a licensing agreement that allows Town Shoes to use the DSW Designer Shoe Warehouse tradename for their new larger concept Canadian stores. During fiscal 2016, we signed a franchise agreement that will permit our franchisee to operate our DSW Designer Shoe Warehouse stores in the Gulf Coast region of the Middle East. Although we evaluated and selected our franchisee and will do so with further franchisees, our ability to impact the success of their operations is limited. Our franchisees may not run the stores according to our standards, which could have a material adverse effect on our brand reputation and our business. We are also subject to certain U.S. laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, as well as compliance with the laws of foreign countries in which we operate. Violations of these laws could subject us to sanctions or other fines or penalties that could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our sales and quarterly financial performance may fluctuate for a variety of reasons, including seasonal variability.. Our business is sensitive to consumer spending patterns, which in turn are subject to prevailing regional and national economic conditions and the general level of economic activity. Our comparable sales and quarterly results of operations have fluctuated in the past, and we expect them to continue to fluctuate in the future. A variety of other factors affect our sales and quarterly financial performance, including: uncertain macro-economic conditions and changes in the retail sales environment; changes in our merchandising strategy; timing and concentration of new DSW store openings and related new store and other start-up costs; expenses associated with new DSW stores, our omni-channel strategy and marketing expenses; changes in our merchandise mix; changes in and regional variations in demographic and population characteristics; timing of promotional events; seasonal fluctuations due to weather conditions; and actions by our competitors. Accordingly, our results for any one fiscal quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for any other quarter, and comparable sales for any particular future period may increase or decrease. Our future financial performance may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which may adversely impact the price of our common shares.. In addition, our business is subject to seasonal merchandise trends when our customers' interest in new seasonal styles increases. New spring styles are introduced in the first quarter and new fall styles are introduced in the third quarter. As a result of seasonal merchandise trends, any factors negatively affecting us during these periods, including adverse weather, the timing and level of markdowns, fashion trends or unfavorable economic conditions, could have a material adverse effect on our business.. 8. Table of Contents. Our failure to retain our existing senior management team and to continue to attract qualified new personnel could adversely affect our business.. Our business requires disciplined execution at all levels of our organization, which requires an experienced and talented management team. If we were to lose the benefit of the experience, efforts and abilities of any of our key executives and buying personnel, our business could be adversely affected. We have entered into employment agreements with several key executives and also offer compensation packages designed to attract and retain talent. Furthermore, our ability to manage our expansion will require us to continue to train, motivate and develop our employees to maintain a high level of talent for future challenges and succession planning. Competition for these types of personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and. retaining the personnel required to grow and operate our business.. We are dependent on our customer loyalty program and marketing to drive traffic, sales and loyalty, and any decrease in membership or purchases from members could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Customer traffic is influenced by our marketing and our DSW Rewards programs. DSW Rewards is a customer loyalty program that we rely on to drive customer traffic, sales and loyalty. DSW Rewards members earn reward certificates of discounts on future purchases. Approximately 25 million members are enrolled in our DSW Rewards program and have made at least one purchase over the course of the last two years. In fiscal 2017, shoppers in the DSW Rewards program generated approximately 90% of DSW segment sales. During fiscal 2018, we are planning to launch a new loyalty program called DSW VIP, with new benefits, personalized options and faster ways to earn points, which we cannot ensure will activate more customers, increase purchase frequency or grow sales. In the event that our reward members do not continue to shop at DSW, we fail to add new members, the number of members decreases, or our marketing is not effective in driving customer traffic, this could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We are exposed to risks through the leasing of certain properties.. We lease an office space that expires in 2024, which we sublease the entire space to an unrelated third party at an annual rent that is lower than our total annual lease obligation. The sublease was renewed for a two-year term in June 2017, but that tenant can terminate at any time with 60 days' notice. In addition, as a result of a previous merger, we provided a guarantee for a lease commitment that is scheduled to expire in 2024 of a location that has been leased to a third party. In the event that any of these arrangements is not renewed or is terminated, the foregoing circumstances or events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.. We have a leased office space that expires in 2020 and a leased fulfillment center that expires in 2023 related to the Ebuys business. As a result of our decision to exit the Ebuys business, we are marketing these locations to third parties to assume or sublease. We cannot assure that we will be able to assign or sublease either of these properties, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. Risks Relating to the External Environment. We may be unable to compete in our highly competitive market, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. The retail footwear market is highly competitive with few barriers to entry. We compete against a diverse group of retailers, both small and large, including department stores, mall-based shoe stores, national chains, independent shoe retailers, single-brand specialty retailers, online shoe retailers, brand-oriented discounters, multi-channel specialty retailers and brand suppliers who sell directly to consumers. Our success depends on our ability to remain competitive with respect to assortment, convenience and value. The performance of our competitors, as well as a change in their pricing policies as a result of the current economic environment, marketing activities and other business strategies, could have a material adverse effect on our business.. E-commerce networks have rapidly evolved while consumer receptiveness to shopping online has substantially increased. Competition from e-commerce players has significantly increased due to their ability to provide improved user experience, greater ease of buying goods, low or no shipping fees, faster shipping times and more favorable return policies. Businesses, including our suppliers, can easily launch online sites and mobile platforms at nominal costs by using commercially available software or partnering with any of a number of successful digital marketplace providers. Some of our suppliers use such platforms to compete with us by allowing consumers to purchase products directly through the supplier. Competitors with other revenue sources may also be able to devote more resources to marketing and promotional campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies and devote more resources to websites, mobile platforms and applications and systems development.. 9. Table of Contents. We rely on foreign sources for our merchandise, and our business is therefore subject to risks associated with international trade.. We purchase merchandise from domestic and foreign vendors. In addition, many of our domestic vendors import a large portion of their merchandise from abroad, primarily from China, Brazil and Italy. We believe that almost all the merchandise we purchased during fiscal 2017 was manufactured outside the United States, and the majority was manufactured in China. For this reason, we face risks inherent in purchasing from foreign suppliers, such as: economic and political instability in countries where these suppliers are located; international hostilities or acts of war or terrorism affecting the United States or foreign countries from which our merchandise is sourced; increases in shipping costs; transportation delays and interruptions, including increased inspections of import shipments by domestic authorities; work stoppages; U.S. laws affecting the importation of goods, including duties, tariffs and quotas and other non-tariff barriers; expropriation or nationalization; changes in foreign government administration and governmental policies; changes in import duties or quotas; compliance with trade and foreign tax laws; and local business practices, including compliance with foreign laws and with domestic and international labor standards.. We require our vendors to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations and our internal requirements. However, we do not control our vendors or their labor and business practices. The violation of labor or other laws by one of our vendors could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Uncertainty in future changes to tax legislation, regulatory reform or policies could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Tax laws, regulations, and policies in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change due to economic, political and other conditions. The recently enacted U.S. tax reform legislation referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the \"U.S. Tax Reform\"), significantly changes how the U.S. taxes corporations and requires complex computations to be performed that were not previously required in U.S. tax law. The U.S. Treasury Department, the Internal Revenue Service (the \"IRS\"), and other standard-setting bodies could interpret or issue guidance on how provisions of the U.S. Tax Reform will be applied or otherwise administered that is different from our interpretation. As we complete our analysis of the U.S. Tax Reform, collect and prepare necessary data, and interpret any additional guidance, we may make adjustments to provisional amounts that we have recorded that may materially impact our provision for income taxes in the period in which the adjustments are made. In addition, state, local or foreign jurisdictions may enact tax laws in response to the U.S. Tax Reform that could result in further changes to taxation and materially affect our financial position and results of operations.. Uncertain economic conditions and other events in the United States and other countries in which we operate, can adversely affect consumer confidence and consumer spending habits, which could result in reduced net sales.. Consumer spending habits, including spending for the footwear and accessories that we sell, are affected by, among other things: prevailing economic conditions; levels of employment; salaries and wage rates; prevailing interest rates; income tax rates and policies; consumer confidence; and consumer perception of economic conditions. In addition, consumer purchasing patterns may be influenced by consumers' disposable income. Consumer confidence can also be affected by the domestic or international political environment. The outbreak or escalation of war, natural disasters, or the occurrence of terrorist acts or other hostilities in or affecting the United States or other countries in which we operate, could lead to a decrease in spending by consumers. In an economic slowdown, we could experience lower net sales than expected on a quarterly or annual basis and be forced to delay or slow our expansion plans. Reduced net sales may result in reduced operating cash flows if we are not able to appropriately manage inventory levels or leverage expenses. These negative economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Restrictions in our Credit Facility could limit our operational flexibility.. On August 25, 2017, we entered into a senior unsecured revolving credit agreement (the \"Credit Facility\") with a maturity date of August 25, 2022 that replaced our previous secured revolving credit agreement and letter of credit agreement. The Credit Facility provides a revolving line of credit up to $300 million, with sub-limits for the issuance of up to $50 million in letters of credit, swing loan advances of up to $15 million, and the issuance of up to $75 million in foreign currency revolving loans and letters of credit. The Credit Facility may be further increased by up to $100 million subject to agreed-upon terms and conditions. The Credit Facility may be used to provide funds for working capital, capital expenditures, dividends and share repurchases, other expenditures, and permitted acquisitions as defined by the Credit Facility. The Credit Facility contains financial and other covenants, including, but not limited to, limitations on indebtedness, liens and investments, as well as the maintenance of a leverage ratio not to exceed 3.25:1 and a fixed charge coverage ratio not to be less than 1.75:1. A violation of any of the covenants could result in a default under the Credit Facility that would permit the lenders to restrict our ability to. 10. Table of Contents. further access the Credit Facility for loans and letters of credit and require the immediate repayment of any outstanding loans under the Credit Facility.. Our cash and investments are subject to risks that could affect the liquidity of these investments.. As of February 3, 2018, we had cash and investments of $300.5 million. A portion of these are held as cash in operating accounts that are with third-party financial institutions. While we regularly monitor the cash balances in our operating accounts and when possible adjust the balances as appropriate to be within Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance limits, these cash balances could be lost or inaccessible if the underlying financial institutions fail or are subject to other adverse conditions in the financial markets.. While we generally invest in lower risk investments, investment risk has been and may further be exacerbated by credit and liquidity issues that have affected various sectors of the financial markets. Our access to cash and investments, their earning potential or our ability to invest in highly rated, low risk investments may be impacted by adverse conditions in the U.S. financial markets. These market risks associated with our cash and investments could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We are exposed to foreign currency risk.. As a result of our equity investment in Town Shoes, our notes receivables from Town Shoes, and investments in available-for-sale securities in Canada, we are exposed to foreign currency rate risk. We currently do not utilize hedging instruments to mitigate foreign currency exchange risks. As of February 3, 2018, we have $10.1 million of a net foreign currency translation loss balance within accumulated other comprehensive loss. As investments are sold and when we acquire the remaining interest in Town Shoes, the associated accumulated losses will be recognized in our statement of operations. In addition, we are increasingly exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to our revenue, profits, assets, and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar.. Risks Relating to our Common Shares. Our amended articles of incorporation, amended and restated code of regulations and Ohio state law contain provisions that may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of DSW Inc. This could adversely affect the value of our common shares.. Our amended articles of incorporation authorize our Board of Directors to issue up to 100,000,000 preferred shares and to determine the powers, preferences, privileges, rights, including voting rights, qualifications, limitations and restrictions on those shares, without any further vote or action by the shareholders. The rights of the holders of our Class A common shares will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred shares that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred shares could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control and could adversely affect the voting power of our common shares.. In addition, provisions of our amended articles of incorporation, amended and restated code of regulations and Ohio law, together or separately, could discourage potential acquisition proposals, delay or prevent a change in control or limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common shares. Among other things, these provisions establish a staggered board, require a super-majority vote to remove directors, and establish certain advance notice procedures for nomination of candidates for election as directors and for shareholder proposals to be considered at shareholders' meetings.. We do not expect a trading market for the Company's Class B common shares to develop and therefore any investment in the Class B common shares may be effectively illiquid, unless such shares are converted into the Company's Class A common shares.. There is currently no public market for the Company's Class B common shares. We do not intend to list the Class B common shares on any securities exchange or any automated quotation system. As a result, there can be no assurance that a secondary market will develop, and we do not expect any market makers to participate in a secondary market. Because the Class B common shares are not listed on a securities exchange or an automated quotation system, it may be difficult to obtain pricing information with respect to the shares. Accordingly, there may be a limited number of buyers if a holder decided to sell their Class B common shares. This may affect the price a holder would receive upon such sale. Alternatively, a holder of such shares could convert them into Class A common shares, on a share for share basis, prior to selling. However, such conversion could affect the timing of any such sale, which may in turn affect the price a holder may receive upon such sale.. 11. Table of Contents. The Schottenstein Affiliates, entities owned by or controlled by Jay L. Schottenstein, the executive chairman of the DSW Inc. Board of Directors, and members of his family, directly control or substantially influence the outcome of matters submitted for DSW Inc. shareholder votes, and their interests may differ from other shareholders.. As of February 3, 2018, the Schottenstein Affiliates have approximately 51% of the voting power of the Company's outstanding common shares. The Schottenstein Affiliates directly control or substantially influence the outcome of all matters submitted to DSW Inc.'s shareholders for approval, including the election of directors, approval of mergers or other business combinations, and acquisitions or dispositions of assets. The interests of the Schottenstein Affiliates may differ from or be opposed to the interests of other shareholders, and their level of ownership and voting power in the Company may have the effect of delaying or preventing a subsequent change in control that may be favored by other shareholders.. The Schottenstein Affiliates engage in a variety of businesses, including, but not limited to, business and inventory liquidations, apparel companies and real estate investments. Opportunities may arise in the area of potential competitive business activities that may be attractive to the Schottenstein Affiliates and us. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation provide that the Schottenstein Affiliates are under no obligation to communicate or offer any corporate opportunity to us. In addition, the Schottenstein Affiliates have the right to engage in similar activities as us, do business with our suppliers and customers, and, except as limited by agreement, employ or otherwise engage any of our officers or employees.. Furthermore, as a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of The New York Stock Exchange (\"NYSE\") rules, the Company qualifies for and, in the future, may opt to rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements, including having a majority of independent directors, as well as having nominating and corporate governance and compensation committees composed entirely of independent directors."
