[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the other information contained in this Report, you should carefully consider, in consultation with your legal, financial and other professional advisors, the risks described below, as well as the risk factors and uncertainties discussed in our other public filings with the SEC under the caption \"Risk Factors\" in evaluating us and our business before making a decision regarding an investment in the General Partner's securities.. The risks contained in this Report are not the only risks that we face. Additional risks that are not presently known, or that we presently deem to be immaterial, also could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and prospects. The trading price of the General Partner's securities could decline due to the materialization of any of these risks, and its shareholders and/or the Partnership's unitholders may lose all or part of their investment.. -. 7. -. This Report also contains forward-looking statements that may not be realized as a result of certain factors, including, but not limited to, the risks described herein and in our other public filings with the SEC. Please refer to the section in this Report entitled \"Cautionary Notice Regarding Forward-Looking Statements\" for additional information regarding forward-looking statements.. Risks Related to Our Business. Our use of debt financing could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.. We are subject to the risks normally associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flow will be insufficient to meet required principal and interest payments and the long-term risk that we will be unable to refinance our existing indebtedness, or that the terms of such refinancing will not be as favorable as the terms of existing indebtedness. Additionally, we may not be able to refinance borrowings by our unconsolidated subsidiaries on favorable terms or at all. If our debt cannot be paid, refinanced or extended, we may not be able to make distributions to shareholders and unitholders at expected levels. Further, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of a refinancing result in higher interest rates or other restrictive financial covenants upon the refinancing, then such refinancing would adversely affect our cash flow and funds available for operation, development and distribution.. We also have incurred, and may incur in the future, indebtedness that bears interest at variable rates. Thus, if market interest rates increase, so will our interest expense, which could reduce our cash flow and our ability to make distributions to shareholders and unitholders at expected levels.. Debt financing may not be available and equity issuances could be dilutive to our shareholders and unitholders.. Our ability to execute our business strategy depends on our access to an appropriate blend of debt financing, including unsecured lines of credit and other forms of secured and unsecured debt, and equity financing, including common equity and, at times, preferred equity issued by the General Partner. Debt financing may not be available over a longer period of time in sufficient amounts, on favorable terms or at all. If the General Partner issues additional equity securities, instead of debt, to manage capital needs, the interests of our existing shareholders and unitholders could be diluted.. Financial and other covenants under existing credit agreements could limit our flexibility and adversely affect our financial condition.. The terms of our various credit agreements and other indebtedness require that we comply with a number of customary financial and other covenants, such as maintaining debt service coverage and leverage ratios and maintaining insurance coverage. These covenants may limit our flexibility in our operations, and breaches of these covenants could result in defaults under the instruments governing the applicable indebtedness even if we have satisfied our payment obligations. As a result, we would also likely be unable to borrow any further amounts under our other debt instruments and other debt obligations may be accelerated, which could adversely affect our ability to fund operations.. Downgrades in our credit ratings could increase our borrowing costs or reduce our access to funding sources in the credit and capital markets.. We have a significant amount of debt outstanding, consisting mostly of unsecured debt. We are currently assigned corporate credit ratings from Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and Standard and Poor's Ratings Group based on their evaluation of our creditworthiness. All of our debt ratings remain investment grade, but there can be no assurance that we will not be downgraded or that any of our ratings will remain investment grade. If our credit ratings are downgraded or other negative action is taken, we could be required, among other things, to pay additional interest and fees on outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit agreement.. Credit rating reductions by one or more rating agencies could also adversely affect our access to funding sources, the cost and other terms of obtaining funding as well as our overall financial condition, operating results and cash flow.. -. 8. -. If we are unable to generate sufficient capital and liquidity, then we may be unable to pursue future development projects and other strategic initiatives.. To complete our ongoing and planned development projects, and to pursue our other strategic initiatives, we must continue to generate sufficient capital and liquidity to fund those activities. To generate that capital and liquidity, we rely upon funds from our existing operations, as well as funds that we raise through our capital raising activities. In the event that we are unable to generate sufficient capital and liquidity to meet our long-term needs, or if we are unable to generate capital and liquidity on terms that are favorable to us, then we may not be able to pursue development projects, acquisitions, or our other long-term strategic initiatives.. The General Partner's stock price and trading volume may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses to its shareholders and to the Partnership's unitholders, if and when they convert their Limited Partner Units to shares of the General Partner's common stock.. The market price of the General Partner's common stock could change in ways that may or may not be related to our business, our industry or our operating performance and financial condition. In addition, the trading volume in the General Partner's common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. Some of the factors that could negatively affect the General Partner's share price, or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of the General Partner's common stock, include uncertainty in the markets, general market and economic conditions, as well as those factors described in these \"Risk Factors\" and in other reports that we file with the SEC.. Many of these factors are beyond our control, and we cannot predict their potential effects on the price of the General Partner's common stock. If the market price of the General Partner's common stock declines, then its shareholders and the Partnership's unitholders, respectively, may be unable to resell their shares and units upon terms that are attractive to them. We cannot assure that the market price of the General Partner's common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. In addition, the securities markets in general may experience considerable unexpected price and volume fluctuations.. Our use of joint ventures may negatively impact our jointly-owned investments.. We have, and may continue to develop and acquire properties in joint ventures with other persons or entities when circumstances warrant the use of these structures. Our participation in joint ventures is subject to the risks that:. • We could become engaged in a dispute with any of our joint venture partners that might affect our ability to develop or operate a property;. • Our joint venture partners may have different objectives than we have regarding the appropriate timing and terms of any sale or refinancing of properties;. • Our joint venture partners may have competing interests in our markets that could create conflict of interest issues; and. • Maturities of debt encumbering our jointly owned investments may not be able to be refinanced at all or on terms that are as favorable as the current terms.. Our business and operations could suffer in the event of system failures or cyber security attacks.. Our systems are vulnerable to damages from any number of sources, including energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war, telecommunication failures and cyber security attacks, such as computer viruses or unauthorized access. Any system failure or accident that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption to our business. We may also incur additional costs to remedy damages caused by such disruptions. Any compromise of our security could also result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, unauthorized access to information of ours and others, significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, loss or misuse of the information and a loss of confidence in our security measures, which could harm our business.. We could also be negatively impacted by similar disruptions to the operations of our vendors or outsourced service providers.. -. 9. -. Risks Related to the Real Estate Industry. Our net earnings available for investment or distribution to shareholders and unitholders could decrease as a result of factors related to the ownership and operation of commercial real estate, many of which are outside of our control.. Our business is subject to the risks incident to the ownership and operation of commercial real estate, many of which involve circumstances not within our control. Such risks include the following:. • Changes in the general economic climate;. • The availability of capital on favorable terms, or at all;. • Increases in interest rates;. • Local conditions such as oversupply of property or a reduction in demand;. • Competition for tenants;. • Changes in market rental rates;. • Delay or inability to collect rent from tenants who are bankrupt, insolvent or otherwise unwilling or unable to pay;. • Difficulty in leasing or re-leasing space quickly or on favorable terms;. • Costs associated with periodically renovating, repairing and reletting rental space;. • Our ability to provide adequate maintenance and insurance on our properties;. • Our ability to control variable operating costs;. • Changes in government regulations; and. • Potential liability under, and changes in, environmental, zoning, tax and other laws.. Any one or more of these factors could result in a reduction in our net earnings available for investment or distribution to shareholders and unitholders.. Many real estate costs are fixed, even if income from properties decreases.. Our financial results depend on leasing space in our real estate to tenants on terms favorable to us. Our income and funds available for distribution to our shareholders and unitholders will decrease if a significant number of our tenants cannot meet their lease obligations to us or we are unable to lease properties on favorable terms. In addition, if a tenant does not pay its rent, we may not be able to enforce our rights as landlord without delays and we may incur substantial legal costs. Costs associated with real estate investment, such as real estate taxes, insurance maintenance costs and our debt service payments, generally are not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in income from the investment. As a result, we may have a reduction in our net earnings available for investment or distribution to our shareholders and unitholders.. Our real estate development activities are subject to risks particular to development.. We continue to selectively develop new, pre-leased properties for rental operations in our existing markets when accretive returns are present. These development activities generally require various government and other approvals, which we may not receive. In addition, we also are subject to the following risks associated with development activities:. • Unsuccessful development opportunities could result in direct expenses to us;. -. 10. -. • Construction costs of a project may exceed original estimates, possibly making the project less profitable than originally estimated, or possibly unprofitable;. • Time required to complete the construction of a project or to lease up the completed project may be greater than originally anticipated, thereby adversely affecting our cash flow and liquidity;. • Occupancy rates and rents of a completed project may not be sufficient to make the project profitable; and. • Favorable sources to fund our development activities may not be available.. We may be unsuccessful in operating completed real estate projects.. We face the risk that the real estate projects we develop or acquire will not perform in accordance with our expectations. This risk exists because of factors such as the following:. • Prices paid for acquired facilities are based upon a series of market judgments; and. • Costs of any improvements required to bring an acquired facility up to standards to establish the market position intended for that facility might exceed budgeted costs.. As a result, we may develop or acquire projects that are not profitable.. We are exposed to the risks of defaults by tenants.. Any of our tenants may experience a downturn in their businesses that may weaken their financial condition. In the event of default or the insolvency of a significant number of our tenants, we may experience a substantial loss of rental revenue and/or delays in collecting rent and incur substantial costs in enforcing our rights as landlord. If a tenant files for bankruptcy protection, a court could allow the tenant to reject and terminate its lease with us. Our income and distributable cash flow would be adversely affected if a significant number of our tenants became unable to meet their obligations to us, became insolvent or declared bankruptcy.. We may be unable to renew leases or relet space.. When our tenants decide not to renew their leases upon their expiration, we may not be able to relet the space. Even if our tenants do renew or we are able to relet the space, the terms of renewal or reletting (including the cost of renovations, if necessary) may be less favorable than current lease terms. If we are unable to promptly renew the leases or relet the space, or if the rental rates upon such renewal or reletting are significantly lower than current rates, then our income and distributable cash flow would be adversely affected, especially if we were unable to lease a significant amount of the space vacated by tenants in our properties.. Our insurance coverage on our properties may be inadequate.. We maintain comprehensive insurance on each of our facilities, including property, liability and environmental coverage. We believe this coverage is of the type and amount customarily obtained for real property. However, there are certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as hurricanes, earthquakes and floods or acts of war or terrorism that may be uninsurable or not economically insurable. We use our discretion when determining amounts, coverage limits and deductibles for insurance. These terms are determined based on retaining an acceptable level of risk at a reasonable cost. This may result in insurance coverage that in the event of a substantial loss would not be sufficient to pay the full current replacement cost of the damaged assets. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations, acts of a governmental authority and other factors also may make it unfeasible to collect insurance proceeds to replace a facility after it has been damaged or destroyed. If an uninsured or underinsured loss occurred, we could lose both our investment in and anticipated profits and cash flow from a property, and we would continue to be obligated on any mortgage indebtedness or other obligations related to the property. We are also subject to the risk that our insurance providers may be unwilling or unable to pay our claims when made.. -. 11. -. Our acquisition and disposition activity may lead to long-term dilution.. Our asset strategy is to increase our investment concentration in the industrial real estate product type and further diversify our geographic presence.  There can be no assurance that we will be able to execute our strategy or that our execution of such strategy will lead to improved results.. Acquired properties may expose us to unknown liability.. From time to time, we may acquire properties subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, with respect to unknown liabilities. As a result, if a liability were asserted against us based upon ownership of those properties, we might have to pay substantial sums to settle or contest it, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow. Unknown liabilities with respect to acquired properties might include:. • liabilities for clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination;. • claims by tenants, vendors or other persons against the former owners of the properties;. • liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business; and. • claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties.. We could be exposed to significant environmental liabilities as a result of conditions of which we currently are not aware.. As an owner and operator of real property, we may be liable under various federal, state and local laws for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous substances released on or in our property. Such laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release of the hazardous substances. In addition, we could have greater difficulty in selling real estate on which hazardous substances were present or in obtaining borrowings using such real estate as collateral. It is our general policy to have Phase I environmental audits performed for all of our properties and land by qualified environmental consultants at the time of purchase. These Phase I environmental audits have not revealed any environmental liability that would have a material adverse effect on our business. However, a Phase I environmental audit does not involve invasive procedures such as soil sampling or ground water analysis, and we cannot be sure that the Phase I environmental audits did not fail to reveal a significant environmental liability or that a prior owner did not create a material environmental condition on our properties or land which has not yet been discovered. We could also incur environmental liability as a result of future uses or conditions of such real estate or changes in applicable environmental laws.. We are exposed to the potential impacts of future climate change and climate-change related risks.. We are exposed to potential physical risks from possible future changes in climate. Our properties may be exposed to rare catastrophic weather events, such as severe storms and/or floods. If the frequency of extreme weather events increases due to climate change, our exposure to these events could increase.. We do not currently consider that we are exposed to regulatory risk related to climate change. However, we may be adversely impacted as a real estate developer in the future by stricter energy efficiency standards for buildings.. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure. If the General Partner were to cease to qualify as a REIT, it would lose significant tax benefits.. The General Partner intends to continue to operate so as to qualify as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"). Qualification as a REIT provides significant tax advantages to the General Partner. However, in order for the General Partner to continue to qualify as a REIT, it must satisfy numerous requirements established under highly technical and complex Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. Satisfaction of these requirements also depends on various factual circumstances not entirely within our control. The fact that the General Partner holds its assets through the Partnership further. -. 12. -. complicates the application of the REIT requirements. Even a technical or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize the General Partner's REIT status. Although we believe that the General Partner can continue to operate so as to qualify as a REIT, we cannot offer any assurance that it will continue to do so or that legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions will not significantly change the qualification requirements or the federal income tax consequences of qualification. If the General Partner were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, it would have the following effects:. • The General Partner would not be allowed a deduction for dividends distributed to shareholders and would be subject to federal corporate income tax (and any applicable state and local income taxes) on its taxable income at regular corporate income tax rates;. • Unless the General Partner was entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, it would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which it ceased to qualify as a REIT;. • The General Partner's net earnings available for investment or distribution to its shareholders would decrease due to the additional tax liability for the year or years involved; and. • The General Partner would no longer be required to make any distributions to shareholders in order to qualify as a REIT.. As such, the General Partner's failure to qualify as a REIT would likely have a significant adverse effect on the value of the General Partner's securities and, consequently, the Partnership's Units.. REIT distribution requirements limit the amount of cash we have available for other business purposes, including amounts that we need to fund our future capital needs.. To maintain its qualification as a REIT under the Code, the General Partner must annually distribute to its shareholders at least 90% of its REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends-paid deduction and excluding net capital gains. The General Partner intends to continue to make distributions to its shareholders to comply with the 90% distribution requirement. However, this requirement limits our ability to accumulate capital for use for other business purposes. If we do not have sufficient cash or other liquid assets to meet the distribution requirements of the General Partner, we may have to borrow funds or sell properties on adverse terms in order to meet the distribution requirements. If the General Partner fails to satisfy the distribution requirement, it would cease to qualify as a REIT.. U.S. federal income tax treatment of REITs and investments in REITs may change in a manner that could adversely affect us or shareholders.. Legislative, regulatory or administrative changes could be enacted or promulgated at any time, either prospectively or with retroactive effect, and may adversely affect us and/or shareholders.. On December 22, 2017, tax legislation commonly referred to as the 2017 Tax Act was signed into law, generally applying in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017. The 2017 Tax Act makes significant changes to the U.S. federal income tax rules for taxation of individuals and corporations. In the case of individuals, the income tax brackets are adjusted, the top federal income rate is reduced to 37%, special rules reduce taxation of certain income earned through pass-through entities and reduce the top effective rate applicable to ordinary dividends from REITs to 29.6% (through a 20% deduction for ordinary REIT dividends received in combination with the 37% top rate), and various deductions are eliminated or limited. Most of the changes applicable to individuals are temporary and apply only to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 and before January 1, 2026. The corporate income tax rate is reduced to 21%, the corporate alternative minimum tax is repealed, and various changes, including restrictions on certain deductions, may affect the computation of the taxable income of the General Partner and its subsidiaries.. While the changes in the 2017 Tax Act generally appear to be favorable with respect to REITs, the extensive changes to non-REIT provisions in the Code may have unanticipated effects on us or on shareholders. Moreover,. -. 13. -. Congressional leaders have recognized that the process of adopting extensive tax legislation in a short amount of time without hearings and substantial time for review is likely to have led to drafting errors, issues needing clarification and unintended consequences that will have to be revisited in subsequent tax legislation. At this point, it is not clear if or when Congress will address these issues or when the Internal Revenue Service will issue administrative guidance on the changes made in the 2017 Tax Act.. We are subject to certain provisions that could discourage change-of-control transactions, which may reduce the likelihood of the General Partner's shareholders receiving a control premium for their shares.. Indiana anti-takeover legislation and certain provisions in our governing documents, as we discuss below, may discourage potential acquirers from pursuing a change-of-control transaction with us. As a result, the General Partner's shareholders may be less likely to receive a control premium for their shares.. Ownership Restriction.  Subject to certain exceptions, the General Partner's charter provides that no person or entity may beneficially own, or be deemed to own by virtue of the applicable constructive ownership provisions of the Code, more than 9.8% (in value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of the General Partner's outstanding common stock or 9.8% in value of its outstanding stock.. Unissued Preferred Stock. The General Partner's charter permits its board of directors to classify unissued preferred stock by setting the rights and preferences of the shares at the time of issuance. This power enables the General Partner's board to adopt a shareholder rights plan, also known as a poison pill. Although the General Partner has repealed its previously existing poison pill and its current board of directors has adopted a policy not to adopt a shareholder rights plan without shareholder approval, the General Partner's board can change this policy at any time. The adoption of a poison pill would discourage a potential bidder from acquiring a significant position in the General Partner without the approval of its board.. Business-Combination Provisions of Indiana Law. The General Partner has not opted out of the business-combination provisions of the Indiana Business Corporation Law. As a result, potential bidders may have to negotiate with the General Partner's board of directors before acquiring 10% of its stock. Without securing board approval of the proposed business combination before crossing the 10% ownership threshold, a bidder would not be permitted to complete a business combination for five years after becoming a 10% shareholder. Even after the five-year period, a business combination with the significant shareholder would either be required to meet certain per share price minimums as set forth in the Indiana Business Corporation Law or to receive the approval of a majority of the disinterested shareholders.. Control-Share-Acquisition Provisions of Indiana Law. The General Partner has not opted out of the provisions of the Indiana Business Corporation Law regarding acquisitions of control shares. Therefore, those who acquire a significant block (at least 20%) of the General Partner's shares may only vote a portion of their shares unless its other shareholders vote to accord full voting rights to the acquiring person. Moreover, if the other shareholders vote to give full voting rights with respect to the control shares and the acquiring person has acquired a majority of the General Partner's outstanding shares, the other shareholders would be entitled to special dissenters' rights.. Supermajority Voting Provisions. The General Partner's charter prohibits business combinations or significant disposition transactions with a holder of 10% of its shares unless:. • The holders of 80% of the General Partner's outstanding shares of capital stock approve the transaction;. • The transaction has been approved by three-fourths of those directors who served on the General Partner's board before the shareholder became a 10% owner; or. • The significant shareholder complies with the \"fair price\" provisions of the General Partner's charter.. Among the transactions with large shareholders requiring the supermajority shareholder approval are dispositions of assets with a value greater than or equal to $1,000,000 and business combinations.. Operating Partnership Provisions. The limited partnership agreement of the Partnership contains provisions that could discourage change-of-control transactions, including a requirement that holders of at least 90% of the outstanding Common Units approve:. -. 14. -. • Any voluntary sale, exchange, merger, consolidation or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Partnership in one or more transactions other than a disposition occurring upon a financing or refinancing of the Partnership;. • The General Partner's merger, consolidation or other business combination with another entity unless after the transaction substantially all of the assets of the surviving entity are contributed to the Partnership in exchange for Common Units;. • The General Partner's assignment of its interests in the Partnership other than to one of its wholly owned subsidiaries; and. • Any reclassification or recapitalization or change of outstanding shares of the General Partner's common stock other than certain changes in par value, stock splits, stock dividends or combinations.. We are dependent on key personnel.. The General Partner's executive officers and other senior officers have a significant role in the success of our Company. Our ability to retain our management group or to attract suitable replacements should any members of the management group leave our Company is dependent on the competitive nature of the employment market. The loss of services from key members of the management group or a limitation in their availability could adversely impact our financial condition and cash flow. Further, such a loss could be negatively perceived in the capital markets."
