[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. Risks related to our business and industry. Our financial results are affected by the operating results of our franchisees.. We receive a substantial majority of our revenues in the form of royalties, which are generally based on a percentage of gross sales at franchised restaurants, rent, and other fees from franchisees. Accordingly, our financial results are to a large extent dependent upon the operational and financial success of our franchisees. If sales trends or economic conditions worsen for franchisees, their financial results may deteriorate and our royalty, rent, and other revenues may decline and our accounts receivable and related allowance for doubtful accounts may increase. In addition, if our franchisees fail to renew their franchise agreements, our royalty revenues may decrease which in turn may materially and adversely affect our business and operating results.. Our franchisees could take actions that could harm our business.. Our franchisees are contractually obligated to operate their restaurants in accordance with the operations, safety, and health standards set forth in our agreements with them. However, franchisees are independent third parties whom we do not control. The franchisees own, operate, and oversee the daily operations of their restaurants and have sole control over all employee and other workforce decisions. As a result, the ultimate success and quality of any franchised restaurant rests with the franchisee. If franchisees do not successfully operate restaurants in a manner consistent with required standards, franchise fees paid to us and royalty income will be adversely affected and brand image and reputation could be harmed, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results.. Although we believe we generally enjoy a positive working relationship with the vast majority of our franchisees, active and/or potential disputes with franchisees could damage our brand reputation and/or our relationships with the broader franchisee group.. Our success depends substantially on the value of our brands.. Our success is dependent in large part upon our ability to maintain and enhance the value of our brands, our customers' connection to our brands, and a positive relationship with our franchisees. Brand value can be severely damaged even by isolated incidents, particularly if the incidents receive considerable negative publicity or result in litigation. Some of these incidents may relate to the way we manage our relationship with our franchisees, our growth strategies, our development efforts in domestic and foreign markets, or the ordinary course of our, or our franchisees', business. Other incidents may arise from events that are or may be beyond our ability to control and may damage our brands, such as actions taken (or not taken) by one or more franchisees or their employees relating to health, safety, welfare, or otherwise; litigation and claims; security breaches or other fraudulent activities associated with our electronic payment systems; and illegal activity targeted at us or others. Consumer demand for our products and our brands' value could diminish significantly if any such incidents or other matters erode consumer confidence in us or our products, which would likely result in lower sales and, ultimately, lower royalty income, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results.. - 10-. Incidents involving food-borne illnesses, food tampering, or food contamination involving our brands or our supply chain could create negative publicity and significantly harm our operating results. While we and our franchisees dedicate substantial resources to food safety matters to enable customers to enjoy safe, quality food products, food safety events, including instances of food-borne illness (such as salmonella or E. Coli), have occurred in the food industry in the past, and could occur in the future.. Instances or reports, whether true or not, of food-safety issues, such as food-borne illnesses, food tampering, food contamination or mislabeling, either during the growing, manufacturing, packaging, storing, or preparation of products, have in the past severely injured the reputations of companies in the quick-service restaurant sectors and could affect us as well. Any report linking us, our franchisees, or our suppliers to food-borne illnesses or food tampering, contamination, mislabeling, or other food-safety issues could damage the value of our brands immediately and severely hurt sales of our products and possibly lead to product liability claims, litigation (including class actions), or other damages.. In addition, food safety incidents, whether or not involving our brands, could result in negative publicity for the industry or market segments in which we operate. Increased use of social media could create and/or amplify the effects of negative publicity. This negative publicity may reduce demand for our products and could result in a decrease in guest traffic to our restaurants as consumers shift their preferences to our competitors or to other products or food types. A decrease in traffic as a result of these health concerns or negative publicity could materially and adversely affect our brands, our business, and our stock price.. The quick service restaurant segment is highly competitive, and competition could lower our revenues.. The QSR segment of the restaurant industry is intensely competitive. The beverage and food products sold by our franchisees compete directly against products sold at other QSRs, local and regional beverage and food operations, specialty beverage and food retailers, supermarkets, and wholesale suppliers, many bearing recognized brand names and having significant customer loyalty. In addition to the prevailing baseline level of competition, major market players in noncompeting industries may choose to enter the restaurant industry. Key competitive factors include the number and location of restaurants, quality and speed of service, attractiveness of facilities, effectiveness of advertising, marketing, and operational programs, price, demographic patterns and trends, consumer preferences and spending patterns, menu diversification, health or dietary preferences and perceptions, and new product development. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than us, which may provide them with a competitive advantage. In addition, we compete within the restaurant industry and the QSR segment not only for customers but also for qualified franchisees. We cannot guarantee the retention of any, including the top-performing, franchisees in the future, or that we will maintain the ability to attract, retain, and motivate sufficient numbers of franchisees of the same caliber, which could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. If we are unable to maintain our competitive position, we could experience lower demand for products, downward pressure on prices, the loss of market share, and the inability to attract, or loss of, qualified franchisees, which could result in lower franchise fees and royalty income, and materially and adversely affect our business and operating results.. If we or our franchisees or licensees are unable to protect our customers' credit card data and other personal information, we or our franchisees could be exposed to data loss, litigation, and liability, and our reputation could be significantly harmed.. Data protection is increasingly demanding and the use of electronic payment methods and collection of other personal information exposes us and our franchisees to increased risk of privacy and/or security breaches as well as other risks. In connection with credit card transactions in-store and online, we and our franchisees collect and transmit confidential credit card information by way of retail networks. Additionally, we collect and store personal information from individuals, including our customers, franchisees, and employees. We rely on commercially available systems, software, tools, and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmitting, and storing such information. The failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, or a breach in security of these systems, including through cyber terrorism, could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results.. Further, the standards for systems currently used for transmission and approval of electronic payment transactions, and the technology utilized in electronic payment themselves, all of which can put electronic payment data at risk, are determined and controlled by the payment card industry, not by us. In addition, our employees, franchisees, contractors, or third parties with whom we do business or to whom we outsource business operations may attempt to circumvent our security measures in order to misappropriate such information, and may purposefully or inadvertently cause a breach involving such information. Third parties may have the technology or know-how to breach the security of the personal information collected, stored, or transmitted by us or our franchisees, and our respective security measures, as well as those of our technology vendors, may not effectively prohibit others from obtaining improper access to this information. Advances in computer and software capabilities and encryption technology, new tools, and other developments may increase the risk of such a breach. If a person is able to. - 11-. circumvent our data security measures or that of third parties with whom we do business, including our franchisees, he or she could destroy or steal valuable information or disrupt our operations. Any security breach could expose us to risks of data loss, litigation, liability, and could seriously disrupt our operations. Any resulting negative publicity could significantly harm our reputation and could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results.. Sub-franchisees could take actions that could harm our business and that of our master franchisees.. In certain of our international markets, we enter into agreements with master franchisees that permit the master franchisee to develop and operate restaurants in defined geographic areas. As permitted by our master franchisee agreements, certain master franchisees elect to sub-franchise rights to develop and operate restaurants in the geographic area covered by the master franchisee agreement. Our master franchisee agreements contractually obligate our master franchisees to operate their restaurants in accordance with specified operations, safety, and health standards and also require that any sub-franchise agreement contain similar requirements. However, we are not party to the agreements with the sub-franchisees and, as a result, are dependent upon our master franchisees to enforce these standards with respect to sub-franchised restaurants. As a result, the ultimate success and quality of any sub-franchised restaurant rests with the master franchisee. If sub-franchisees do not successfully operate their restaurants in a manner consistent with required standards, franchise fees and royalty income paid to the applicable master franchisee and, ultimately, to us could be adversely affected and our brand image and reputation may be harmed, which could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results.. We cannot predict the impact that the following may have on our business: (i) new or improved technologies, (ii) alternative methods of delivery, or (iii) changes in consumer behavior facilitated by these technologies and alternative methods of delivery.. Advances in technologies or alternative methods of delivery, including advances in vending machine technology, direct home delivery of on-line orders and home coffee makers, or certain changes in consumer behavior driven by these or other technologies and methods of delivery could have a negative effect on our business. Moreover, technology and consumer offerings continue to develop, and we expect that new or enhanced technologies and consumer offerings will be available in the future. We may pursue certain of those technologies and consumer offerings if we believe they offer a sustainable customer proposition and can be successfully integrated into our business model. However, we cannot predict consumer acceptance of these delivery channels or their impact on our business. In addition, our competitors, some of whom have greater resources than us, may be able to benefit from changes in technologies or consumer acceptance of alternative methods of delivery, which could harm our competitive position. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully respond to changing consumer preferences, including with respect to new technologies and alternative methods of delivery, or to effectively adjust our product mix, service offerings, and marketing and merchandising initiatives for products and services that address, and anticipate advances in, technology and market trends. If we are not able to successfully respond to these challenges, our business, financial condition, and operating results could be harmed.. Economic conditions adversely affecting consumer discretionary spending may negatively impact our business and operating results.. We believe that our franchisees' sales, customer traffic, and profitability are strongly correlated to consumer discretionary spending, which is influenced by general economic conditions, unemployment levels, and the availability of discretionary income. Our franchisees' sales are dependent upon discretionary spending by consumers; any reduction in sales at franchised restaurants will result in lower royalty payments from franchisees to us and adversely impact our profitability. In an economic downturn our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, the pace of new restaurant openings may be slowed and restaurants may be forced to close, reducing the restaurant base from which we derive royalty income.. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition.. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 30, 2017, we had total indebtedness of approximately $3.1 billion under our securitized debt facility, excluding $32.3 million of undrawn letters of credit and $117.7 million of unused commitments.. Subject to the limits contained in the agreements governing our securitized debt facility, we may be able to incur substantial additional debt from time to time to finance capital expenditures, investments, acquisitions, or for other purposes. If we do incur substantial additional debt, the risks related to our high level of debt could intensify. Specifically, our high level of indebtedness could have important consequences, including:. • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund capital expenditures, investments, acquisitions, or other general corporate requirements;. - 12-. • requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow to be dedicated to payments to service our indebtedness instead of other purposes, thereby reducing the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures, investments, acquisitions, and other general corporate purposes;. • increasing our vulnerability to and the potential impact of adverse changes in general economic, industry, and competitive conditions;. • limiting our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in the industry in which we compete;. • placing us at a disadvantage compared to other, less leveraged competitors or competitors with comparable debt at more favorable interest rates; and. • increasing our costs of borrowing.. In addition, the financial and other covenants we agreed to with our lenders may limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness, make investments, and engage in other transactions, and the leverage may cause other potential lenders to be less willing to loan funds to us in the future.. We may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our significant debt service obligations, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Our ability to make principal and interest payments on and to refinance our indebtedness will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, and other factors that are beyond our control. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, in the amounts projected or at all, or if future borrowings are not available to us under our variable funding notes in amounts sufficient to fund our other liquidity needs, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. If we cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations to make scheduled principal amortization and interest payments on our debt obligations in the future, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity, sell assets, delay capital expenditures, or seek additional equity investments. If we are unable to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all or to effect any other action relating to our indebtedness on satisfactory terms or at all, our business may be harmed.. The terms of our securitized debt financing of certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries have restrictive terms and our failure to comply with any of these terms could put us in default, which would have an adverse effect on our business and prospects.. Unless and until we repay all outstanding borrowings under our securitized debt facility, we will remain subject to the restrictive terms of these borrowings. The securitized debt facility, under which certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries issued and guaranteed fixed rate notes and variable funding notes, contain a number of covenants, with the most significant financial covenant being a debt service coverage calculation. These covenants limit the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to, among other things:. • sell assets;. • alter the business we conduct;. • engage in mergers, acquisitions, and other business combinations;. • declare dividends or redeem or repurchase capital stock;. • incur, assume, or permit to exist additional indebtedness or guarantees;. • make loans and investments;. • incur liens; and. • enter into transactions with affiliates.. The securitized debt facility also requires us to maintain specified financial ratios. Our ability to meet these financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not satisfy such a test. A breach of these covenants could result in a rapid amortization event or default under the securitized debt facility. If amounts owed under the securitized debt facility are accelerated because of a default and we are unable to pay such amounts, the investors may have the right to assume control of substantially all of the securitized assets.. - 13-. If we are unable to refinance or repay amounts under the securitized debt facility prior to the expiration of the applicable term, our cash flow would be directed to the repayment of the securitized debt and, other than management fees sufficient to cover minimal selling, general and administrative expenses, would not be available for operating our business.. No assurance can be given that any refinancing or additional financing will be possible when needed or that we will be able to negotiate acceptable terms. In addition, our access to capital is affected by prevailing conditions in the financial and capital markets and other factors beyond our control. There can be no assurance that market conditions will be favorable at the times that we require new or additional financing.. The indenture governing the securitized debt restricts the cash flow from the entities subject to the securitization to any of our other entities and upon the occurrence of certain events, cash flow would be further restricted.. In the event that a rapid amortization event occurs under the indenture governing the securitized debt (including, without limitation, upon an event of default under the indenture or the failure to repay the securitized debt at the end of the applicable term), the funds available to us would be reduced or eliminated, which would in turn reduce our ability to operate or grow our business.. Infringement, misappropriation, or dilution of our intellectual property could harm our business.. We regard our Dunkin' Donuts® and Baskin-Robbins® trademarks as having significant value and as being important factors in the marketing of our brands. We have also obtained trademark protection for the trademarks associated with several of our product offerings and advertising slogans, including \"America Runs on Dunkin' ®\". We believe that these and other intellectual property, including certain patents and trade secrets, are valuable assets that are critical to our success. We rely on a combination of protections provided by contracts, as well as copyright, patent, trademark, and other laws, such as trade secret and unfair competition laws, to protect our intellectual property from infringement, misappropriation, or dilution. We have registered certain trademarks and service marks and have other trademark and service mark registration applications pending in the United States and foreign jurisdictions. However, not all of the trademarks or service marks that we currently use have been registered in all of the countries in which we do business, and they may never be registered in all of those countries.. Although we monitor our intellectual property, especially our trademark portfolio, both internally and through external search agents and impose an obligation on franchisees to notify us upon learning of potential infringement, there can be no assurance that we will be able to adequately maintain, enforce, and protect our trademarks or other intellectual property rights. We are aware of names and marks similar to our service marks being used by other persons. Although we believe such uses will not adversely affect us, further or currently unknown unauthorized uses or other infringement of our trademarks or service marks could diminish the value of our brands and may adversely affect our business. The same is true with regards to our intellectual property. Namely, that unauthorized uses of such intellectual property, including patents, trade secrets or proprietary software, or other infringement thereof, by third parties may adversely affect our business. Effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which we have or intend to open or franchise a restaurant or license our intellectual property. Failure to adequately protect our intellectual property rights could damage our brands and impair our ability to compete effectively. Even where we have effectively secured statutory protection for our trade secrets and other intellectual property, our competitors may misappropriate our intellectual property and our employees, consultants, and suppliers may breach their contractual obligations not to reveal our confidential information, including trade secrets. Although we have taken measures to protect our intellectual property, there can be no assurance that these protections will be adequate or that third parties will not independently develop products or concepts that are substantially similar to ours. Despite our efforts, it may be possible for third-parties to reverse engineer, otherwise obtain, copy, and use software or information that we regard as proprietary. Furthermore, defending or enforcing our trademark rights, branding practices, and other intellectual property, and seeking an injunction and/or compensation for misappropriation of confidential information, could result in the expenditure of significant resources and divert the attention of management, which in turn may materially and adversely affect our business and operating results.. Our brands may be limited or diluted through franchisee and third-party activity.. Although we monitor and restrict franchisee activities through our franchise and license agreements, franchisees or third parties may refer to or make statements about our brands that do not make proper use of our trademarks or required designations, that improperly alter trademarks or branding, or that are critical of our brands or place our brands in a context that may tarnish their reputation. This may result in dilution or tarnishment of our intellectual property. It is not possible for us to obtain registrations for all possible variations of our branding in all territories where we operate. Franchisees, licensees, or third parties may seek to register or obtain registration for domain names and trademarks involving localizations, variations, and versions of certain branding tools, and these activities may limit our ability to obtain or use such rights in such territories. Franchisee noncompliance with the terms and conditions of our franchise or license agreements may reduce the overall goodwill of our brands, whether through the failure to meet health and safety standards, engage in quality control or maintain product. - 14-. consistency, or through the participation in improper or objectionable business practices.. Moreover, unauthorized third parties may use our intellectual property to trade on the goodwill of our brands, resulting in consumer confusion or dilution. Any reduction of our brands' goodwill, consumer confusion, or dilution is likely to impact sales, and could materially and adversely impact our business and operating results.. We are and may become subject to third-party infringement claims or challenges to the validity of our intellectual property.. We are and may, in the future, become the subject of claims for infringement, misappropriation, or other violation of intellectual property rights, which may or not be unfounded, from owners of intellectual property in areas where our franchisees operate or where we intend to conduct operations, including in foreign jurisdictions. Such claims, whether or not they have any merit, could harm our image, our brands, our competitive position, or our ability to expand our operations into other jurisdictions and cause us to incur significant costs related to defense or settlement. If such claims were decided against us, or a third party indemnified by us pursuant to license terms, we could be required to pay damages, develop or adopt non-infringing products or services, or acquire a license to the intellectual property that is the subject of the asserted claim, which license may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. The attendant expenses could require the expenditure of additional capital, and there would be expenses associated with the defense of any infringement, misappropriation, or other third-party claims, and there could be attendant negative publicity, even if ultimately decided in our favor.. Growth into new territories may be hindered or blocked by pre-existing third-party rights.. We act to obtain and protect our intellectual property rights we need to operate successfully in those territories where we operate. Certain intellectual property rights including rights in trademarks are national in character, and are obtained on a country-by-country basis by the first person to obtain protection through use or registration in that country in connection with specified products and services. As our business grows, we continuously evaluate the potential for expansion into new territories and new products and services. There is a risk with each expansion that growth will be limited or unavailable due to blocking pre-existing third-party intellectual property rights.. The restaurant industry is affected by consumer preferences and perceptions. Changes in these preferences and perceptions may lessen the demand for our products, which could reduce sales by our franchisees and reduce our royalty revenues.. The restaurant industry is affected by changes in consumer tastes, national, regional, and local economic conditions, and demographic trends. For instance, if prevailing health or dietary preferences cause consumers to avoid donuts and other products we offer in favor of foods that are perceived as healthier, our franchisees' sales would suffer, resulting in lower royalty payments to us, and our business and operating results would be harmed.. If we fail to successfully implement our growth strategy, which includes opening new domestic and international restaurants, our ability to increase our revenues and operating profits could be adversely affected.. Our growth strategy relies in part upon new restaurant development by existing and new franchisees. We and our franchisees face many challenges in opening new restaurants, including:. • availability of financing;. • selection and availability of suitable restaurant locations;. • competition for restaurant sites;. • negotiation of acceptable lease and financing terms;. • securing required domestic or foreign governmental permits and approvals;. • consumer tastes in new geographic regions and acceptance of our products;. • employment and training of qualified personnel;. • impact of inclement weather, natural disasters, and other acts of nature; and. • general economic and business conditions.. In particular, because the majority of our new restaurant development is funded by franchisee investment, our growth strategy is dependent on our franchisees' (or prospective franchisees') ability to access funds to finance such development. We do not provide our franchisees with direct financing and therefore their ability to access borrowed funds generally depends on their independent relationships with various financial institutions. If our franchisees (or prospective franchisees) are not able to obtain financing at commercially reasonable rates, or at all, they may be unwilling or unable to invest in the development of. - 15-. new restaurants, and our future growth could be adversely affected.. To the extent our franchisees are unable to open new restaurants as we anticipate, our revenue growth would come primarily from growth in comparable store sales. Our failure to add a significant number of new restaurants or grow comparable store sales would adversely affect our ability to increase our revenues and operating income and could materially and adversely harm our business and operating results.. Increases in commodity prices may negatively affect payments from our franchisees and licensees.. Coffee and other commodity prices are subject to substantial price fluctuations, stemming from variations in weather patterns, shifting political or economic conditions in coffee-producing countries, potential taxes or fees on certain imported goods, and delays in the supply chain. If commodity prices rise, franchisees may experience reduced sales, due to decreased consumer demand at retail prices that have been raised to offset increased commodity prices, which may reduce franchisee profitability. Any such decline in franchisee sales will reduce our royalty income, which in turn may materially and adversely affect our business and operating results.. Our joint ventures in Japan and South Korea, as well as our licensees in Russia and India, manufacture ice cream products independently. The joint ventures in Japan and South Korea own manufacturing facilities in their countries of operation. The revenues derived from these joint ventures differ fundamentally from those of other types of franchise arrangements in the system because the income that we receive from the joint ventures in Japan and South Korea is based in part on the profitability, rather than the gross sales, of the restaurants operated by these joint ventures. Accordingly, in the event that the joint ventures in Japan or South Korea experience staple ingredient price increases that adversely affect the profitability of the restaurants operated by these joint ventures, that decrease in profitability would reduce distributions by these joint ventures to us, which in turn could materially and adversely impact our business and operating results.. Shortages of coffee or milk could adversely affect our revenues.. If coffee or milk consumption continues to increase worldwide or there is a disruption in the supply of coffee or milk due to natural disasters, political unrest, or other calamities, the global supply of these commodities may fail to meet demand. If coffee or milk demand is not met, franchisees may experience reduced sales which, in turn, would reduce our royalty income. Additionally, if milk demand is not met, we may not be able to purchase and distribute ice cream products to our international franchisees, which would reduce our sales of ice cream and other products. Such reductions in our royalty income and sales of ice cream and other products may materially and adversely affect our business and operating results.. We and our franchisees rely on information technology and computer systems to process transactions and manage our business, and a disruption or a failure of such systems or technology could harm our ability to effectively manage our business.. Network and information technology systems are integral to our business. We utilize various computer systems, including our FAST System and our EFTPay System, which are customized, web-based systems. The FAST System is the system by which our U.S. and Canadian franchisees report their weekly sales and pay their corresponding royalty fees and required advertising fund contributions. When sales are reported by a U.S. or Canadian franchisee, a withdrawal for the authorized amount is initiated from the franchisee's bank after 12 days (from the week ending or month ending date). The FAST System is critical to our ability to accurately track sales and compute royalties due from our U.S. and Canadian franchisees. The EFTPay System is used by our U.S. and Canadian franchisees to make payments against open, non-fee invoices (i.e., all invoices except royalty and advertising funds). When a franchisee selects an invoice and submits the payment, on the following day a withdrawal for the selected amount is initiated from the franchisee's bank. Additionally, an increasing number of transactions in our restaurants are processed through our mobile application. Despite the implementation of security measures, our systems are subject to damage and/or interruption as a result of power outages, computer and network failures, computer viruses and other disruptive software, security breaches, terrorist attacks, catastrophic events, and improper usage by employees. Such events could result in a material disruption in operations, a need for a costly repair, upgrade, or replacement of systems, or a decrease in, or in the collection of, royalties paid to us by our franchisees. To the extent that any disruption or security breach were to result in a loss of, or damage to, our data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we could incur a liability which could materially affect our results of operations.. Interruptions in the supply of product to franchisees and licensees could adversely affect our revenues.. In order to maintain quality-control standards and consistency among restaurants, we require through our franchise agreements that our franchisees obtain food and other supplies from preferred suppliers approved in advance. In this regard, we and our franchisees depend on a group of suppliers for ingredients, foodstuffs, beverages, and disposable serving instruments including, but not limited to, Rich Products Corp., Dean Foods Co., The Coca-Cola Company, and Silver Pail Dairy, Ltd. as well as four. - 16-. primary coffee roasters and two primary donut mix suppliers. In 2017, we and our franchisees purchased products from nearly 500 approved domestic suppliers, with approximately 11 of such suppliers providing half, based on dollar volume, of all products purchased domestically. We look to approve multiple suppliers for most products, and require any single sourced supplier, such as The Coca-Cola Company, to have contingency plans in place to ensure continuity of supply. In addition we believe that, if necessary, we could obtain readily available alternative sources of supply for each product that we currently source through a single supplier. To facilitate the efficiency of our franchisees' supply chain, we have historically entered into several preferred-supplier arrangements for particular food or beverage items.. The Dunkin' Donuts system is supported domestically by the franchisee-owned purchasing and distribution cooperative known as the National Distributor Commitment Program. We have a long-term agreement with the National DCP, LLC (the \"NDCP\") for the NDCP to provide substantially all of the goods needed to operate a Dunkin' Donuts restaurant in the United States. The NDCP also supplies some international markets. The NDCP aggregates the franchisee demand, sends requests for proposals to approved suppliers, and negotiates contracts for approved items. The NDCP also inventories the items in its seven regional distribution centers and ships products to franchisees at least one time per week. We do not control the NDCP and have only limited contractual rights under our agreement with the NDCP associated with supplier certification and quality assurance and protection of our intellectual property. While the NDCP maintains contingency plans with its approved suppliers and has a contingency plan for its own distribution function to restaurants, our franchisees bear risks associated with the timeliness, solvency, reputation, labor relations, freight costs, price of raw materials, and compliance with health and safety standards of each supplier (including those of our international joint ventures) including, but not limited to, risks associated with contamination to food and beverage products. We have little control over such suppliers. Disruptions in these relationships may reduce franchisee sales and, in turn, our royalty income.. Overall difficulty of suppliers (including those of certain international joint ventures) meeting franchisee product demand, interruptions in the supply chain, obstacles or delays in the process of renegotiating or renewing agreements with preferred suppliers, financial difficulties experienced by suppliers, or the deficiency, lack, or poor quality of alternative suppliers could adversely impact franchisee sales which, in turn, would reduce our royalty income and could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results.. We may not be able to recoup our expenditures on properties we sublease to franchisees.. In some locations, we may pay more rent and other amounts to third-party landlords under a prime lease than we receive from the franchisee who subleases such property. Typically, our franchisees' rent is based in part on a percentage of gross sales at the restaurant, so a downturn in gross sales would negatively affect the level of the payments we receive. Additionally, pursuant to the terms of certain prime leases we have entered into with third-party landlords, we may be required to construct or improve a property, pay taxes, maintain insurance, and comply with building codes and other applicable laws. The subleases we enter into with franchisees related to such properties typically pass through such obligations, but if a franchisee fails to perform the obligations passed through to them, we will be required to perform those obligations, resulting in an increase in our leasing and operational costs and expenses.. If the international markets in which we compete are affected by changes in political, social, legal, economic, or other factors, our business and operating results may be materially and adversely affected.. As of December 30, 2017, we had 8,819 international restaurants located in 68 foreign countries. The international operations of our franchisees may subject us to additional risks, which differ in each country in which our franchisees operate, and such risks may negatively affect our business or result in a delay in or loss of royalty income to us.. The factors impacting the international markets in which restaurants are located may include:. • recessionary or expansive trends in international markets;. • changes in foreign currency exchange rates and hyperinflation or deflation in the foreign countries in which we or our international joint ventures operate;. • the imposition of restrictions on currency conversion or the transfer of funds;. • availability of credit for our franchisees, licensees, and our international joint ventures to finance the development of new restaurants;. • increases in the taxes paid and other changes in applicable tax laws;. • legal and regulatory changes and the burdens and costs of local operators' compliance with a variety of laws, including trade restrictions and tariffs;. • interruption of the supply of product;. - 17-. • increases in anti-American sentiment and the identification of the Dunkin' Donuts brand and Baskin-Robbins brand as American brands;. • political and economic instability; and. • natural disasters, terrorist threats and/or activities, and other calamities.. Any or all of these factors may reduce distributions from our international joint ventures or other international partners and/or royalty income, which in turn may materially and adversely impact our business and operating results.. Termination of an arrangement with a master franchisee could adversely impact our revenues.. Internationally, and in limited cases domestically, we enter into relationships with \"master franchisees\" to develop and operate restaurants in defined geographic areas. Master franchisees are granted exclusivity rights with respect to larger territories than the typical franchisees, and in particular cases, expansion after minimum requirements are met is subject to the discretion of the master franchisee. In fiscal years 2017, 2016, and 2015, we derived approximately 13.3%, 14.6%, and 14.8%, respectively, of our total revenues from master franchisee arrangements. The termination of an arrangement with a master franchisee or a lack of expansion by certain master franchisees could result in the delay of the development of franchised restaurants, or an interruption in the operation of one of our brands in a particular market or markets. Any such delay or interruption would result in a delay in, or loss of, royalty income to us whether by way of delayed royalty income or delayed revenues from the sale of ice cream and other products by us to franchisees internationally, or reduced sales. Any interruption in operations due to the termination of an arrangement with a master franchisee similarly could result in lower revenues for us, particularly if we were to determine to close restaurants following the termination of an arrangement with a master franchisee.. Fluctuations in exchange rates affect our revenues.. We are subject to inherent risks attributed to operating in a global economy. Most of our revenues, costs, and debts are denominated in U.S. dollars. However, sales made by franchisees outside of the U.S. are denominated in the currency of the country in which the point of distribution is located, and this currency could become less valuable prior to calculation of our royalty payments in U.S. dollars as a result of exchange rate fluctuations. As a result, currency fluctuations could reduce our royalty income. Unfavorable currency fluctuations could result in a reduction in our revenues. Income we earn from our joint ventures is also subject to currency fluctuations. These currency fluctuations affecting our revenues and costs could adversely affect our business and operating results.. Adverse public or medical opinions about the health effects of consuming our products, whether or not accurate, could harm our brands and our business.. Some of our products contain caffeine, dairy products, sugar, other carbohydrates, fats, and other active compounds, the health effects of which are the subject of increasing public scrutiny, including the suggestion that excessive consumption of caffeine, dairy products, sugar, other carbohydrates, fats, and other active compounds can lead to a variety of adverse health effects. There has also been greater public awareness that sedentary lifestyles, combined with excessive consumption of high- carbohydrate, high-fat, or high-calorie foods, have led to a rapidly rising rate of obesity. In the United States and certain other countries, there is increasing consumer awareness of health risks, including obesity, as well as increased consumer litigation based on alleged adverse health impacts of consumption of various food products. While we offer some healthier beverage and food items, including reduced fat items and reduced sugar items, an unfavorable report on the health effects of caffeine or other compounds present in our products, or negative publicity or litigation arising from other health risks such as obesity, could significantly reduce the demand for our beverages and food products. A decrease in customer traffic as a result of these health concerns or negative publicity could materially and adversely affect our brands and our business.. We may not be able to enforce payment of fees under certain of our franchise arrangements.. In certain limited instances, a franchisee may be operating a restaurant pursuant to an unwritten franchise arrangement. Such circumstances may arise where a franchisee arrangement has expired and new or renewal agreements have yet to be executed or where the franchisee has developed and opened a restaurant but has failed to memorialize the franchisor-franchisee relationship in an executed agreement as of the opening date of such restaurant. In certain other limited instances, we may allow a franchisee in good standing to operate domestically pursuant to franchise arrangements which have expired in their normal course and have not yet been renewed. As of December 30, 2017, less than 1% of our restaurants were operating without a written agreement. There is a risk that either category of these franchise arrangements may not be enforceable under federal, state, or local laws and regulations prior to correction or if left uncorrected. In these instances, the franchise arrangements may be enforceable on the basis of custom and assent of performance. If the franchisee, however, were to neglect to remit royalty payments in a timely fashion, we may be unable to enforce the payment of such fees which, in turn, may. - 18-. materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. While we generally require franchise arrangements in foreign jurisdictions to be entered into pursuant to written franchise arrangements, subject to certain exceptions, some expired contracts, letters of intent, or oral agreements in existence may not be enforceable under local laws, which could impair our ability to collect royalty income, which in turn may materially and adversely impact our business and operating results.. Our business activities subject us to litigation risk that could affect us adversely by subjecting us to significant money damages and other remedies or by increasing our litigation expense.. In the ordinary course of business, we are the subject of complaints or litigation from franchisees, usually related to alleged breaches of contract or wrongful termination under the franchise arrangements. In addition, we are, from time to time, the subject of complaints or litigation from customers alleging illness, injury, or other food-quality, health, or operational concerns and from suppliers alleging breach of contract. We may also be subject to employee claims based on, among other things, discrimination, harassment, or wrongful termination. Finally, litigation against a franchisee or its affiliates by third parties, whether in the ordinary course of business or otherwise, may include claims against us by virtue of our relationship with the defendant-franchisee. In addition to decreasing the ability of a defendant-franchisee to make royalty payments and diverting management resources, adverse publicity resulting from such allegations may materially and adversely affect us and our brands, regardless of whether such allegations are valid or whether we are liable. Our international operations may be subject to additional risks related to litigation, including difficulties in enforcement of contractual obligations governed by foreign law due to differing interpretations of rights and obligations, compliance with multiple and potentially conflicting laws, new and potentially untested laws and judicial systems, and reduced or diminished protection of intellectual property. A substantial unsatisfied judgment against us or one of our subsidiaries could result in bankruptcy, which would materially and adversely affect our business and operating results.. Our business is subject to various laws and regulations and changes in such laws and regulations, and/or failure to comply with existing or future laws and regulations, could adversely affect us.. We are subject to state franchise registration requirements, the rules and regulations of the Federal Trade Commission (the \"FTC\"), various state laws regulating the offer and sale of franchises in the United States through the provision of franchise disclosure documents containing certain mandatory disclosures, and certain rules and requirements regulating franchising arrangements in foreign countries. Although we believe that the Franchisors' Franchise Disclosure Documents, together with any applicable state-specific versions or supplements, and franchising procedures that we use comply in all material respects with both the FTC guidelines and all applicable state laws regulating franchising in those states in which we offer new franchise arrangements, noncompliance could reduce anticipated royalty income, which in turn may materially and adversely affect our business and operating results.. Our franchisees are subject to various existing U.S. federal, state, local, and foreign laws affecting the operation of the restaurants including various health, sanitation, fire, and safety standards. Franchisees may in the future become subject to regulation (or further regulation) seeking to tax or regulate high-fat foods, to limit the serving size of beverages containing sugar, to ban the use of certain packaging materials (including polystyrene used in the iconic Dunkin' Donuts cup), or requiring the display of detailed nutrition information. Each of these regulations would be costly to comply with and/or could result in reduced demand for our products.. In connection with the continued operation or remodeling of certain restaurants, franchisees may be required to expend funds to meet U.S. federal, state, and local and foreign regulations. Difficulties in obtaining, or the failure to obtain, required licenses or approvals could delay or prevent the opening of a new restaurant in a particular area or cause an existing restaurant to cease operations. All of these situations would decrease sales of an affected restaurant and reduce royalty payments to us with respect to such restaurant.. The franchisees are also subject to the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended, and various other laws in the United States and in foreign countries governing such matters as minimum-wage requirements, overtime and other working conditions, and citizenship requirements. A significant number of our franchisees' food-service employees are paid at rates related to the U.S. federal minimum wage and applicable minimum wages in foreign jurisdictions and past increases in the U.S. federal minimum wage and foreign jurisdiction minimum wage have increased labor costs, as would future such increases. Any increases in labor costs might result in franchisees inadequately staffing restaurants. Understaffed restaurants could reduce sales at such restaurants, decrease royalty payments, and adversely affect our brands. Evolving labor and employment laws, rules, and regulations could also result in increased exposure on the part of Dunkin' Brands' for labor and employment related liabilities that have historically been borne by franchisees.. In 2015, the National Labor Relations Board adopted a new and broader standard for determining when two or more otherwise unrelated employers may be found to be a joint employer of the same employees under the National Labor Relations Act. If this joint employer liability standard is upheld or adopted by other government agencies such as the Department of Labor, the Equal. - 19-. Employment Opportunity Commission, and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and/or applied generally to franchise relationships, it could cause us to be liable or held responsible for unfair labor practices and other violations of its franchisees and subject us to other liabilities, and require us to conduct collective bargaining negotiations, regarding employees of totally separate, independent employers, most notably our franchisees. In such event, our operating expenses may increase as a result of required modifications to our business practices, increased litigation, governmental investigations or proceedings, administrative enforcement actions, fines and civil liability.. Our and our franchisees' operations and properties are subject to extensive U.S. federal, state, and local laws and regulations, including those relating to environmental, building, and zoning requirements. Our development of properties for leasing or subleasing to franchisees depends to a significant extent on the selection and acquisition of suitable sites, which are subject to zoning, land use, environmental, traffic, and other regulations and requirements. Failure to comply with legal requirements could result in, among other things, revocation of required licenses, administrative enforcement actions, fines, and civil and criminal liability. We may incur investigation, remediation, or other costs related to releases of hazardous materials or other environmental conditions at our properties, regardless of whether such environmental conditions were created by us or a third party, such as a prior owner or tenant. We have incurred costs to address soil and groundwater contamination at some sites, and continue to incur nominal remediation costs at some of our other locations. If such issues become more expensive to address, or if new issues arise, they could increase our expenses, generate negative publicity, or otherwise adversely affect us.. We are subject to a variety of additional risks associated with our franchisees.. Our franchise system subjects us to a number of additional risks, any one of which may impact our ability to collect royalty payments from our franchisees, may harm the goodwill associated with our brands, and/or may materially and adversely impact our business and results of operations.. Bankruptcy of U.S. Franchisees. A franchisee bankruptcy could have a substantial negative impact on our ability to collect payments due under such franchisee's franchise arrangements and, to the extent such franchisee is a lessee pursuant to a franchisee lease/sublease with us, payments due under such franchisee lease/sublease. In a franchisee bankruptcy, the bankruptcy trustee may reject its franchise arrangements and/or franchisee lease/sublease pursuant to Section 365 under the United States bankruptcy code, in which case there would be no further royalty payments and/or franchisee lease/sublease payments from such franchisee, and there can be no assurance as to the proceeds, if any, that may ultimately be recovered in a bankruptcy proceeding of such franchisee in connection with a damage claim resulting from such rejection.. Franchisee Changes in Control. The franchise arrangements prohibit \"changes in control\" of a franchisee without our consent as the franchisor, except in the event of the death or disability of a franchisee (if a natural person) or a principal of a franchisee entity. In such event, the executors and representatives of the franchisee are required to transfer the relevant franchise arrangements to a successor franchisee approved by the franchisor. There can be, however, no assurance that any such successor would be found or, if found, would be able to perform the former franchisee's obligations under such franchise arrangements or successfully operate the restaurant. If a successor franchisee is not found, or if the successor franchisee that is found is not as successful in operating the restaurant as the then-deceased or disabled franchisee or franchisee principal, the sales of the restaurant could be adversely affected.. Franchisee Insurance. The franchise arrangements require each franchisee to maintain certain insurance types and levels. Certain extraordinary hazards, however, may not be covered, and insurance may not be available (or may be available only at prohibitively expensive rates) with respect to many other risks. Moreover, any loss incurred could exceed policy limits and policy payments made to franchisees may not be made on a timely basis. Any such loss or delay in payment could have a material and adverse effect on a franchisee's ability to satisfy its obligations under its franchise arrangement, including its ability to make royalty payments.. Some of Our Franchisees are Operating Entities. Franchisees may be natural persons or legal entities. Our franchisees that are operating companies (as opposed to limited purpose entities) are subject to business, credit, financial, and other risks, which may be unrelated to the operations of the restaurants. These unrelated risks could materially and adversely affect a franchisee that is an operating company and its ability to make its royalty payments in full or on a timely basis, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results.. Franchise Arrangement Termination; Nonrenewal. Each franchise arrangement is subject to termination by us as the franchisor in the event of a default, generally after expiration of applicable cure periods, although under certain circumstances a franchise arrangement may be terminated by us upon notice without an opportunity to cure. The default provisions under the franchise arrangements are drafted broadly and include, among other things, any failure to meet operating standards and actions that may threaten our licensed intellectual property.. In addition, each franchise agreement has an expiration date. Upon the expiration of the franchise arrangement, we or the franchisee may, or may not, elect to renew the franchise arrangements. If the franchisee arrangement is renewed, the franchisee. - 20-. will receive a \"successor\" franchise arrangement for an additional term. Such option, however, is contingent on the franchisee's execution of the then-current form of franchise arrangements (which may include increased royalty payments, advertising fees, and other costs), the satisfaction of certain conditions (including modernization of the restaurant and related operations), and the payment of a renewal fee. If a franchisee is unable or unwilling to satisfy any of the foregoing conditions, the expiring franchise arrangements will terminate upon expiration of the term of the franchise arrangements.. Product Liability Exposure. We require franchisees to maintain general liability insurance coverage to protect against the risk of product liability and other risks and demand strict franchisee compliance with health and safety regulations. However, franchisees may receive through the supply chain (from central manufacturing locations (\"CMLs\"), NDCP, or otherwise), or produce defective food or beverage products, which may adversely impact our brands' goodwill.. Americans with Disabilities Act. Restaurants located in the United States must comply with Title III of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, as amended (the \"ADA\"). Although we believe newer restaurants meet the ADA construction standards and, further, that franchisees have historically been diligent in the remodeling of older restaurants, a finding of noncompliance with the ADA could result in the imposition of injunctive relief, fines, an award of damages to private litigants, or additional capital expenditures to remedy such noncompliance. Any imposition of injunctive relief, fines, damage awards, or capital expenditures could adversely affect the ability of a franchisee to make royalty payments, or could generate negative publicity, or otherwise adversely affect us.. Franchisee Litigation. Franchisees are subject to a variety of litigation risks, including, but not limited to, customer claims, personal-injury claims, environmental claims, employee allegations of improper termination and discrimination, claims related to violations of the ADA, religious freedom, the Fair Labor Standards Act, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (\"ERISA\"), and intellectual-property claims. Each of these claims may increase costs and limit the funds available to make royalty payments and reduce the execution of new franchise arrangements.. Potential Conflicts with Franchisee Organizations. Although we believe our relationship with our franchisees is open and strong, the nature of the franchisor-franchisee relationship can give rise to conflict. In the U.S., our approach is collaborative in that we have established district advisory councils, regional advisory councils, and a national brand advisory council for each of the Dunkin' Donuts brand and the Baskin-Robbins brand. The councils are comprised of franchisees, brand employees, and executives, and they meet to discuss the strengths, weaknesses, challenges, and opportunities facing the brands as well as the rollout of new products and projects. Internationally, our operations are primarily conducted through joint ventures with local licensees, so our relationships are conducted directly with our licensees rather than separate advisory committees. No material disputes with franchisee organizations exist in the United States or internationally at this time.. Failure to retain our existing senior management team or the inability to attract and retain new qualified personnel could hurt our business and inhibit our ability to operate and grow successfully.. Our success will continue to depend to a significant extent on our executive management team and the ability of other key management personnel to replace executives who retire or resign. We may not be able to retain our executive officers and key personnel or attract additional qualified management personnel to replace executives who retire or resign. Failure to retain our leadership team and attract and retain other important personnel could lead to ineffective management and operations, which could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results.. Unforeseen weather or other events, including terrorist threats or activities, may disrupt our business.. Unforeseen events, including war, terrorism, and other international, regional, or local instability or conflicts (including labor issues), embargos, public health issues (including tainted food, food-borne illnesses, food tampering, or water supply or widespread/pandemic illness such as Ebola, the avian or H1N1 flu, MERS), and natural disasters such as earthquakes, tsunamis, hurricanes, or other adverse weather and climate conditions, whether occurring in the U.S. or abroad, could disrupt our operations or that of our franchisees or suppliers; or result in political or economic instability. These events could reduce traffic in our restaurants and demand for our products; make it difficult or impossible for our franchisees to receive products from their suppliers; disrupt or prevent our ability to perform functions at the corporate level; and/or otherwise impede our or our franchisees' ability to continue business operations in a continuous manner consistent with the level and extent of business activities prior to the occurrence of the unexpected event or events, which in turn may materially and adversely impact our business and operating results.. Changes in tax laws could adversely affect the taxes we pay and our profitability.. We are subject to income and other taxes in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions, and our operations, plans and results are affected by tax and other initiatives around the world. In particular, we are affected by the impact of changes to tax laws or policy or related authoritative interpretations, including changes and uncertainties resulting from proposals for comprehensive or corporate tax reforms in the U.S. or elsewhere. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"Tax Act\") was signed into. - 21-. law. While we have estimated the effects of the Tax Act, we continue to refine those estimates with the possibility they could change, and those changes could be material. Any increases in income tax rates or changes in income tax laws could have a material adverse impact on our financial results.. Risks related to our common stock. Our stock price could be extremely volatile and, as a result, you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price you paid for them.. Since our initial public offering in July 2011, the price of our common stock, as reported by NASDAQ, has ranged from a low of $23.24 on December 15, 2011 to a high of $68.45 on January 25, 2018. In addition, the stock market in general has been highly volatile. As a result, the market price of our common stock is likely to be similarly volatile, and investors in our common stock may experience a decrease, which could be substantial, in the value of their stock, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects, and could lose part or all of their investment. The price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including those described elsewhere in this report and others such as:. • variations in our operating performance and the performance of our competitors;. • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly or annual operating results;. • publication of research reports by securities analysts about us, our competitors, or our industry;. • our failure or the failure of our competitors to meet analysts' projections or guidance that we or our competitors may give to the market;. • additions and departures of key personnel;. • strategic decisions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, divestitures, spin-offs, joint ventures, strategic investments, or changes in business strategy;. • the passage of legislation or other regulatory developments affecting us or our industry;. • speculation in the press or investment community;. • changes in accounting principles;. • terrorist acts, acts of war, or periods of widespread civil unrest;. • natural disasters and other calamities; and. • changes in general market and economic conditions.. As we operate in a single industry, we are especially vulnerable to these factors to the extent that they affect our industry, our products, or to a lesser extent our markets. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been initiated against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources, and could also require us to make substantial payments to satisfy judgments or to settle litigation.. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may deter takeover efforts that you feel would be beneficial to stockholder value.. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions which could make it harder for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include a classified board of directors and limitations on actions by our stockholders. In addition, our board of directors has the right to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval that could be used to dilute a potential hostile acquirer. Our certificate of incorporation also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and a holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. As a result, you may lose your ability to sell your stock for a price in excess of the prevailing market price due to these protective measures, and efforts by stockholders to change the direction or management of the company may be unsuccessful."
