[1] "Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations, and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this Annual Report. In such case, the trading price for DXC common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. The risks described below are not the only risks that DXC currently faces. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known or that are currently expected to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations or the price of our common stock in the future. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods.. Risks Relating to Our Business. Achieving our growth objectives may prove unsuccessful. We may be unable to identify future attractive acquisitions and strategic partnerships, which may adversely affect our growth. In addition, if we are unable to integrate acquisitions and implement strategic partnerships or achieve anticipated revenue improvements and cost reductions, our profitability may be materially and adversely affected.. We may fail to complete strategic transactions. Closing strategic transactions is subject to uncertainties and risks, including the risk that we will be unable to satisfy conditions to closing, such as regulatory and financing conditions and the absence of material adverse changes to our business. In addition, our inability to successfully integrate the operations we acquire and leverage these operations to generate substantial cost savings, as well as our inability to avoid revenue erosion and earnings decline, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. In order to achieve successful acquisitions, we will need to:. • successfully integrate the operations, as well as the accounting, financial controls, management information, technology, human resources and other administrative systems, of acquired businesses with existing operations and systems;. • maintain third-party relationships previously established by acquired companies;. • attract and retain senior management and other key personnel at acquired businesses; and. • successfully manage new business lines, as well as acquisition-related workload.. We may not be successful in meeting these challenges or any others encountered in connection with historical and future acquisitions. In addition, the anticipated benefits of one or more acquisitions may not be realized and future acquisitions could require dilutive issuances of equity securities and/or the assumption of contingent liabilities. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We have also entered into and intend to identify and enter into additional strategic partnerships with other industry participants that will allow us to expand our business. However, we may be unable to identify attractive strategic partnership candidates or complete these partnerships on terms favorable to us. In addition, if we are unable to successfully implement our partnership strategies or our strategic partners do not fulfill their obligations or otherwise prove disadvantageous to our business, our investments in these partnerships and our anticipated business expansion could be adversely affected.. Our ability to continue to develop and expand our service offerings to address emerging business demands and technological trends, including the demand for digital technologies and services, may impact our future growth. If we are not successful in meeting these business challenges, our results of operations and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected.. Our ability to implement solutions for our customers, incorporating new developments and improvements in technology that translate into productivity improvements for our customers, and our ability to develop digital and other new service offerings that meet current and prospective customers' needs, as well as evolving industry standards, are critical to our success. The markets we serve are highly competitive and characterized by rapid technological change. Our competitors may develop solutions or services that make our offerings obsolete. Our ability to develop and implement up to date solutions utilizing new technologies that meet evolving customer needs in cloud, information technology outsourcing, consulting, industry software and solutions and application services markets in a timely or cost-effective manner will impact our ability to retain and attract customers and our  future revenue growth and earnings.. 10. Our ability to compete in certain markets we serve is dependent on our ability to continue to expand our capacity in certain offshore locations. However, as our presence in these locations increases, we are exposed to risks inherent to these locations which may adversely affect our revenue and profitability.. A significant portion of our application outsourcing and software development activities has been shifted to India and we plan to continue to expand our presence there and in other lower cost locations. As a result, we are exposed to the risks inherent in operating in India or other locations including (1) a highly competitive labor market for skilled workers which may result in significant increases in labor costs, as well as shortages of qualified workers in the future and (2) the possibility that the U.S. Federal Government or the European Union may enact legislation that provides significant disincentives for customers to locate certain of their operations offshore, which would reduce the demand for the services we provide in such locations and may adversely impact our cost structure and profitability. In addition, India has experienced, and other countries may experience, political instability, civil unrest and hostilities with neighboring countries. Negative or uncertain political climates in countries or locations where we operate, including but not limited to military activity or civil hostilities, criminal activities and other acts of violence, infrastructure disruption, natural disasters or other conditions could adversely affect our operations.. We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended (\"FCPA\") and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions. We pursue opportunities in certain parts of the world that experience government corruption and in certain circumstances, compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Our internal policies mandate compliance with all applicable anti-bribery laws. We require our employees, partners, subcontractors, agents, and others to comply with the FCPA and other anti-bribery laws. There is no assurance that our policies or procedures will protect us against liability under the FCPA or other laws for actions taken by our employees and intermediaries. If we are found to be liable for FCPA violations (either due to our own acts or our omissions, or due to the acts or omissions of others), we could suffer from severe criminal or civil penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, detecting, investigating and resolving actual or alleged violations of the FCPA or other anti-bribery violations is expensive and could consume significant time and attention of our senior management.. We could be held liable for damages, our reputation could suffer or we may experience service interruptions from security breaches, cyber attacks or disclosure of confidential information or personal data, which could cause significant financial loss.. As a provider of IT services to private and public sector customers operating in a number of regulated industries and countries, we store and process increasingly large amounts of data for our clients, including sensitive and personally identifiable information. We also manage IT infrastructure of our own and of clients. We possess substantial intellectual property. And, we collect and store certain personal and financial information from customers and employees.. At the same time, the continued occurrence of high-profile data breaches and cyber-attacks provides evidence of an external environment increasingly hostile to information and corporate security. Cybersecurity incidents can result from unintentional events or deliberate attacks by insiders or third parties, including criminals, competitors, nation-states, and hacktivists. Like other companies, we face an evolving array of cybersecurity and data security threats that pose risks to the company and our clients. We can also be harmed by attacks on third parties, such as denial-of-service attacks. We see regular unauthorized attempts to access our systems, which we evaluate for severity and frequency. Some of those attempts may succeed. It is possible that we could suffer a severe attack or incident, with serious impacts on the company.. We must expend capital and other resources to protect against attempted security breaches or cyber-attacks or to alleviate problems caused by successful breaches or attacks. We have a robust information security program and are undertaking cybersecurity planning and activities throughout the company. This includes the acquisition of technology and services, review and refinement of cybersecurity and data security policies and procedures and employee training, among many other investments. Senior management and the Board of Directors are appropriately and actively engaged in cybersecurity risk management by the Company.. 11. Our security measures are designed to identify and protect against security breaches and cyber-attacks; no threat incident identified to date has resulted in a material adverse effect on us or our customers. However, there is no perfect security system, and our failure to detect, prevent or adequately respond to a future threat incident could subject us to liability and reputational damage, and have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, the cost and operational consequences of responding to breaches and cyber-attacks and implementing remediation measures could be significant.. We rely on internal and external information and technological systems to manage our operations and are exposed to risk of loss resulting from breaches in the security or other failures of these systems. Security breaches, or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us, our clients or our customers, could expose us to risk of loss of this information, regulatory scrutiny, actions and penalties, extensive contractual liability and other litigation, reputational harm, and a loss of customer confidence which could potentially have an adverse impact on future business with current and potential customers.. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments may result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms that we use to protect our data and that of clients, including sensitive customer transaction data. A party who is able to circumvent our security measures and those of our contractors, partners and vendors could misappropriate proprietary information confidential data of us or our customers, employees and business partners or cause interruption in our or their operations.. Experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate or compromise our confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. Computer programmers and hackers also may be able to develop and deploy ransomware, malware and other malicious software programs through phishing and other methods, that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of these products. In addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications produced or procured from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including \"bugs\" and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the security and operation of our systems, or harm those of third parties with whom we may interact. The costs to eliminate or alleviate cyber or other security problems, including ransomware, malware, bugs, malicious software programs and other security vulnerabilities, could be significant, and our efforts to address these problems may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers, which may impede our sales, distribution or other critical functions.. Increasing cybersecurity, data privacy and information security obligations around the world could also impose additional regulatory pressures on our customers' businesses and, indirectly, on our operations, or lead to inquiries or enforcement actions. In the United States, we are seeing increasing obligations and expectations from federal and non-federal customers. In response, some of our customers have sought and may continue to seek, to contractually impose certain strict data privacy and information security obligations on us. Some of our customer contracts may not limit our liability for the loss of confidential information. If we are unable to adequately address these concerns, our business and results of operations could suffer.. Compliance with new privacy and security laws, requirements and regulations, such as the European Union General Data Protection Regulation which became effective in May 2018, where required or undertaken by us, may result in cost increases due to expanded compliance obligations, potential systems changes, the development of additional administrative processes and increased enforcement actions, fines and penalties. While we strive to comply with all applicable data protection laws and regulations, as well as internal privacy policies, any failure or perceived failure to comply or any misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential information may result in proceedings or actions against us by government or other entities, private lawsuits against us (including class actions) or the loss of customers, which could potentially have an adverse effect on our business, reputation and results of operations.. 12. Portions of our infrastructure also may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors in connection with systems integration or migration work that takes place from time to time. We may not be successful in implementing new systems and transitioning data, which could cause business disruptions and be more expensive, time-consuming, disruptive and resource intensive. Such disruptions could adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders and respond to customer requests and interrupt other processes. Delayed sales, lower margins or lost customers resulting from these disruptions could reduce our revenues, increase our expenses, damage our reputation, and adversely affect our stock price.. Our ability to raise additional capital for future needs may impact our ability to compete.. We currently maintain investment grade credit ratings with Moody's Investors Service, Fitch Rating Services, and. Standard & Poor's Ratings Services. Our credit ratings are based upon information furnished by us or obtained by a rating agency from its own sources and are subject to revision, suspension or withdrawal by one or more rating agencies at any time. Rating agencies may review the ratings assigned to us due to developments that are beyond our control, including potential new standards requiring the agencies to reassess rating practices and methodologies. If changes in our credit ratings were to occur, it could result in higher interest costs under certain of our credit facilities. It would also cause our future borrowing costs to increase and limit our access to capital markets. Any downgrades could negatively impact the perception of our company by lenders and other third parties. In addition, certain of our major contracts provide customers with a right of termination in certain circumstances in the event of a rating downgrade below investment grade.. Information regarding our credit ratings is included in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption \"Liquidity and Capital Resources.\". We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We have a significant amount of indebtedness totaling approximately $8.4 billion as of March 31, 2018 (including capital lease obligations). We may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future for many reasons, including to fund acquisitions. Our existing indebtedness, together with the incurrence of additional indebtedness and the restrictive covenants contained in, or expected to be contained in the documents evidencing such indebtedness, may, among other things:. • require the use of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make debt service payments;. • limit the ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, investments,. acquisitions or other general business purposes;. • cause events of default if we fail to comply with the financial and other covenants contained in the. agreements governing our debt instruments, which could require us to negotiate a waiver or could. cause us to incur additional fees and expenses;. • subject us to the risk of increased sensitivity to interest rate increases in our outstanding variable-rate. indebtedness and could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly;. • increase the risk of a future credit ratings downgrade of our debt, which could increase future debt costs. and limit the future availability for debt financing; and. • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to less leveraged competitors.. In addition, we could be unable to refinance our outstanding indebtedness on reasonable terms or at all.. 13. Our primary markets are highly competitive. If we are unable to compete in these highly competitive markets, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.. Our competitors include large, technically competent and well capitalized companies, some of which have emerged as a result of industry consolidation, as well as \"pure-play\" companies that have a single product focus. This competition may place downward pressure on operating margins in our industry, particularly for technology outsourcing contract extensions or renewals. As a result, we may not be able to maintain our current operating margins, or achieve favorable operating margins, for technology outsourcing contracts extended or renewed in the future. If we fail to effectively reduce our cost structure during periods with declining margins, our results of operations may be adversely affected.. We encounter aggressive competition from numerous and varied competitors. Our competitiveness is based on factors including technology, innovation, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, reputation, range of products and services, account relationships, customer training, service and support and security. If we are unable to compete based on such factors, our results of operations and business prospects could be harmed. We have a large portfolio of services and we need to allocate financial, personnel and other resources across all services while competing with companies that have smaller portfolios or specialize in one or more of our service lines. As a result, we may invest less in certain business areas than our competitors do, and competitors may have greater financial, technical and marketing resources available to them compared to the resources allocated to our services. Industry consolidation may also affect competition by creating larger, more homogeneous and potentially stronger competitors in the markets in which we operate. Additionally, competitors may affect our business by entering into exclusive arrangements with existing or potential customers or suppliers.. Companies with whom we have alliances in certain areas may be or become competitors in other areas. In addition, companies with whom we have alliances also may acquire or form alliances with competitors, which could reduce their business with us. If we are unable to effectively manage these complicated relationships with alliance partners, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.. We face aggressive price competition and may have to lower prices to stay competitive, while simultaneously seeking to maintain or improve revenue and gross margin. In addition, competitors who have a greater presence in some of the lower-cost markets in which we compete, or who can obtain better pricing, more favorable contractual terms and conditions, may be able to offer lower prices than we are able to offer. Our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by these and other industry-wide pricing pressures.. The terms of the Separation and Distribution Agreement in connection with the HPES Merger included non-competition provisions pursuant to which DXC and HPE generally agreed not to compete in certain product and service categories for two years. In addition, HPE is party to a Separation and Distribution Agreement with HP that restricts HPE and the HPES business from engaging in certain activities that compete with HP until October 31, 2018. The foregoing restrictions may limit our ability to engage in certain activities, may potentially lead to disputes and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we are unable to accurately estimate the cost of services and the timeline for completion of contracts, the profitability of our contracts may be materially and adversely affected.. Our commercial contracts are typically awarded on a competitive basis. Our bids are based upon, among other items, the expected cost to provide the services. We generally provide services under time and materials contracts, unit price contracts, fixed-price contracts, and multiple-element software sales. We are dependent on our internal forecasts and predictions about our projects and the marketplace and, to generate an acceptable return on our investment in these contracts, we must be able to accurately estimate our costs to provide the services required by the contract and to complete the contracts in a timely manner. We face a number of risks when pricing our contracts, as many of our projects entail the coordination of operations and workforces in multiple locations and utilizing workforces with different skill sets and competencies across geographically diverse service locations. In addition, revenues from some of our contracts are recognized using the percentage-of-completion method, which requires estimates of total costs at completion, fees earned on the contract, or both. This estimation process, particularly due to the technical nature of the services being performed and the long-term nature of certain contracts, is complex and involves significant judgment. Adjustments to original estimates are. 14. often required as work progresses, experience is gained, and additional information becomes known, even though the scope of the work required under the contract may not change. If we fail to accurately estimate our costs or the time required to complete a contract, the profitability of our contracts may be materially and adversely affected.. Some IT outsourcing services agreements contain pricing provisions that permit a client to request a benchmark study by a mutually acceptable third party. The benchmarking process typically compares the contractual price of services against the price of similar services offered by other specified providers in a peer comparison group, subject to agreed­upon adjustment, and normalization factors. Generally, if the benchmarking study shows that the pricing differs from the peer group outside a specified range, and the difference is not due to the unique requirements of the client, then the parties will negotiate in good faith appropriate adjustments to the pricing. This may result in the reduction of rates for the benchmarked services performed after the implementation of those pricing adjustments, which could harm the financial performance of our services business.. Some IT service agreements require significant investment in the early stages that is expected to be recovered through billings over the life of the agreement. These agreements often involve the construction of new IT systems and communications networks and the development and deployment of new technologies. Substantial performance risk exists in each agreement with these characteristics, and some or all elements of service delivery under these agreements are dependent upon successful completion of the development, construction, and deployment phases. Failure to perform satisfactorily under these agreements may expose us to legal liability, result in the loss of customers or harm our reputation, which could harm the financial performance of our IT services business.. Performance under contracts, including those on which we have partnered with third parties, may be adversely affected if we or the third parties fail to deliver on commitments or if we incur legal liability in connection with providing our services and solutions.. Our contracts are complex and, in some instances, may require that we partner with other parties, including software and hardware vendors, to provide the complex solutions required by our customers. Our ability to deliver the solutions and provide the services required by our customers is dependent on our and our partners' ability to meet our customers' delivery schedules. If we or our partners fail to deliver services or products on time, our ability to complete the contract may be adversely affected. Additionally, our customers may perform audits or require us to perform audits and provide audit reports with respect to the controls and procedures that we use in the performance of services for such customers. Our ability to acquire new customers and retain existing customers may be adversely affected and our reputation could be harmed if we receive a qualified opinion, or if we cannot obtain an unqualified opinion in a timely manner, with respect to our controls and procedures in connection with any such audit. We could also incur liability if our controls and procedures, or the controls and procedures we manage for a customer, were to result in an internal control failure or impair our customer's ability to comply with its own internal control requirements. If we or our partners fail to meet our contractual obligations or otherwise breach obligations to our customers, we could be subject to legal liability, which may have a material and adverse impact on our revenues and profitability.. Our ability to provide customers with competitive services is dependent on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel.. Our ability to grow and provide our customers with competitive services is partially dependent on our ability to attract and retain highly motivated people with the skills necessary to serve our customers. The markets we serve are highly competitive and competition for skilled employees in the technology outsourcing, consulting, and systems integration and enterprise services markets is intense for both onshore and offshore locales. The loss of personnel could impair our ability to perform under certain contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. We also must manage leadership development and succession planning throughout our business. The loss of our key personnel, coupled with an inability to adequately develop and train personnel and assimilate key new hires or promoted employees could have a material adverse effect on relationships with third parties, our financial condition and results of operations.. 15. In addition, due to the HPES Merger, uncertainty around future employment opportunities, facility locations, organizational and reporting structures, and other related concerns may impair our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. If employee attrition is higher than expected due to difficulties encountered in the integration process, it may adversely impact our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the HPES Merger.. If we do not hire, train, motivate, and effectively utilize employees with the right mix of skills and experience in the right geographic regions and for the right offerings to meet the needs of our clients, our financial performance could suffer. For example, if our employee utilization rate is too low, our profitability, and the level of engagement of our employees could decrease. If that utilization rate is too high, it could have an adverse effect on employee engagement and attrition and the quality of the work performed, as well as our ability to staff projects. If we are unable to hire and retain enough employees with the skills or backgrounds needed to meet current demand, we may need to redeploy existing personnel, increase our reliance on subcontractors or increase employee compensation levels, all of which could also negatively affect our profitability. In addition, if we have more employees than necessary with certain skill sets or in certain geographies, we may incur increased costs as we work to rebalance our supply of skills and resources with client demand in those geographies.. Our international operations are exposed to risks, including fluctuations in exchange rates, which may be beyond our control.. Our exposure to currencies other than the U.S. dollar may impact our results, as they are expressed in U.S. dollars. Currency variations also contribute to variations in sales of products and services in affected jurisdictions. For example, in the event that one or more European countries were to replace the Euro with another currency, sales in that country or in Europe generally may be adversely affected until stable exchange rates are established. While historically we have partially mitigated currency risk, including exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, by matching costs with revenues in a given currency, our exposure to fluctuations in other currencies against the U.S. dollar increases as revenue in currencies other than the U.S. dollar increase and as more of the services we provide are shifted to lower cost regions of the world. Approximately 56% of revenues earned during fiscal 2018 were derived from sales denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar and are expected to continue to represent a significant portion of our revenues. Also, we believe that our ability to match revenues and expenses in a given currency will decrease as more work is performed at offshore locations.. We may use forward and option contracts to protect against currency exchange rate risks. The effectiveness of these hedges will depend on our ability to accurately forecast future cash flows, which may be particularly difficult during periods of uncertain demand and highly volatile exchange rates. We may incur significant losses from our hedging activities due to factors such as demand volatility and currency variations. In addition, certain or all of our hedging activities may be ineffective, may expire and not be renewed or may not offset the adverse financial impact resulting from currency variations. Losses associated with hedging activities may also impact our revenues and to a lesser extent our cost of sales and financial condition.. In June 2016, the United Kingdom held a referendum in which British citizens voted to exit from the European Union, commonly referred to as \"Brexit.\" In March 2017, the U.K. government initiated a process to withdraw from the European Union and began negotiating the terms of its separation. Current uncertainty over the negotiations between the United Kingdom and the European Union may adversely affect our operations and financial results. Risks we associate with Brexit include, for example, that Brexit could potentially result in restrictions on the movement of capital and the mobility of personnel between the remaining 27 European Union states and the United Kingdom, in addition to volatility in currency exchange rates. Brexit also creates uncertainty in areas currently regulated by European Union law, such as cross border data transfers. Brexit is also expected to lead to short- and medium-term uncertainty in future trade arrangements between U.K.-based operations and the various European Union markets that they serve.. 16. Our future business and financial performance could suffer due to a variety of international factors, including:. • ongoing instability or changes in a country's or region's economic or geopolitical and security conditions, including inflation, recession, interest rate fluctuations, and actual or anticipated military or political conflict, civil unrest, crime, political instability, human rights concerns, and terrorist activity;. • natural or man-made disasters, industrial accidents, public health issues, cybersecurity incidents, interruptions of service from utilities, transportation or telecommunications providers, or other catastrophic events;. • longer collection cycles and financial instability among customers;. • trade regulations and procedures and actions affecting production, pricing and marketing of products, including policies adopted by countries that may champion or otherwise favor domestic companies and technologies over foreign competitors;. • local labor conditions and regulations;. • managing our geographically dispersed workforce;. • changes in the international, national or local regulatory and legal environments;. • differing technology standards or customer requirements;. • difficulties associated with repatriating earnings generated or held abroad in a tax-efficient manner and. • changes in tax laws.. Our business operations are subject to various and changing federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that could result in costs or sanctions that adversely affect our business and results of operations.. We operate in approximately 70 countries in an increasingly complex regulatory environment. Among other things, we provide complex industry specific insurance processing in the United Kingdom, which is regulated by authorities in the United Kingdom. and elsewhere, such as the U.K.'s Financial Conduct Authority and Her Majesty's Treasury and the U.S. Department of Treasury, which increases our exposure to compliance risk. For example, in February 2017, CSC submitted an initial notification of voluntary disclosure to the U.S. Department of Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control (\"OFAC\") regarding certain possible violations of U.S. sanctions laws pertaining to insurance premium data and claims data processed by two partially-owned joint ventures of Xchanging, which CSC acquired during the first quarter of fiscal 2017. A copy of the disclosure was also provided to Her Majesty's Treasury Office of Financial Sanctions Implementation in the United Kingdom. Our related internal investigation is continuing, and we have undertaken to cooperate with and provide a full report of our findings to OFAC when completed. Our retail investment account management business in Germany is another example of a regulated business, which must maintain a banking license, is regulated by the German Federal Financial Supervisory Authority and the European Central Bank and must comply with German banking laws and regulations.. In addition, businesses in the countries in which we operate are subject to local, legal and political environments and regulations including with respect to employment, tax, statutory supervision and reporting and trade restriction. These regulations and environments are also subject to change.. Adjusting business operations to changing environments and regulations may be costly and could potentially render the particular business operations uneconomical, which may adversely affect our profitability or lead to a change in the business operations. Notwithstanding our best efforts, we may not be in compliance with all regulations in the countries in which we operate at all times and may be subject to sanctions, penalties or fines as a result. These sanctions, penalties or fines may materially and adversely impact our profitability.. 17. We may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of our restructuring plans and our restructuring may adversely affect our business.. Our Board of Directors has approved several restructuring plans to realign our cost structure due to the changing nature of our business and to achieve operating efficiencies to reduce our costs. We may not be able to obtain the costs savings and benefits that were initially anticipated in connection with our restructuring plans. Additionally, as a result of our restructuring, we may experience a loss of continuity, loss of accumulated knowledge and/or inefficiency during transitional periods. Reorganization and restructuring can require a significant amount of management and other employees' time and focus, which may divert attention from operating and growing our business. If we fail to achieve some or all of the expected benefits of restructuring, it could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. For more information about our restructuring plans, see Note 19 - \"Restructuring Costs\".. In the course of providing services to customers, we may inadvertently infringe on the intellectual property rights of others and be exposed to claims for damages.. The solutions we provide to our customers may inadvertently infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties resulting in claims for damages against us or our customers. Our contracts generally indemnify our clients from claims for intellectual property infringement for the services and equipment we provide under the applicable contracts. We also indemnify certain vendors and customers against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use by such vendors and customers of software products and services and certain other matters. Some of the applicable indemnification arrangements may not be subject to maximum loss clauses. The expense and time of defending against these claims may have a material and adverse impact on our profitability. If we lose our ability to continue using any such services and solutions because they are found to infringe the rights of others, we will need to obtain substitute solutions or seek alternative means of obtaining the technology necessary to continue to provide such services and solutions. Our inability to replace such solutions, or to replace such solutions in a timely or cost-effective manner, could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Additionally, the publicity resulting from infringing intellectual property rights may damage our reputation and adversely impact our ability to develop new business.. We may be exposed to negative publicity and other potential risks if we are unable to achieve and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting.. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations require our management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. However, a control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. There can be no assurance that all control issues or fraud will be detected. In connection with the HPES Merger, and as we continue to grow our business, our internal controls continue to become more complex and require more resources.. Any failure to maintain effective controls could prevent us from timely and reliably reporting financial results and may harm our operating results. In addition, if we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting or, if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide an unqualified report as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as of each fiscal year end, we may be exposed to negative publicity, which could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. Any failure to maintain effective internal controls and any such resulting negative publicity may negatively affect our business and stock price.. 18. Additionally, the existence of any material weaknesses or significant deficiencies would require management to devote significant time and incur significant expense to remediate any such material weaknesses or significant deficiencies and management may not be able to remediate any such material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in a timely manner. The existence of any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting could also result in errors in our financial statements that could require us to restate our financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and cause stockholders to lose confidence in our reported financial information, all of which could materially and adversely affect us and the market price of our common stock.. We could suffer additional losses due to asset impairment charges.. We acquired a substantial quantity of goodwill and other intangibles as a result of the HPES Merger, increasing our exposure to this risk. We test our goodwill for impairment during the second quarter of every year and on an interim date should events or changes in circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is below its carrying amount. If the fair value of a reporting unit is revised downward due to declines in business performance or other factors, an impairment could result and a non-cash charge could be required. We test intangible assets with finite lives for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. This assessment of the recoverability of finite-lived intangible assets could result in an impairment and a non-cash charge could be required.. We also test certain equipment and deferred cost balances associated with contracts when the contract is materially underperforming or is expected to materially underperform in the future, as compared to the original bid model or budget. If the projected cash flows of a particular contract are not adequate to recover the unamortized cost balance of the asset group, the balance is adjusted in the tested period based on the contract's fair value. Either of these impairments could materially affect our reported net earnings.. We may not be able to pay dividends or repurchase shares of our common stock in accordance with our announced intent or at all.. On April 3, 2017, we announced the establishment of a share repurchase plan approved by the Board of Directors with an initial authorization of up to $2.0 billion for future repurchases of outstanding shares of our common stock. Likewise, during fiscal 2018 we paid quarterly cash dividends to our stockholders in accordance with our announced dividend policy for fiscal 2018. We intend to continue to pay a quarterly cash dividend during fiscal 2019 but the declaration and payment of future dividends, the amount of any such dividends, and the establishment of record and payment dates for dividends, if any, are subject to final determination by our Board of Directors after review of our current strategy and financial performance and position, among other things.. The Board of Directors' determinations regarding dividends and share repurchases will depend on a variety of factors, including net income, cash flow generated from operations, amount and location of our cash and investment balances, overall liquidity position and potential alternative uses of cash, such as acquisitions, as well as economic conditions and expected future financial results. There can be no guarantee that we will achieve our financial goals in the amounts or within the expected time frame, or at all. Our ability to declare future dividends will depend on our future financial performance, which in turn depends on the successful implementation of our strategy and on financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors, general economic conditions, demand and prices for our services and other factors specific to our industry or specific projects, many of which are beyond our control. Therefore, our ability to generate cash flow depends on the performance of our operations and could be limited by decreases in our profitability or increases in costs, regulatory changes, capital expenditures or debt servicing requirements.. Any failure to achieve our financial goals could negatively impact our reputation, harm investor confidence in us, and cause the market price of our common stock to decline.. We are defendants in pending litigation that may have a material and adverse impact on our profitability and liquidity.. As noted in Note 20 - \"Commitments and Contingencies\", we are currently party to a number of disputes that involve or may involve litigation. We are not able to predict the ultimate outcome of these disputes or the actual. 19. impact of these matters on our profitability. If we agree to settle these matters or judgments are secured against us, we may incur liabilities that may have a material and adverse impact on our liquidity and earnings.. We may be adversely affected by disruptions in the credit markets, including disruptions that reduce our customers' access to credit and increase the costs to our customers of obtaining credit.. The credit markets have historically been volatile and therefore it is not possible to predict the ability of our clients and customers to access short-term financing and other forms of capital. If a disruption in the credit markets were to occur, it could pose a risk to our business if customers or suppliers are unable to obtain financing to meet payment or delivery obligations to us. In addition, customers may decide to downsize, defer or cancel contracts which could negatively affect our revenues.. Further, as of March 31, 2018, we have $3.6 billion of floating rate debt, of which a portion has been swapped to fixed rate debt. Accordingly, a spike in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows.. Our hedging program is subject to counterparty default risk.. We enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts and interest rate swaps with a number of counterparties. As a result, we are subject to the risk that the counterparty to one or more of these contracts defaults on its performance under the contract. During an economic downturn, the counterparty's financial condition may deteriorate rapidly and with little notice and we may be unable to take action to protect our exposure. In the event of a counterparty default, we could incur significant losses, which may harm our business and financial condition. In the event that one or more of our counterparties becomes insolvent or files for bankruptcy, our ability to eventually recover any losses suffered as a result of that counterparty's default may be limited by the liquidity of the counterparty.. We derive significant revenues and profit from contracts awarded through competitive bidding processes, which can impose substantial costs on us and we may not achieve revenue and profit objectives if we fail to bid on these projects effectively.. We derive significant revenues and profit from government contracts that are awarded through competitive bidding processes. We expect that most of the non-U.S. government business we seek in the foreseeable future will be awarded through competitive bidding. Competitive bidding is expensive and presents a number of risks, including:. • the substantial cost and managerial time and effort that we spend to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may or may not be awarded to us;. • the need to estimate accurately the resources and costs that will be required to service any contracts we are awarded, sometimes in advance of the final determination of their full scope and design;. • the expense and delay that may arise if our competitors protest or challenge awards made to us pursuant to competitive bidding;. • the requirement to resubmit bids protested by our competitors and in the termination, reduction, or modification of the awarded contracts; and. • the opportunity cost of not bidding on and winning other contracts we might otherwise pursue.. If our customers experience financial difficulties, we may not be able to collect our receivables, which would materially and adversely affect our profitability.. Over the course of a long-term contract, a customer's financial condition may decline and lower its ability to pay its obligations. This would cause our cash collections to decrease and bad debt expense to increase. While we may resort to alternative methods to pursue claims or collect receivables, these methods are expensive and time consuming and successful collection is not guaranteed. Failure to collect our receivables or prevail on claims would have an adverse effect on our profitability and cash flows.. 20. Failure to comply with customer contracts or government contracting regulations or requirements could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Contracts with customers may include unique and specialized performance requirements. In particular, our contracts with federal, state, provincial, and local governmental customers are generally subject to various procurement regulations, contract provisions, and other requirements relating to their formation, administration, and performance, including the maintenance of necessary security clearances. Contracts with U.S. government agencies are also subject to audits and investigations, which may include a review of performance on contracts, pricing practices, cost structure, and compliance with applicable laws and regulations.. Any failure on our part to comply with the specific provisions in customer contracts or any violation of government contracting regulations or other requirements could result in the imposition of various civil and criminal penalties, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, and, in the case of government contracts, fines and suspension from future government contracting. Such failures could also cause reputational damage to our business. In addition, we may be subject to qui tam litigation brought by private individuals on behalf of the government relating to government contracts, which could include claims for treble damages. Further, any negative publicity with respect to customer contracts or any related proceedings, regardless of accuracy, may damage our business by harming our ability to compete for new contracts.. Contracts with the U.S. federal government and related agencies are also subject to issues with respect to federal budgetary and spending limits or matters. Any changes to the fiscal policies of the U.S. federal government may decrease overall government funding, result in delays in the procurement of products and services due to lack of funding, cause the U.S. federal government and government agencies to reduce their purchases under existing contracts, or cause them to exercise their rights to terminate contracts at­ will or to abstain from exercising options to renew contracts, any of which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows.. If our customer contracts are terminated, if we are suspended or disbarred from government work, or our ability to compete for new contracts is adversely affected, our financial performance could suffer.. Recent U.S. tax legislation may materially affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Recently enacted U.S. tax legislation has significantly changed the U.S. federal income taxation of U.S. corporations, including by reducing the U.S. corporate income tax rate, limiting interest deductions, permitting immediate expensing of certain capital expenditures, adopting elements of a territorial tax system, imposing a one-time transition tax (or \"repatriation tax\") on all undistributed earnings and profits of certain U.S.-owned foreign corporations, revising the rules governing net operating losses and the rules governing foreign tax credits, and introducing new anti-base erosion provisions. Many of these changes are effective immediately, without any transition periods or grandfathering for existing transactions. The legislation is unclear in many respects and could be subject to potential amendments and technical corrections, as well as interpretations and implementing regulations by the U.S. Department of the Treasury and Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\"), any of which could lessen or increase certain impacts of the legislation. In addition, it is unclear how these U.S. federal income tax changes will affect state and local taxation, which often uses federal taxable income as a starting point for computing state and local tax liabilities.. While our analysis and interpretation of this legislation is ongoing, based on our current evaluation, we recorded a provisional reduction of our deferred income tax liabilities resulting in a material non-cash benefit to earnings during fiscal 2018, the period in which the tax legislation was enacted, which may be subject to further adjustment in subsequent periods throughout fiscal 2019 in accordance with recent interpretive guidance issued by the SEC. Additionally, the repatriation tax resulted in a material amount of additional U.S. tax liability, the amount of which is reflected as tax expense in fiscal 2018, when the tax legislation was enacted, despite the fact that the resulting tax may be paid over eight years. Further, there may be other material adverse effects resulting from the legislation that we have not yet identified.. While some of the changes made by the tax legislation may adversely affect the Company in one or more reporting periods and prospectively, other changes may be beneficial on a going forward basis. We continue to. 21. work with our tax advisors to determine the full impact that the recent tax legislation as a whole will have on us. We urge our investors to consult with their legal and tax advisors with respect to such legislation and the potential tax consequences of investing in our securities.. Changes in our tax rates could affect our future results.. Our future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws or their interpretation. We are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the IRS and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these examinations will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results.. Risks Related to the HPES Merger. We may not realize the anticipated benefits from the HPES Merger.. There can be no assurance that we will be able to realize the intended benefits of the HPES Merger or that we will perform as anticipated. Specifically, the HPES Merger could cause disruptions in the combined company's business, including by disrupting operations or causing customers to delay or to defer decisions to purchase products or renew contracts or to end their relationships. Similarly, it is possible that current or prospective employees could experience uncertainty about their future roles, which could harm our ability to attract and retain key personnel.. Our success in realizing cost and revenues synergies, growth opportunities, and other financial and operating benefits as a result of the HPES Merger, and the timing of this realization, depends on the successful integration of our business operations. Even if we successfully integrate, we cannot predict with certainty if or when these cost and revenue synergies, growth opportunities and benefits will occur, or the extent to which they actually will be achieved. For example, the benefits from the HPES Merger may be offset by costs incurred in integrating CSC and HPES or in required capital expenditures related to the business combination with HPES. In addition, the quantification of previously announced synergies expected to result from the HPES Merger is based on significant estimates and assumptions that are subjective in nature and inherently uncertain. Realization of any benefits and synergies could be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including, without limitation, general economic conditions, increased operating costs, regulatory developments and other risks. The amount of synergies actually realized, if any, and the time periods in which any such synergies are realized, could differ materially from the expected synergies, regardless of whether the two business operations are combined successfully. If the integration is unsuccessful or if we are unable to realize the anticipated synergies and other benefits of the HPES Merger, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business and financial performance could suffer if we do not manage properly the risks associated with the HPES Merger.. The HPES business relies on its ability to retain significant services clients and maintain or increase the level of revenues from these clients. Before the HPES Merger, HPES was in the process of addressing challenges relating to the market shift to cloud-related IT infrastructure, software, and services. HPES was experiencing commoditization in the IT infrastructure services business market that is placing pressure on traditional information technology outsourcing pricing and cost structures. There is also an industrywide shift to highly automated, asset-light delivery of IT infrastructure and applications leading to headcount consolidation. To be successful in addressing these challenges, our integration of HPES must continue executing on the HPES multi-year turnaround plan, which includes a cost reduction initiative to align its costs with its revenue trajectory, a focus on new logo wins and strategic enterprise services, and initiatives to improve execution in sales performance and accountability, contracting practices and pricing. If we do not succeed in these efforts, or if these efforts are more costly or time consuming than expected, the HPES business and results of operations may be adversely affected.. 22. Our results may be negatively affected if we are unable to adequately replace or provide resources formerly provided by HPE, or replace them at the same or lower cost.. HPES has historically received benefits and services from HPE. While HPE agreed to provide certain transition services to us for a period following the HPES Merger, it cannot be assured that we will be able to adequately replace or provide resources formerly provided by HPE, or replace them at the same or lower cost. If we are not able to replace the resources provided by HPE or are unable to replace them without incurring significant additional costs or are delayed in replacing the resources provided by HPE, or if the potential customers or other partners of the HPES business do not view our business relationships as equivalent to HPE's, our results of operations may be harmed.. In connection with the HPES Merger, HPE and DXC and, in some cases, CSC, entered into several agreements that govern the relationship between the parties going forward, including an Employee Matters Agreement, a Tax Matters Agreement, an Intellectual Property Matters Agreement, a Transition Services Agreement, and a Real Estate Matters Agreement. Changes in the strategic direction of HPE, or any successor of HPE, could, over time, impact the positioning and offerings of HPE's brands and programs, including those being made available to us.. The integration following the HPES Merger may present significant challenges.. There is a significant degree of difficulty inherent in the process of integrating HPES and CSC. These difficulties include:. • integration activities while carrying on ongoing operations;. • the challenge of integrating the business cultures of HPES and CSC;. • the challenge and cost of integrating certain IT systems and other systems; and. • the potential difficulty in retaining key officers and other personnel.. The ongoing process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of our businesses. Members of senior management may be required to devote considerable amounts of time to this integration process, which would decrease the time they have to manage our business, service existing businesses and develop new services or strategies. In addition, certain existing contractual restrictions limit the ability to engage in certain integration activities for varying periods after the HPES Merger. There is no assurance we will be able to continue to manage this integration to the extent or in the time horizon anticipated, particularly given the larger scale of the HPES business in comparison to CSC's business. If senior management is not able to timely and effectively manage the integration process, or if any significant business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, our business could suffer. The delay or inability to achieve anticipated integration goals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations after the HPES Merger.. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information of CSC and HPES is not intended to reflect what actual results of operations would have been had CSC and HPES been a combined company for the periods presented, and therefore these results may not be indicative of DXC's future operating performance.. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information presented in this document is for illustrative purposes only and is based in part on certain assumptions regarding the HPES Merger that management believes are reasonable.. The business combination involving CSC and HPES was a reverse merger acquisition, with HPES deemed the legal acquirer in this combination and CSC deemed the acquirer for accounting purposes under GAAP. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information does not reflect the costs of any integration activities or transaction­ related costs or incremental capital spend that management believes are necessary to realize the anticipated synergies from the HPES Merger. Accordingly, the pro forma financial information included in this document does not reflect what DXC's results of operations or operating condition would have been had CSC and HPES been a consolidated entity during all periods presented, or what DXC's results of operations and financial condition will be in the future.. 23. We could have an indemnification obligation to HPE if the stock distribution in connection with the HPES business separation (the \"Distribution\") were determined not to qualify for tax-free treatment, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition.. If, due to any of our representations being untrue or our covenants being breached, the Distribution was determined not to qualify for tax-free treatment under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code (the \"Code\"), HPE would generally be subject to tax as if it sold the DXC common stock in a taxable transaction, which could result in a material tax liability. In addition, each HPE stockholder who received DXC common stock in the Distribution would generally be treated as receiving a taxable Distribution in an amount equal to the fair market value of the DXC common stock received by the stockholder in the Distribution.. In addition, the Distribution would be taxable to HPE (but not to HPE stockholders) pursuant to Section 355(e) of the Code if one or more persons acquire a 50% or greater interest (measured by vote or value) in the stock of HPE or us, directly or indirectly (including through acquisitions of our stock after the HPES Merger), as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the Distribution. In addition, Section 355(e) of the Code generally creates a presumption that any direct or indirect acquisition of stock of HPE or us within two years before or after the Distribution is part of a plan that includes the Distribution, although the parties may be able to rebut that presumption in certain circumstances. The process for determining whether an acquisition is part of a plan under these rules is complex, inherently factual in nature, and subject to a comprehensive analysis of the facts and circumstances of the particular case. If the IRS were to determine that direct or indirect acquisitions of stock of HPE or us, either before or after the Distribution, were part of a plan that includes the Distribution, such determination could cause Section 355(e) of the Code to apply to the Distribution, which could result in a material tax liability.. Under the Tax Matters Agreement, we were required to indemnify HPE against taxes resulting from the Distribution or certain aspects of the HPES Merger arising as a result of an Everett Tainting Act (as defined in the Tax Matters Agreement). If we were required to indemnify HPE for taxes resulting from an Everett Tainting Act, that indemnification obligation would likely be substantial and could materially adversely affect our financial condition.. To address compliance with Section 355(e) of the Code, in the Tax Matters Agreement, we agreed to certain restrictions that may limit our ability to pursue certain strategic transactions or engage in other transactions, including stock issuances, certain asset dispositions, mergers, consolidations and other strategic transactions for a period of time following the HPES Merger. As a result, we may determine to forgo certain transactions that otherwise could be advantageous.. If the HPES Merger does not qualify as a reorganization under Section 368(a) of the Code, CSC's former stockholders may incur significant tax liabilities.. The completion of the HPES Merger was conditioned upon the receipt by HPE and CSC of opinions of counsel to the effect that, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the HPES Merger will qualify as a \"reorganization\" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code (the \"HPES Merger Tax Opinions\"). The parties did not seek a ruling from the IRS regarding such qualification. The HPES Merger Tax Opinions were based on current law and relied upon various factual representations and assumptions, as well as certain undertakings made by HPE, HPES and CSC. If any of those representations or assumptions is untrue or incomplete in any material respect or any of those undertakings is not complied with, or if the facts upon which the HPES Merger Tax Opinions are based are materially different from the actual facts that existed at the time of the HPES Merger, the conclusions reached in the HPES Merger Tax Opinions could be adversely affected and the HPES Merger may not qualify for tax-free treatment. Opinions of counsel are not binding on the IRS or the courts. No assurance can be given that the IRS will not challenge the conclusions set forth in the HPES Merger Tax Opinions or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. If the HPES Merger were determined to be taxable, previous holders of CSC common stock would be considered to have made a taxable disposition of their shares to HPES, and such stockholders would generally recognize taxable gain or loss on their receipt of HPES common stock in the HPES Merger.. 24. We assumed certain material pension benefit obligations in connection with the HPES Merger. These liabilities and the related future funding obligations could restrict our cash available for operations, capital expenditures and other requirements, and may materially adversely affect our financial condition and liquidity.. Pursuant to the Employee Matters Agreement entered into in connection with the HPES Merger, while HPE retained all U.S. defined benefit pension plan liabilities, DXC retained all liabilities relating to the International Retirement Guarantee (\"IRG\") programs for all HPES employees. The IRG is a non-qualified retirement plan for employees who transfer internationally at the request of the HPE Group. The IRG determines the country of guarantee, which is generally the country in which an employee has spent the longest portion of his or her career with the HPE Group, and the present value of a full career benefit for the employee under the HPE defined benefit pension plan and social security or social insurance system in the country of guarantee. The IRG then offsets the present value of the retirement benefits from plans and social insurance systems in the countries in which the employee earned retirement benefits for his or her total period of HPE Group employment. The net benefit value is payable as a single sum as soon as practicable after termination or retirement. This liability could restrict cash available for our operations, capital expenditures and other requirements, and may materially affect our financial condition and liquidity.. In addition, pursuant to the Employee Matters Agreement, DXC assumed certain other defined benefit pension liabilities in a number of non-U.S. countries (including the United Kingdom, Germany and Switzerland). Unless otherwise agreed or required by local law, where a defined benefit pension plan was maintained solely by a member of the HPES business, DXC assumed all assets and liabilities arising out of those non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans, and where a defined benefit pension plan was not maintained solely by a member of the HPES business, DXC assumed all assets and liabilities for those eligible HPES employees in connection with the HPES Merger. These liabilities and the related future payment obligations could restrict cash available for our operations, capital expenditures and other requirements, and may materially affect our financial condition and liquidity.. Risks Related to the Proposed USPS Separation and Mergers. The proposed USPS Separation and Mergers are contingent upon the satisfaction of a number of conditions, and the USPS Separation and Mergers may not be consummated on the terms or timeline currently contemplated.. On October 11, 2017, our board of directors unanimously approved a plan to spin off our USPS business and combine it with Vencore and KeyPoint to form a separate, independent publicly traded company named Perspecta Inc. (\"Perspecta\") to serve U.S. public sector clients.. As previously announced, aspects of the proposed USPS Separation and Mergers are expected to include: (1) the transfer by DXC of certain subsidiary entities holding our USPS business to Perspecta (the \"USPS Reorganization\"); (2) the receipt by DXC of cash and/or Perspecta debt securities in an aggregate amount of $984 million, which reflects the transaction consideration of $1.05 billion less $66 million in principal amount of debt that will remain outstanding at a subsidiary of Perspecta as part of the USPS Reorganization (the \"Distribution Consideration\"); (3) the distribution by DXC to its stockholders of all of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of Perspecta by way of a pro rata dividend (the \"Distribution,\" and together with the USPS Reorganization, the \"USPS Separation\"); and (4) the acquisition of Vencore and KeyPoint by Perspecta in exchange for Perspecta common shares and approximately $400 million of cash merger consideration (the \"Mergers\"). Upon consummation of the USPS Separation and Mergers, DXC shareholders are expected to own approximately 86% of Perspecta's common shares, and funds managed by Veritas Capital and its affiliates are expected to own approximately 14% of the Perspecta's common shares. In addition, a subsidiary of Perspecta will retain contractual capitalized lease obligations with an aggregate outstanding balance up to $300 million, net of cash payments from DXC.. The terms and conditions of the USPS Separation and Mergers are as set forth in the Perspecta Merger Agreement and, further to the Perspecta Merger Agreement, other separation agreements to be entered into by and between DXC and Perspecta prior to completion of the USPS Separation and Mergers (the \"Separation Agreements\").. 25. The consummation of the Mergers is subject to certain conditions, including (i) the completion of the USPS Reorganization, the payment of the Distribution Consideration, and the completion of the Distribution, (ii) the expiration of the applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, which was satisfied on December 22, 2017, (iii) the effectiveness of the registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which was satisfied on May 2, 2018, and the approval for listing on the New York Stock Exchange or the NASDAQ Global Market of the shares of Perspecta common stock to be issued in the Distribution, which was satisfied on April 30, 2018, (iv) the accuracy of the parties' representations and warranties and the performance of their respective covenants contained in the Perspecta Merger Agreement, and (v) our receipt of an opinion of tax counsel to the effect that the USPS Separation should qualify as a tax-free transaction for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. Additionally, the Perspecta Merger Agreement contains certain termination rights for DXC, Vencore and KeyPoint. The Perspecta Merger Agreement further provides that, if the Distribution is not completed in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Separation Agreements on or before October 1, 2018, a termination fee of $50 million may be payable by DXC to Vencore and KeyPoint upon termination of the Perspecta Merger Agreement under specified circumstances.. For these and other reasons, the USPS Separation and Mergers may not be completed on the terms or timeline contemplated, if at all, and we may incur significant costs.. The proposed USPS Separation and Mergers may result in disruptions to relationships with customers and other business partners or may not achieve the intended results.. If we complete the proposed USPS Separation and Mergers, there can be no assurance that we will be able to realize the intended benefits of the transactions or that the combined company will perform as anticipated. Specifically, the proposed transactions could cause disruptions in our remaining businesses, the USPS business and the Vencore and KeyPoint businesses, including by disrupting operations or causing customers to delay or to defer decisions or to end their relationships, or otherwise limiting the ability to compete for or perform certain contracts or services or other potential effects relating to organizational conflict of interest (\"OCI\") issues, including action to mitigate or avoid OCIs or lost business opportunity. If the USPS business and the Vencore and KeyPoint businesses face difficulties in integrating their businesses, or the Vencore and KeyPoint businesses face difficulties in their businesses generally, the USPS Separation and Mergers, if completed, may not achieve the intended results.. Further, it is possible that current or prospective employees of the USPS business or the Vencore and KeyPoint businesses could experience uncertainty about their future roles with the combined company, which could harm the ability of the USPS business or the Vencore and KeyPoint businesses to attract and retain key personnel. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our remaining businesses, the USPS business or the Vencore and KeyPoint businesses, the financial condition of such businesses and their results of operations and prospects.. The proposed USPS Separation and Mergers could result in substantial tax liability to DXC and our stockholders.. Among the conditions to completing the USPS Separation and Mergers will be our receipt of a legal opinion of tax counsel substantially to the effect that, for U.S. federal income tax purposes: (i) the USPS Separation should qualify as a \"reorganization\" within the meaning of Section 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"); (ii) each of DXC and Perspecta should be a \"party to a reorganization\" within the meaning of Section 368(b) of the Code with respect to the USPS Separation; (iii) the Distribution should qualify as (1) a tax-free spin-off, resulting in nonrecognition under Sections 355(a), 361 and 368(a) of the Code, and (2) a transaction in which the stock distributed thereby should constitute \"qualified property\" for purposes of Sections 355(d), 355(e) and 361(c) of the Code; and (iv) none of the Mergers should cause Section 355(e) of the Code to apply to the Distribution.. The opinion of counsel we receive will be based on, among other things, various factual representations and assumptions, as well as certain undertakings made by DXC and Perspecta. If any of those representations or assumptions is untrue or incomplete in any material respect or any of those undertakings is not complied with, the. 26. conclusions reached in the opinion could be adversely affected and the USPS Separation may not qualify for tax-free treatment. Furthermore, an opinion of counsel is not binding on the IRS or the courts. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the IRS will not challenge the conclusions set forth in the opinion or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. If, notwithstanding our receipt of the opinion, the USPS Separation is determined to be taxable, we would recognize taxable gain as if we had sold the shares of Perspecta in a taxable sale for its fair market value, which could result in a substantial tax liability. In addition, if the USPS Separation is determined to be taxable, each holder of our common stock who receives shares of Perspecta would generally be treated as receiving a taxable distribution in an amount equal to the fair market value of the shares received, which could materially increase such holder's tax liability.. Even if the USPS Separation otherwise qualifies as a tax-free transaction, the Distribution could be taxable to us (but not to our shareholders) in certain circumstances if future significant acquisitions of our stock or the stock of Perspecta are deemed to be part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the Distribution. In this event, the resulting tax liability could be substantial. In connection with the USPS Separation, we expect to enter into a tax matters agreement with Perspecta, under which it will agree not to undertake any transaction without our consent that could reasonably be expected to cause the USPS Separation to be taxable to us and to indemnify us for any tax liabilities resulting from such transactions. These obligations and potential tax liabilities could be substantial.. Risk Relating to the NPS Separation (defined below). The NPS Separation could result in significant tax liabilities to DXC and former CSC stockholders that received CSRA Inc. stock in the Separation.. Prior to the HPES Merger, CSC separated its U.S. public sector business, National Public Sector (\"NPS\") on November 27, 2015 (the \"NPS Separation\"). In connection with the NPS Separation, CSC received an opinion of counsel substantially to the effect that, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the NPS Separation qualified as a tax-free transaction to CSC and holders of CSC common stock under Section 355 and related provisions of the Code. If, notwithstanding the conclusions expressed in that opinion, the NPS Separation were determined to be taxable, CSC and CSC stockholders that received CSRA stock in the NPS Separation could incur significant tax liabilities.. Under Section 355(e) of the Code, the NPS Separation would generally be taxable to us (but not to former CSC stockholders) if one or more persons acquire a 50% or greater interest (measured by vote or value) in the stock of CSC, directly or indirectly (including through acquisition of our stock after the completion of the HPES Merger), as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the NPS Separation. In general, an acquisition will be presumed to be part of a plan with the NPS Separation if the acquisition occurs within two years before or after the NPS Separation. This presumption may, however, be rebutted based upon an analysis of the facts and circumstances related to the NPS Separation and the particular acquisition in question.. The completion of the HPES Merger was conditioned upon the receipt of CSC of an opinion of counsel to the effect that the HPES Merger should not cause Section 355(e) of the Code to apply to the NPS Separation or otherwise affect the qualification of the NPS Separation as a tax-free distribution under Section 355 of the Code (the \"Separation Tax Opinion\"). The Separation Tax Opinion was based on current law and relied upon various factual representations and assumptions, as well as certain undertakings made by CSC. If any of those representations or assumptions is untrue or incomplete in any material respect or any of those undertakings is not complied with, or if the facts upon which the Separation Tax Opinion is based are materially different from the actual facts that existed at the time of the HPES Merger, the conclusions reached in the Separation Tax Opinion could be adversely affected and the Separation may not qualify for tax-free treatment. No assurance can be given that the IRS will not challenge the conclusions set forth in the Separation Tax Opinion or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. Further, in light of the requirements of Section 355(e) of the Code, we might determine to forgo certain transactions, including share repurchases, stock issuances, certain asset dispositions, mergers, consolidations and other strategic transactions, for some period of time following the HPES Merger.. 27"
