[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. Our business is subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties described below. You should read the following risk factors carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the risks described below, or elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K were to occur, our financial condition and results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our common stock could decline. Additionally, if other risks not presently known to us, or that we do not currently believe to be significant, occur or become significant, our financial condition and results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our common stock could decline.. Demand for our services is cyclical and vulnerable to economic downturns affecting the industries we serve. Demand for our services has been, and will likely continue to be, cyclical in nature and vulnerable to downturns in the economy and telecommunications industry. During times of uncertain or slowing economic conditions, our customers often reduce their capital expenditures and defer or cancel pending projects. In addition, uncertain or adverse economic conditions that create volatility in the credit and equity markets may reduce the availability of debt or equity financing for our customers causing them to reduce capital spending. Any reduction in capital spending or deferral or cancellation of projects by our existing or prospective customers could reduce demand for, or the timing of, our services, adversely affecting our operations, cash flows, and liquidity. In addition, these conditions make it difficult to estimate our customers' demand for our services and add uncertainty to the determination of our backlog.. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from master service agreements and other long-term contracts which may be canceled by our customers upon notice, do not guaranty a specific amount of work, or which we may be unable to renew on negotiated terms. During fiscal 2017, we derived approximately 87.0% of our revenues from master service agreements and other long-term contracts. The majority of these contracts are cancelable by our customers upon notice regardless of whether or not we are in default. In addition, our customers generally have no obligation to assign a specific amount of work to us under these agreements. Consequently, projected expenditures by customers are not assured until a definitive work order is placed with us and the work completed. This makes it difficult to estimate our customers' demand for our services. Furthermore, our customers generally require competitive bidding of these contracts upon expiration of their terms. We may not be able to renew a contract if our competitors reduce their prices and underbid us in order to procure business, or we could be required to lower the price charged for work under the contract being rebid in order to retain the contract. The loss of work obtained through master service agreements and other long-term contracts or the reduced profitability of such work could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, and liquidity.. The telecommunications industry has experienced, and may continue to experience, rapid technological, structural, and competitive changes that could reduce the need for our services and adversely affect our revenues. We generate the majority of our revenues from customers in the telecommunications industry. The telecommunications industry is characterized by rapid technological change, intense competition and changing consumer demands. New technologies, or upgrades to existing technologies by customers, could reduce the need for our services by enabling telecommunication companies to improve their networks without physically upgrading them. New, developing, or existing services could displace the wireline or wireless systems that we install and that our customers use to deliver services to consumers and businesses. Reduced demand for our services or a loss of a significant customer due to technological changes could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, and liquidity.. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of customers, and the loss of one or more of these customers through competition from other service providers, industry consolidation or otherwise could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Our customer base is highly concentrated, with our top five customers in each of fiscal 2017, 2016, and 2015 accounting for approximately 76.1%, 69.7%, and 61.1% of our total revenues, respectively. Revenues under our contracts with significant customers may vary from period to period depending on the timing or volume of work that those customers order or perform with their in-house service organizations. Our revenue could significantly decline if we were to lose one or more of our significant customers or if one or more of our customers were to elect to do the work we provide with their. 9. Table of Contents. in-house service teams or shift a significant portion of that work to another service provider. Additionally, the telecommunications industry has been characterized by consolidation. In the case of a consolidation, merger or acquisition of an existing customer, the amount of work we receive could be reduced if procurement strategies employed by the surviving entity change from those of the existing customer or the surviving entity chooses to use a different service provider. The loss of work from a significant customer could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, and liquidity.. The specialty contracting services industry in which we operate is highly competitive. We compete with other specialty contractors, including numerous small, privately owned companies, as well as several large corporations that may have financial, technical, and marketing resources exceeding ours. Relatively few barriers to entry exist in the markets in which we operate. Any organization may become a competitor if they have adequate financial resources, access to technical expertise, and the necessary equipment and materials. Additionally, our competitors may develop expertise, experience and resources to provide services that are equal or superior to our services in both price and quality, and we may not be able to maintain or enhance our competitive position. We also face competition from the in-house service organizations of our customers whose personnel perform some of the services that we provide. We can offer no assurance that our existing or prospective customers will continue to outsource specialty contracting services in the future. Our results of operations, cash flows, and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in bidding on projects, if our ability to win projects requires that we settle for reduced margins or if our existing or prospective customers reduce the amount of specialty contracting services that are outsourced.. Our profitability is based on our delivering services within the estimated costs established when pricing our contracts. We perform a majority of our services under master service agreements and other agreements that contain customer-specified service requirements, having discrete pricing for individual tasks. Revenue is recognized under these arrangements based on units-of-delivery as each unit is completed. Due to the fixed price nature of these contracts, our profitability could decline if our actual cost to complete each unit exceeds our original estimates. The remainder of our services, representing less than 5% of our contract revenues during each of fiscal 2017 and 2016 and less than 10% of our contract revenues during fiscal 2015, are performed under contracts using the cost-to-cost measure of the percentage of completion method of accounting. Revenue is recognized under these arrangements based on the ratio of contract costs incurred to date to total estimated contract costs. Application of the percentage of completion method of accounting requires the use of estimates of costs to be incurred for the performance of the contract. The cost estimation process is based on the knowledge and experience of our project managers and financial professionals. Due to the fixed price nature of our contracts, any changes in original cost estimates, or the assumptions underpinning such estimates, may result in changes to costs, thereby reducing our profitability. We recognize these changes in the period in which they are determined, potentially resulting in a reduction or elimination of previously recognized earnings.. We have a significant amount of accounts receivable and costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings, which could become uncollectible. We extend credit to our customers as a result of performing work under contract prior to billing for that work. We periodically assess the credit risk of our customers and regularly monitor the timeliness of their payments. However, slowing conditions in the industries we serve, bankruptcies or financial difficulties within the telecommunications sector may impair the financial condition of one or more of our customers and hinder their ability to pay us on a timely basis or at all. As of July 29, 2017, we had net accounts receivable of $369.8 million and costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings of $389.3 million. The failure or delay in payment by our customers could reduce our expected cash flows and adversely affect our liquidity and profitability.. We retain the risk of loss for certain insurance-related liabilities. Within our insurance program, we retain the risk of loss, up to certain limits, for matters related to automobile liability, general liability (including damages associated with underground facility locating services), workers' compensation, and employee group health. We are self-insured for the majority of all claims because most claims against us fall below the deductibles under our insurance policies. We estimate and develop our accrual for these claims, including losses incurred but not reported, based on facts, circumstances and historical evidence. However, the estimate for accrued insurance claims remains subject to uncertainty as it depends in part on factors not known with precision. These factors include the estimated development of claims, the payment pattern of claims incurred, changes in the medical condition of claimants, and other factors such as inflation, tort reform or other legislative changes, unfavorable jury decisions and court interpretations. Should the cost of actual claims exceed what we have anticipated, our recorded reserves may not be sufficient, and we could incur substantial additional unanticipated charges. See Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Critical Accounting Policies  -  Accrued Insurance Claims, and Note 8, Accrued Insurance Claims, in Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Our backlog is subject to reduction or cancellation. Our backlog consists of the estimated uncompleted portion of services to be performed under contractual obligations with our customers. In many instances, our customers are not contractually committed to procure specific volumes of services under a contract and may cancel a contract for convenience. Our backlog estimates represent amounts under master service agreements and other contractual agreements for services projected to be. 10. Table of Contents. performed over the terms of the contracts and are based on contract terms, our historical experience with customers and, more generally, our experience in similar procurements. The significant majority of our backlog estimates comprise services under master service agreements and other long-term contracts. Revenue estimates included in our backlog have in the past and may in the future be subject to change because of project accelerations, contract cancellations, or delays due to various factors, including, but not limited to, commercial issues such as permitting, engineering changes, incremental documentation requirements, difficult job site conditions, and adverse weather. These factors can also cause revenue to be realized in different periods or in different amounts from those originally reflected in backlog. Our estimates of a customer's requirements during a particular future period may prove to be inaccurate. As a result, our backlog as of any particular date is an uncertain indicator of future revenues and earnings.. We may incur impairment charges on goodwill or other intangible assets. We account for goodwill and other intangibles in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\") Accounting Standards Codification (\"ASC\") Topic 350, Intangibles-Goodwill and Other (\"ASC Topic 350\"). Our goodwill resides in multiple reporting units. We assess goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually, as of the first day of the fourth fiscal quarter of each year in order to determine whether their carrying value exceeds their fair value. In addition, reporting units are tested on an interim basis if an event occurs or circumstances change between annual tests that would more likely than not reduce their fair value below carrying value. If we determine the fair value of the goodwill or other indefinite-lived intangible assets is less than their carrying value as a result of the tests, an impairment loss is recognized. Any such write-down would adversely affect our results of operations.. The profitability of individual reporting units may suffer periodically due to downturns in customer demand and the level of overall economic activity, including in particular construction and housing activity. Our customers may reduce capital expenditures and defer or cancel pending projects during times of slowing economic conditions. Additionally, adverse conditions in the economy and future volatility in the equity and credit markets could impact the valuation of our reporting units. The cyclical nature of our business, the high level of competition existing within our industry, and the concentration of our revenues from a limited number of customers may also cause results to vary. These factors may affect individual reporting units disproportionately, relative to the company as a whole. As a result, the performance of one or more of the reporting units could decline, resulting in an impairment of goodwill or intangible assets. In addition, adverse changes to the key valuation assumptions contributing to the fair value of our reporting units could result in an impairment of goodwill or intangible assets.. We may be subject to periodic litigation and regulatory proceedings, including Fair Labor Standards Act and state wage and hour class action lawsuits, which may adversely affect our business and financial performance. From time to time, we are involved in lawsuits and regulatory actions brought or threatened against us in the ordinary course of business. These actions and proceedings may involve claims for, among other things, compensation for alleged personal injury, workers' compensation, employment discrimination, breach of contract or property damage. In addition, we may be subject to class action lawsuits, including those involving allegations of violations of the Fair Labor Standards Act and state wage and hour laws. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation, we cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such actions or proceedings. The outcome of litigation, particularly class action lawsuits and regulatory actions, is difficult to assess or quantify, as plaintiffs may seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts in these types of lawsuits, and the magnitude of the potential loss may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. In addition, plaintiffs in many types of actions may seek punitive damages, civil penalties, consequential damages or other losses, or injunctive or declaratory relief. These proceedings could result in substantial cost and may require us to devote substantial resources to defend ourselves. The ultimate resolution of these matters through settlement, mediation, or court judgment could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. For a description of current legal proceedings, see Item 3, Legal Proceedings, and Note 17, Commitments and Contingencies, in Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. The loss of one or more of our executive officers or other key employees could adversely affect our business. We depend on the services of our executive officers and the senior management of our subsidiaries who have many years of experience in our industry. The loss of any one of them could negatively affect our customer relationships or the ability to execute our business strategy, adversely affecting our operations. Although we have entered into employment agreements with certain of our executive officers and other key employees, we cannot guarantee that any of them or other key management personnel will remain employed by us for any length of time. We do not carry \"key-person\" life insurance on any of our employees.. Our business is labor intensive, and we may be unable to attract and retain qualified employees. Our ability to employ, train, and retain skilled personnel is necessary to operate our business and maintain productivity and profitability. We cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain the skilled labor force necessary to operate efficiently and support our growth strategy. Our ability to do so depends on a number of factors, such as general rates of employment, competitive demands for employees possessing the skills we need and the level of compensation required to hire and retain qualified employees. In addition, our. 11. Table of Contents. labor costs may increase when there is a shortage in the supply of skilled personnel and we may be unable to pass these increases on to our customers due to the long-term nature of our contracts, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations.. We may be unable to secure sufficient independent subcontractors to fulfill our obligations, or our independent subcontractors may fail to satisfy their obligations to us. We contract with independent subcontractors to help manage fluctuations in work volumes and reduce the amount that we would otherwise expend on fixed assets and working capital. If we are unable to secure independent subcontractors at a reasonable cost or at all, we may be delayed in completing work under a contract or the cost of completing the work may increase. In addition, we may have disputes with these independent subcontractors arising from, among other things, the quality and timeliness of the work they have performed. We may incur additional costs in order to correct such shortfalls in the work performed by subcontractors. Any of these factors could adversely affect the quality of our service, our ability to perform under certain contracts and our relationship with our customers, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows, and liquidity.. The nature of our business exposes us to warranty claims, which may reduce our profitability. We typically warrant the services we provide, guaranteeing the work performed against defects in workmanship and the material we supply. Historically, warranty claims have not been material as our customers evaluate much of the work we perform for defects shortly after work is completed. However, if warranty claims occur, we could be required to repair or replace warrantied items at our cost. In addition, our customers may elect to repair or replace the warrantied item by using the services of another provider and require us to pay for the cost of the repair or replacement. Costs incurred as a result of warranty claims could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. Higher fuel prices may increase our cost of doing business, and we may not be able to pass along added costs to customers. Fuel prices fluctuate based on market events outside of our control. Most of our contracts do not allow us to adjust our pricing for higher fuel costs during a contract term and we may be unable to secure price increases reflecting rising costs when renewing or bidding contracts. As a result, higher fuel costs may negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Although we may hedge our anticipated fuel purchases with the use of financial instruments, underlying commodity costs have been volatile in recent periods. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that, at any given time, we will have financial instruments in place to hedge against the impact of increased fuel costs. To the extent we enter into hedge transactions, declines in fuel prices below the levels established in the financial instruments may require us to make payments, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our results of operations fluctuate seasonally. Our revenues and results of operations exhibit seasonality as we perform a significant portion of our work outdoors. Consequently, extended periods of adverse weather impact our operations. Adverse weather is most likely to occur during the winter season, our fiscal quarters ending in January and April. In addition, a disproportionate percentage of paid holidays fall within the fiscal quarter ending in January, which decreases the number of available workdays. Because of these factors, we are most likely to experience periods of reduced revenue and profitability during our fiscal quarters ending in January and April.. Our financial results include certain estimates and assumptions that may differ from actual results. In preparing our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, a number of estimates and assumptions are made by management that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements. These estimates and assumptions must be made because certain information that is used in the preparation of our financial statements is either dependent on future events or cannot be calculated with a high degree of precision from available data. Estimates are primarily used in our assessment of the purchase price allocations of businesses acquired, the fair value of reporting units for goodwill impairment analysis, the assessment of impairment of intangibles and other long-lived assets, asset lives used in computing depreciation and amortization, accrued insurance claims, income taxes, accruals for contingencies, including legal matters, recognition of revenue for costs and estimated earnings under the percentage of completion method of accounting, allowance for doubtful accounts, and stock-based compensation expense for performance-based stock awards. In some instances, we must exercise significant judgment for these estimates. At the time they are made, we believe that such estimates are fair when considered in conjunction with our consolidated financial position and results of operations taken as a whole. However, actual results could differ from those estimates and such differences may be material to our financial statements.. Failure to integrate future acquisitions successfully could adversely affect our business and results of operations. As part of our growth strategy, we may acquire companies that expand, complement, or diversify our business. We regularly review various opportunities and periodically engage in discussions regarding possible acquisitions. Future acquisitions may divert management's attention from our existing business and expose us to operational challenges and risks, including retaining management and other key employees; unanticipated issues in integrating information, communications and other systems; assumption of unknown liabilities or liabilities for which inadequate reserves have been established; consolidating corporate. 12. Table of Contents. and administrative infrastructures; and failure to manage successfully and coordinate the growth of the combined company. These factors could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management's time and energy, which could materially affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Fluctuations in our tax obligations and effective tax rate may cause volatility in our operating results. We are subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions in which we operate and we determine and provide for income taxes in each tax jurisdiction. Changes in the mix and level of earnings among jurisdictions could materially impact our effective tax rate in a financial statement period. We are also subject to tax audits by various taxing authorities. During fiscal 2016, we were notified by the Internal Revenue Service that our federal income tax return for fiscal 2014 was selected for examination. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax liabilities. We believe our tax positions are properly supported, although the final timing and resolution of tax examinations are subject to uncertainty as the taxing authorities may disagree with our positions. In addition, our effective tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax regulations or changes to existing accounting rules. For example, FASB Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-09, Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting (\"ASU 2016-09\"), which is effective for us beginning with the fiscal quarter ending October 28, 2017, will likely result in increased volatility in our income tax provision. See Note 1, Basis of Presentation and Accounting Policies, in Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10 - K for additional information regarding ASU 2016-09. Any of the factors described above could cause volatility in our operating results or otherwise impact our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.. Our bank credit facility imposes restrictions that may prevent us from engaging in beneficial transactions. We have a credit agreement with a syndicate of banks, which provides for a $450.0 million revolving facility, $385.0 million in aggregate term loan facilities, and contains a sublimit of $200.0 million for the issuance of letters of credit. As of July 29, 2017, we had $367.7 million outstanding under the term loans and $48.7 million of outstanding letters of credit issued under the credit agreement. We did not have any outstanding borrowings under the revolving facility as of July 29, 2017. The credit agreement contains covenants that restrict or limit our ability to, among other things: make certain payments, including the payment of dividends, redeem or repurchase our capital stock, incur additional indebtedness and issue preferred stock, make investments or create liens, enter into sale and leaseback transactions, merge or consolidate with another entity, sell certain assets, and enter into transactions with affiliates. In addition, the credit agreement requires us to comply with a consolidated leverage ratio and a consolidated interest coverage ratio. These covenants may prevent us from engaging in transactions that benefit us, including responding to changing business and economic conditions or securing additional financing, if needed. In addition, a default under our credit agreement could result in the acceleration of our obligations under both the credit agreement and the indenture governing our $485.0 million of 0.75% convertible senior notes due September 15, 2021 as a result of cross-acceleration and cross-default provisions.. The convertible note hedge transactions and the warrant transactions may affect the value of our common stock. In connection with the issuance of our 0.75% convertible senior notes due September 15, 2021 (the \"Notes\"), we entered into privately negotiated convertible note hedge transactions with the hedge counterparties. The convertible note hedge transactions cover, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, the number of shares of common stock that initially underlay the Notes sold in the offering. We also entered into separate, privately negotiated warrant transactions with the hedge counterparties relating to the same number of shares of our common stock, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments.. The hedge counterparties and/or their affiliates may modify their hedge positions with respect to the convertible note hedge transactions and the warrant transactions from time to time. They may do so by purchasing and/or selling shares of our common stock and/or other securities of ours, including the Notes, in privately-negotiated transactions and/or open-market transactions or by entering into and/or unwinding various over-the-counter derivative transactions with respect to our common stock. The hedge counterparties are likely to modify their hedge positions during any observation period related to a conversion of the Notes or following any repurchase of Notes by us on any fundamental change (as defined in the indenture governing the Notes) repurchase date.. The effect, if any, of these transactions on the market price of our common stock will depend on a variety of factors, including market conditions, and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, the hedge counterparties and/or their affiliates may choose to engage in, or to discontinue engaging in, any of these transactions with or without notice at any time, and their decisions will be at their sole discretion and not within our control.. We are subject to counterparty risk with respect to the convertible note hedge transactions. The hedge counterparties are financial institutions, and we are subject to the risk that they might default under the convertible note hedge transactions. Our exposure to the credit risk of the hedge counterparties is unsecured by any collateral. Global economic conditions have from time to time resulted in failure or financial difficulties for many financial institutions. If a hedge counterparty becomes subject. 13. Table of Contents. to insolvency proceedings, we will become an unsecured creditor in those proceedings with a claim equal to our exposure at that time under our transactions with that counterparty. Our exposure will depend on many factors but, generally, our exposure will increase in correlation to the increase in the market price and volatility of our common stock. In addition, upon a default by a hedge counterparty, we may suffer adverse tax consequences and more dilution than we currently anticipate with respect to our common stock. We can provide no assurances as to the financial stability or viability of any hedge counterparty.. Conversion of the Notes or exercise of the warrants evidenced by the warrant transactions may dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders, including holders who had previously converted their Notes. At our election, we may settle Notes tendered for conversion entirely or partly in shares of our common stock. Further, the warrants evidenced by the warrant transactions are expected to be settled on a net-share basis. As a result, the conversion of some or all of the Notes or the exercise of some or all of such warrants may dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such conversion of the Notes or such exercise of the warrants could adversely affect the then-prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the Notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the Notes could depress the price of our common stock.. Many of our telecommunications customers are highly regulated, and new regulations or changes to existing regulations may adversely impact their demand for and the profitability of our specialty contracting services. The Federal Communications Commission regulates many of our telecommunications customers and may alter its application of current regulations and impose additional regulations. If existing or new regulations adversely affect our telecommunications customers and the profitability of the services they provide, our customers may reduce expenditures, which could affect the demand for specialty contracting services.. We may incur liabilities or suffer negative financial impact relating to occupational health and safety matters. Our operations are subject to stringent laws and regulations governing workplace safety. Our workers frequently operate heavy machinery and work near high voltage lines, subjecting them and others to potential injury or death. If any of our workers or other persons are injured or killed in the course of our operations, we could be found to have violated relevant safety regulations, resulting in a fine or, in extreme cases, criminal sanction. In addition, if our safety record were to deteriorate substantially over time, customers could decide to cancel our contracts or not award us future business.. Our failure to comply with environmental laws could result in significant liabilities. A significant portion of the work we perform is associated with the underground networks of our customers. We could be subject to potential material liabilities in the event we cause or are responsible for a release of hazardous substances or other environmental damage. Liabilities for contamination or exposure to hazardous materials, or failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations, could result in significant costs including clean-up costs, fines, criminal sanctions for violations, and third-party claims for property damage or personal injury. These costs as well as any direct impact to ongoing operations could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. In addition, new laws and regulations, altered enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or leaks, or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require us to incur significant costs or create new or increased liabilities that could harm our financial condition and results of operations.. We may not have access in the future to sufficient funding to finance desired growth. Using cash for operational growth, capital expenditures, share repurchases, or acquisitions may limit our financial flexibility and make us more likely to seek additional capital through future debt or equity financings. Our existing credit agreement contains significant restrictions on our operational and financial flexibility, including our ability to incur additional debt. In addition, if we seek to incur more debt, we may be required to agree to additional covenants that further limit our operational and financial flexibility. If we pursue additional debt or equity financings, we cannot be certain that such funding will be available on terms acceptable to us or at all.. Our capital expenditures may fluctuate because of changes in business requirements. Our anticipated capital expenditure requirements may vary from time to time because of changes in our business. Increased capital expenditures will use cash flow and may increase our borrowing costs if cash for capital expenditures is not available from operations.. Increases in our health care costs could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. The costs of employee health care have been increasing in recent years due to rising health care costs, legislative changes, and general economic conditions. We retain the risk of loss, up to certain limits, under our employee group health care plan. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively, the \"Health Care Reform Laws\") have had a significant impact on employers, insurers and others associated with the health care industry, and are expected to continue to increase our employee health care costs. This legislation requires employers like us to offer health care benefits to full-time employees or face potential annual penalties. To avoid the penalties, employers must offer health benefits providing a minimum level of coverage and limit the amount that employees are charged for the coverage. Because of the breadth and complexity of these laws, as well as other health care reform legislation considered by Congress and state. 14. Table of Contents. legislations, we cannot predict with certainty the future effect of these laws on us. A continued increase in health care costs or additional costs incurred as a result of the Health Care Reform Laws or other future health care reform laws imposed by Congress or state legislations could have a negative impact on our financial position and results of operations.. Several of our subsidiaries participate in multiemployer pension plans under which we could incur material liabilities in certain circumstances. Pursuant to collective bargaining agreements, several of our subsidiaries participate in various multiemployer pension plans that provide defined pension benefits to covered employees. Because of the nature of multiemployer plans, there are risks associated with participation in these plans that differ from single-employer plans. Assets contributed by an employer to a multiemployer plan are not segregated into a separate account and are not restricted to providing benefits only to employees of that contributing employer. Under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (\"ERISA\"), absent an applicable exemption, a contributing employer to an underfunded multiemployer plan is liable upon withdrawal from a plan for its proportionate share of the plan's unfunded vested liability. In addition, if any of the plans in which we participate become significantly underfunded, as defined by the Pension Protection Act of 2006, we may be required to make additional cash contributions in the form of higher contribution rates or surcharges related to the underfunding of those plans.. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016, one of our subsidiaries ceased operations. This subsidiary previously contributed to a multiemployer pension plan, the Pension, Hospitalization and Benefit Plan of the Electrical Industry - Pension Trust Fund (the \"Plan\"). In October 2016, the Plan demanded payment for a claimed withdrawal liability of approximately $13.0 million. In December 2016, we submitted a formal request to the Plan seeking review of the Plan's withdrawal liability determination. We are disputing the claim of a withdrawal liability demanded by the Plan as we believe there is a statutory exemption available under ERISA for multiemployer pension plans that primarily cover employees in the building and construction industry. The Plan has taken the position that the work at issue does not qualify for the statutory exemption. We have submitted this dispute to arbitration, as required by ERISA, with a hearing expected sometime in 2018. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in asserting the statutory exemption as a defense in the arbitration proceeding. As required by ERISA, in November 2016, the subsidiary began making monthly payments of a withdrawal liability to the Plan in the amount of approximately $0.1 million. If we prevail in disputing the withdrawal liability all such payments will be refunded to us.. Failure to protect critical data and technology systems adequately could materially affect our operations. We use our own information technology systems as well as those of business partners to manage our operations and other business processes and to protect sensitive information maintained in the normal course of business. Third-party security breaches, employee error, malfeasance or other irregularities may compromise our measures to protect these systems and may result in persons obtaining unauthorized access to our or our customers' data or accounts. The occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business.. The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile. During fiscal 2017, our common stock fluctuated from a low of $71.34 per share to a high of $108.99 per share. We may continue to experience significant volatility in the market price of our common stock due to numerous factors, including, but not limited to:. •fluctuations in our operating results or the operating results of one or more of our competitors;. •announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions or capital commitments;. •announcements by our customers regarding their capital spending and start-up, deferral or cancellation of projects;. •changes in recommendations or earnings estimates by securities analysts; and. •the impact of economic conditions on the credit and stock markets and on our customers' demand for our services.. In addition, factors unrelated to our operating performance, such as market disruptions, industry outlook, general economic conditions, and political events, could decrease the market price of our common stock and, as a result, investors could lose some or all of their investments.. Anti-takeover provisions of Florida law and provisions in our articles of incorporation and by-laws could make it more difficult to effect an acquisition of our company or a change in our control. Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and by-laws could delay or prevent an acquisition or change in control and the replacement of our incumbent directors and management. For example, our board of directors is divided into three classes. At any annual meeting of our shareholders, our shareholders only have the right to appoint approximately one-third of the directors on our board of directors. In addition, our articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors, without further shareholder approval, to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock on such terms and with such rights as our board of directors may determine. The issuance of preferred stock could dilute the voting power of the holders of common stock, including by the grant of voting control to others. Our by-laws. 15. Table of Contents. also restrict the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders. Lastly, we are subject to certain anti-takeover provisions of the Florida Business Corporation Act. These anti-takeover provisions could discourage or prevent a change in control."
