[1] "Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. In your evaluation of our company and our businesses, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with the information included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). The following factors describe the risks and uncertainties that we consider significant to the operation of our business, but should not be considered a complete listing of all potential risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our operating results, financial position or liquidity. Additionally, our business is subject to the same general risks and uncertainties that affect many other companies, such as the overall United States (“U.S.”) and global economic conditions, international conflicts, geopolitical events, changes in laws or accounting rules, fluctuations in interest and exchange rates or other disruptions of expected economic and business conditions.. Risks Related To Our Business. The Company relies on its Contract Research segment for approximately half of its revenue. A decline in or temporary suspension of U.S. Government spending, changes in federal budgetary priorities, the timing of contract awards or a restructuring of the SBIR/STTR programs may adversely affect our future revenue and limit our growth prospects.. Our Contract Research business unit, RMD, is among the largest small business participants in U.S. government-funded research, performing research and development activities for government agencies including Department of Energy, Department of Defense, Department of Homeland Security, Domestic Nuclear Detection Office, National Institutes of Health, and National Aeronautics and Space Administration. Historically RMD has conducted its government research contracts through the SBIR (Small Business Innovation Research Program) and the STTR (Small Business Technology Transfer Program). Though RMD has augmented its SBIR contracts with larger competitively bid government contracts in recent years, a reduction in or elimination of the SBIR or the STTR programs could result in our inability to win contracts, as we may not have the resources to compete effectively against much larger, better-funded companies. Further, a significant decline in overall U.S. Government spending, including in the areas of national security, intelligence and homeland security, a significant shift in its spending priorities, the substantial reduction or elimination of particular defense-related programs or significant delays in contract or task order awards for large programs could adversely affect our future revenue and limit our growth prospects. While the October 2013 government shutdown did not have a significant impact on the Company, a future government shutdown could result in the suspension of work on contracts in progress or in payment delays which would adversely affect our future revenue and cash flow.. 7. The Company relies on a small number of key customers for a substantial portion of its revenue.. Ten customers accounted for approximately 50% of the Company’s revenue in 2017. Four of those ten customers were agencies of the U.S. Government and accounted for 31% of revenue. Although we have had business relationships with these customers for many years, there can be no guarantee that we will be able to win contracts with these agencies in the future. Accordingly our performance could be adversely affected by the loss of one or more of these key customers.. The U.S. Government may terminate, cancel, modify or curtail our contracts at any time prior to their completion and, if we do not replace them, we may be unable to achieve our expected future revenue and may suffer a decline in revenue.. As of September 30, 2017, our total backlog for Contract Research was approximately $33.2 million. Backlog consists of the portion of existing contracts yet to be performed and awards of projects by agencies in favor of RMD. Many of the U.S. Government programs in which we participate as a contractor or subcontractor may extend for several years and include one or more base years and one or more option years. These programs are normally funded on an annual basis. Under our contracts, the U.S. Government generally has the right not to exercise options to extend or expand our contracts and may otherwise terminate, cancel, modify or curtail our contracts at its convenience. Any decisions by the U.S. Government not to exercise contract options or to terminate, cancel, modify or curtail our major programs or contracts would adversely affect our revenue, revenue growth and profitability.. The U.S. Government also has the right to terminate a contract for default, in which case, we may be exposed to liability, including for excess costs incurred by the customer in procuring undelivered services and products from another source. Depending on the nature and value of the contract, a performance issue or termination for default could cause our actual results to differ from those anticipated and could harm our reputation.. Our earnings and profitability may be adversely affected by our failure to accurately estimate and manage costs, time and resources.. We generate revenue under various types of contracts, which include cost reimbursement, Time & Materials (T&M), Fixed Price-Level of Effort and Firm Fixed Price contracts (FFP). Our earnings and profitability may vary materially depending on changes in the proportionate amount of revenue derived from each type of contract, the nature of services or products provided, as well as the achievement of performance objectives and the stage of performance at which the right to receive fees, particularly under incentive and award fee contracts, is finally determined. Cost reimbursement and T&M contracts generally have lower profitability than FFP contracts. Our operating results in any period may also be affected, positively or negatively, by variable purchasing patterns by our customers of our more profitable proprietary products. Our failure to accurately estimate costs or the resources and technology needed to perform our contracts or to effectively manage and control our costs during the performance of our work could result, and in some instances has resulted, in reduced profits or in losses. More generally, any increased or unexpected costs or unanticipated delays in connection with the performance of our contracts, including costs and delays caused by contractual disputes or other factors outside of our control, such as performance failures of our subcontractors, natural disasters or other force majeure events, could make our contracts less profitable than expected or unprofitable.. Goodwill and other intangible assets represent approximately 24% of our total assets and any impairment of these assets could negatively impact our results of operations.. Non-amortizing intangible assets, including goodwill, are tested for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Examples of events or changes in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of such intangible assets may not be recoverable could include a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate, an adverse action or assessment by a regulator, unanticipated competition, loss of key personnel, or a more-likely-than-not expectation that a reporting unit or a significant portion of a reporting unit will be sold or otherwise disposed of.. Any future impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets would have a negative impact on our profitability and financial results.. Our Contract Research business faces aggressive competition that can impact our ability to obtain contracts and therefore affect our future revenue and growth prospects.. RMD’s competitors include other small high technology companies performing SBIR R&D, large firms such as Raytheon which performs related R&D, universities and national laboratories.. 8. The markets in which we operate are characterized by rapid technology development and the needs of our customers change and evolve regularly. Accordingly, our success depends on our ability to develop services and products that address these changing needs and to provide people and technology needed to deliver these services and products. To remain competitive, we must consistently provide superior service, technology and performance on a cost-effective basis to our customers. Our competitors may be able to provide our customers with different or greater capabilities or technologies or better contract terms than we can provide, including technical qualifications, past contract experience, geographic presence, price and the availability of qualified professional personnel. In addition, our competitors may consolidate or establish teaming or other relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase their ability to address customers’ needs. Accordingly, larger or new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge which may adversely affect our ability to compete.. Our business is subject to reviews, audits and cost adjustments by the U.S. Government, which, if resolved unfavorably to us, could adversely affect our profitability, cash position or growth prospects.. U.S. Government agencies, including the DCAA (Defense Contract Audit Agency), DCMA (Defense Contract Management Agency) and others, routinely audit and review a contractor’s performance on government contracts, indirect rates and pricing practices, and compliance with applicable contracting and procurement laws, regulations and standards. They also review the adequacy of the contractor’s compliance with government standards for its accounting and management internal control systems, including: control environment and overall accounting system, estimating system, purchasing system, property system and earned value management system. Both contractors and the U.S. Government agencies conducting these audits and reviews have come under increased scrutiny.. A finding of significant control deficiencies in our system audits or other reviews could result in decremented billing rates to our U.S. Government customers until the control deficiencies are corrected and our corrections are accepted by the auditing agency. Government audits and reviews may conclude that our practices are not consistent with applicable laws and regulations and result in adjustments to contract costs and mandatory customer refunds. Such adjustments can be applied retroactively, which could result in significant customer refunds. Our receipt of adverse audit findings or the failure to obtain an “approved” determination of our various accounting and management internal control systems, including our changes to indirect cost and direct labor estimating systems, from the responsible U.S. Government agency could significantly and adversely affect our business, including our ability to bid on new contracts and our competitive position in the bidding process. A determination of non-compliance with applicable contracting and procurement laws, regulations and standards could also result in the U.S. Government imposing penalties and sanctions against us, including withholding of payments, suspension of payments and increased government scrutiny that could delay or adversely affect our ability to invoice and receive timely payment on contracts, perform contracts or compete for contracts with the U.S. Government. We may suffer harm to our reputation if allegations of impropriety are made against us, which would impair our ability to win new contract awards or receive contract renewals.. Our indirect cost audits by the DCAA have been completed for fiscal 2013 while fiscal years 2014 through 2017 remain open pending DCAA audit. Although we have recorded contract revenue subsequent to fiscal 2013 based upon our estimate of costs that we believe will be approved upon final audit or review, we do not know the outcome of any ongoing or future audits or reviews and adjustments and, if future adjustments exceed our estimates, our profitability would be adversely affected.. Our failure to comply with a variety of complex procurement rules and regulations could result in our being liable for penalties, including termination of our U.S. Government contracts, disqualification from bidding on future U.S. Government contracts and suspension or debarment from U.S. Government contracting.. We must comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of U.S. Government contracts, which affect how we do business with our customers and may impose added costs on our business. Some significant statutes and regulations that affect us include:. ·the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) and supplements, which regulate the formation, administration and performance of U.S. Government contracts;. ·the Truth in Negotiations Act, which requires certification and disclosure of cost and pricing data in connection with certain contract negotiations;. ·the Procurement Integrity Act, which regulates access to competitor bid and proposal information and government source selection information, and our ability to provide compensation to certain former government officials;. 9. ·the Civil False Claims Act, which provides for substantial civil penalties for violations, including for submission of a false or fraudulent claim to the U.S. Government for payment or approval; and. ·the U.S. Government Cost Accounting Standards, which impose accounting requirements that govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based U.S. Government contracts.. Our failure to comply with any of these rules or regulations could result in loss of business or penalties that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. Our loan agreements impose restrictions on our ability to take certain corporate actions and raise additional capital, and include a material adverse change (“MAC”) clause.. Our loan agreements contain numerous customary restrictions that limit our ability to undertake certain activities without the express prior written approval of our lenders. These include, but are not limited to, restricting our ability to:. ·incur additional indebtedness;. ·pay or declare dividends;. ·enter into a business substantially different from existing operations;. ·issue or authorize any additional or new equity that will result in a change of control; and. ·take any corporate action outside the ordinary course of the business, including without limitation, the sale of material assets or other strategic divestitures, without the prior written approval of our lender.. These restrictions could significantly hamper our ability to raise additional capital. Our ability to receive the necessary approvals is largely dependent upon our relationship with our lenders and our financial performance, and no assurances can be given that we will be able to obtain the necessary approvals in the future. Our inability to raise additional capital could lead to working capital deficits that could have a material adverse effect on our operations in future periods.. One of our loan agreements also includes a MAC clause which permits the bank to call the loan if any event, fact, circumstance, change in, or effect on the Company could reasonably be expected to be materially adverse to the business.. We may not be able to generate sufficient positive cash flow in the future to fund our operations.. In addition to our bank financing, we are dependent upon cash flow from our businesses to fund our operations. It is our expectation that we can continue to increase our cash flows; however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to do so. If we are unable to fund our operations from future cash flows together with our available bank financing, we will need to seek additional debt and/or equity financing, which may not be available on attractive terms, if at all, in which case there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Our Xcede joint venture requires further funding to support the development of its technology.. Xcede’s initiated financing efforts raised approximately $2.9 million of funding through convertible notes from external investors (including officers and directors of the Company) through November, 2016. In November 2016, Xcede announced Cook Biotech Inc. committed to fund the pre-clinical testing of, and subject to the receipt of applicable regulatory approvals initiate clinical trials for, Xcede’s hemostatic patch designed to be fully biocompatible that is currently under development. In addition, in November 2016, the Company committed to invest an additional $1.2 million of cash into Xcede over the following 18 months, and all $5.5 million in existing notes and accrued interest from both external investors and the Company were converted into preferred stock. As of September 30, 2017, Dynasil owned approximately 61% of the outstanding equity in Xcede. We expect Xcede to continue to require periodic investor funding in amounts larger than what has been raised to date in order to fund additional pre-clinical development activities and any human clinical trials we may initiate. To the extent Xcede is successful in raising additional equity financing from outside sources, our equity interest in Xcede will decrease. There can be no assurance, however, that Xcede will be able to obtain future financing as needed or on terms which are attractive, in which case it might be required to close its operations and liquidate its assets in which case our investment would likely not be recovered.. 10. Our failure to attract, train and retain skilled employees, including our management team, would adversely affect our ability to execute our strategy.. Portions of our business involve the development of tailored solutions for our customers, a process that relies heavily upon the expertise and services of our employees. Our continued success depends on our ability to recruit and retain highly trained and skilled engineering, technical and professional personnel. Competition for skilled personnel is intense and competitors aggressively recruit key employees. Particularly in highly specialized areas, it may become more difficult to retain employees and meet all of our needs for employees in a timely manner, which may affect our growth in the current fiscal year and in future years. Although we intend to continue to devote significant resources to recruit, train and retain qualified employees, we may not be able to attract and retain these employees. Any failure to do so could impair our ability to perform our contractual obligations efficiently and timely meet our customers’ needs and win new business, which could adversely affect our future results.. In addition to attracting and retaining qualified engineering, technical and professional personnel, we believe that our success will also depend on the continued employment of a highly qualified and experienced senior management team and its ability to retain existing business and generate new business. Our senior management team is important to our business because personal reputations and individual business relationships are a critical element of retaining and obtaining customer contracts in our industry, particularly with agencies performing classified operations. Our inability to hire and retain appropriately qualified and experienced senior executives could cause us to lose customers or new business opportunities.. Misconduct of employees, subcontractors, agents and business partners could cause us to lose existing contracts or customers and adversely affect our ability to obtain new contracts and customers and could have a significant adverse impact on our business and reputation.. Misconduct, should it occur, could include fraud or other improper activities such as falsifying time or other records and violations of laws, including the Anti-Kickback Act. Other examples could include the failure to comply with our policies and procedures or with federal, state or local government procurement regulations, regulations regarding the use and safeguarding of classified or other protected information, legislation regarding the pricing of labor and other costs in government contracts, laws and regulations relating to environmental, health or safety matters, bribery of foreign government officials, import-export control, lobbying or similar activities, and any other applicable laws or regulations. Intentional or unintentional violation of the Export Control Act or International Traffic in Arms Regulations could result in severe fines which could adversely affect our profitability. Any data loss or information security lapses resulting in the compromise of personal information or the improper use or disclosure of sensitive or classified information could result in claims, remediation costs, regulatory sanctions against us, loss of current and future contracts and serious harm to our reputation. Although we have implemented policies, procedures and controls to prevent and detect these activities, these precautions may not prevent all misconduct, and as a result, we could face unknown risks or losses. Our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations or misconduct by any of our employees, subcontractors, agents or business partners could damage our reputation and subject us to fines and penalties, restitution or other damages, loss of security clearance, loss of current and future customer contracts and suspension or debarment from contracting with federal, state or local government agencies, any of which would adversely affect our business and our future results.. Quality problems with our processes, goods, and services could harm our reputation for producing high-quality products and erode our competitive advantage, sales and market share.. Quality is extremely important to us and our customers due to the serious and costly consequences of product failure. Our quality certifications are critical to the marketing success of our goods and services. If we fail to meet these standards, our reputation could be damaged, we could lose customers, and our revenue and results of operations could decline. Aside from specific customer standards, our success depends generally on our ability to manufacture to exact tolerances precision-engineered components, subassemblies, and finished devices from multiple materials. If our components fail to meet these standards or fail to adapt to evolving standards, our reputation as a manufacturer of high-quality components will be harmed, our competitive advantage could be damaged, and we could lose customers and market share.. 11. From time to time we may make acquisitions. The failure to successfully integrate future acquisitions could harm our business, financial condition and operating results.. One component of our growth strategy is to selectively pursue strategic acquisitions. These transactions require significant investment of time and resources and may disrupt our business and distract our management from other responsibilities. Even if successful, these transactions could reduce earnings for a number of reasons, including the amortization of intangible assets, impairment charges, acquired operations that are not yet profitable or the payment of additional consideration under earn-out arrangements if an acquisition performs better than expected. Acquisitions, investments and joint ventures pose many other risks that could adversely affect our reputation, operations or financial results, including:. ·we may not be able to identify, compete effectively for or complete suitable acquisitions and investments at prices we consider attractive;. ·we may not be able to accurately estimate the financial effect of acquisitions and investments on our business and we may not realize anticipated synergies or acquisitions may not result in improved operating performance;. ·we may encounter performance problems with acquired technologies, capabilities and products, particularly with respect to those that are still in development when acquired;. ·we may have trouble retaining key employees and customers of an acquired business or otherwise integrating such businesses, such as incompatible accounting, information management, or other control systems, which could result in unforeseen difficulties;. ·we may assume material liabilities that were not identified as part of our due diligence or for which we are unable to receive a purchase price adjustment or reimbursement through indemnification;. ·we may assume legal or regulatory risks, particularly with respect to smaller businesses that have immature business processes and compliance programs;. ·acquired entities or joint ventures may not operate profitably, which could adversely affect our operating income or operating margins and we may be unable to recover investments in any such acquisitions;. ·acquisitions, investments and joint ventures may require us to spend a significant amount of cash or to issue capital stock, resulting in dilution of ownership; and. ·we may not be able to effectively influence the operations of our joint ventures or we may be exposed to certain liabilities if our joint venture partners do not fulfill their obligations.. If our acquisitions fail, perform poorly or their value is otherwise impaired for any reason, including contractions in credit markets and global economic conditions, our business and financial results could be adversely affected.. In addition, we periodically divest businesses, including businesses that are no longer a part of our ongoing strategic plan. These divestitures similarly require significant investment of time and resources, may disrupt our business, distract management from other responsibilities and may result in losses on disposal or continued financial involvement in the divested business, including through indemnification, guarantee or other financial arrangements, for a period of time following the transaction, which would adversely affect our financial results.. Our financial results may vary significantly from period-to-period.. Our financial results may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. For these reasons, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. Our financial results may be negatively affected by any of the risk factors listed in this “Risk Factors” section and other matters described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the other documents we file with the SEC.. Changes in tax laws or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the U.S. and United Kingdom (U.K.) We are subject to tax audits in various jurisdictions. Tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. However, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the actual outcomes of these audits could have a material impact on our consolidated earnings and financial condition. Additionally, changes in tax laws or tax rulings could materially impact our effective tax rate.. 12. We face risks associated with our international business.. In 2017 and 2016, we generated approximately 22% and 25% of our sales outside the U.S., respectively. Our international business operations may be subject to additional and different risks than our U.S. business. Our ability to achieve and maintain profitable growth in international markets is subject to risks related to the differing legal, political, social and regulatory requirements and economic conditions of many countries. As a result of our expansion outside the U.S., we are subject to certain inherent risks, including political and economic uncertainty, inflation rates, exchange rates, trade protection measures, local labor conditions and laws, restrictions on foreign investments and repatriation of earnings, and weak intellectual property protection. If we are unable to manage these risks it would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. 13. Political and economic uncertainty arising from the outcome of the referendum on the membership of the United Kingdom in the European Union could adversely impact our financial results.. In June 2016, a majority of voters in the U.K. elected to withdraw from the European Union (E.U.) in a national referendum (also referred to as \"Brexit\"). Our Hilger Crystals Ltd. business unit is located in the U.K. The announcement of Brexit caused significant volatility in global stock markets and currency exchange rate fluctuations that resulted in the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies in which we conduct business, including the British pound. We translate revenue denominated in foreign currency (including the British pound) into U.S. dollars for our financial statements. During periods of a strengthening dollar, our reported international revenue is reduced because foreign currencies translate into fewer U.S. dollars.. As a result of the referendum being passed into law, a negotiation process to determine the future terms of the U.K.’s relationship with the E.U. is ongoing, including the terms of trade between the U.K. and the E.U. The effects of Brexit will depend on any agreements the U.K. makes to retain access to E.U. markets either during a transitional period or more permanently. The measures could potentially disrupt the markets we serve and may cause us to lose customers, suppliers and employees. Additionally, disruptions and uncertainty caused by Brexit may cause our customers to closely monitor their costs and reduce their spending budget on our products and services. Brexit may also lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the U.K. determines which E.U. laws to replace or replicate. Any of these effects of Brexit, among others, could adversely affect our business, financial condition or future results.. Increases in prices and declines in the availability of raw materials could negatively impact our financial results.. Our financial results are significantly affected by the cost of raw materials and energy. Most of the raw materials and energy used in production are purchased from outside sources, and the Company has made, and plans to continue to make, supply arrangements to meet the planned operating requirements for the future. Supply of critical raw materials and energy is managed by establishing contracts, multiple sources, and identifying alternative materials or technology whenever possible. An inability to obtain critical raw materials would adversely impact our ability to produce products. Increases in the cost of raw materials and energy may have an adverse effect on our earnings or cash flow in the event we are unable to mitigate these higher costs in a timely manner.. Our business and operations expose us to numerous legal and regulatory requirements and any violation of these requirements could harm our business.. We are subject to numerous federal, state and foreign legal requirements on matters as diverse as data privacy and protection, employment and labor relations, immigration, taxation, anticorruption, import/export controls, trade restrictions, internal and disclosure control obligations, securities regulation, environmental and anti-competition. We are also focused on expanding our business in certain identified growth areas, such as homeland security and biomedical technologies, which are highly regulated and may expose us to increased compliance risk. Compliance with diverse and changing legal requirements is costly, time-consuming and requires significant resources. Violations of one or more of these requirements in the conduct of our business could result in significant fines and other damages, criminal sanctions against us or our officers, prohibitions on doing business and damage to our reputation. Violations of these regulations or contractual obligations related to regulatory compliance in connection with the performance of customer contracts could also result in liability for significant monetary damages, fines and/or criminal prosecution, unfavorable publicity and other reputational damage, restrictions on our ability to compete for certain work and allegations by our customers that we have not performed our contractual obligations.. Moreover, we use controlled hazardous and radioactive materials in our business and generate wastes that are regulated as hazardous wastes under United States federal and certain state, environmental and atomic energy regulatory laws and similar laws in each jurisdiction in which our facilities are located. Our use of these substances and materials is subject to stringent, and periodically changing, regulation that can impose costly compliance obligations on us and have the potential to adversely affect our manufacturing activities. The risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. If an accident with these substances occurs, we could be held liable for any damages that result, in addition to incurring clean-up costs and liabilities, which can be substantial. Additionally, an accident could damage our research and manufacturing facilities resulting in delays and increased costs.. 14. Our insurance may be insufficient to protect us from product and other liability claims or losses.. We maintain insurance coverage with third-party insurers as part of our overall risk management strategy and because some of our contracts require us to maintain specific insurance coverage limits. However, not every risk or liability is or can be protected by insurance, and, for those risks we insure, the limits of coverage we purchase or that are reasonably obtainable in the market may not be sufficient to cover all actual losses or liabilities incurred. If any of our third-party insurers fail, cancel our coverage or otherwise are unable to provide us with adequate insurance coverage, then our overall risk exposure and our operational expenses would increase and the management of our business operations would be disrupted. Our insurance may be insufficient to protect us from significant product and other liability claims or losses. Moreover, there is a risk that commercially available liability insurance will not continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost, if at all. If liability claims or losses exceed our current or available insurance coverage, our business and prospects may be harmed. Regardless of the adequacy of our liability insurance coverage, any significant claim may have an adverse effect on our industry and market reputation, leading to a substantial decrease in demand for our products and services and reduced revenue.. Our business and financial results could be negatively affected by cyber or other security threats.. As a U.S. Government contractor operating in multiple regulated industries and geographies, we handle sensitive information. Therefore, we are continuously exposed to cyber and other security threats, including computer viruses, attacks by hackers or physical break-ins. Any electronic or physical break-in or other security breach or compromise may jeopardize security of information stored or transmitted through our information technology systems and networks. This could lead to disruptions in mission critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data. Although we have implemented policies, procedures and controls to protect against, detect and mitigate these threats, attempts by others to gain unauthorized access to our information technology systems are becoming more sophisticated. These attempts include covertly introducing malware to our computers and networks and impersonating authorized users, among others, and may be perpetrated by well-funded organized crime or state sponsored efforts. We seek to detect and investigate all security incidents and to prevent their occurrence or recurrence. We continue to improve our threat protection, detection and mitigation policies, procedures and controls. In addition, we work with other companies in the industry and government participants on increased awareness and enhanced protections against cyber security threats. However, because of the evolving nature of these security threats, there can be no assurance that our policies, procedures and controls have or will detect or prevent any of these threats and we cannot predict the full impact of any such incident. We may experience similar security threats to the information technology systems that we develop, install or maintain under customer contracts. Although we work cooperatively with our customers and other business partners to seek to minimize the impacts of cyber and other security threats, we must rely on the safeguards put in place by those entities. Any remedial costs or other liabilities related to cyber or other security threats may not be fully insured or indemnified by other means. Occurrence of any of these security threats could adversely affect our reputation, ability to work on sensitive U.S. Government contracts, business operations and financial results.. Risks Relating To Dynasil’s Stock. Xcede, our joint venture, is a pre-clinical stage business with no approved products, which makes it difficult to assess the business’s future viability.. In October 2013, Dynasil Biomedical formed Xcede, a joint venture with Mayo Clinic, to focus on and separately fund the development of its tissue sealant technology. Xcede has not yet demonstrated an ability to successfully overcome many of the risks and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies in new and rapidly evolving fields, particularly in the biomedical area. For example, to execute its business plan, Xcede will need to successfully:. ·raise the funds necessary to execute its product development plan;. ·manage its spending as costs and expenses increase during the clinical trial and regulatory approval processes;. ·obtain required regulatory approvals for the development and commercialization of the tissue sealant product applications;. ·maintain and expand the tissue sealant intellectual property portfolio;. ·build and maintain robust sales, distribution and marketing capabilities, either on its own or in collaboration with strategic partners; and. ·gain market acceptance for its products.. 15. If Xcede is unsuccessful in accomplishing these objectives, it may not be able to develop its tissue sealant product, raise capital, expand its business or continue its operations, which may have a material adverse effect on our stock price.. The market price for our common stock is particularly volatile given our status as a relatively unknown company with a small and thinly traded public float, which could lead to wide fluctuations in our share price.. The market for our common stock is characterized by significant price volatility when compared to the shares of larger, more established companies that have large public floats, and we expect that our share price will continue to be more volatile than the shares of such larger, more established companies for the indefinite future. The volatility in our share price is attributable to a number of factors. First, as noted above, our common stock is, compared to the shares of such larger, more established companies, sporadically and thinly traded. As a consequence of this limited liquidity, the trading of relatively small quantities of shares by our stockholders may disproportionately influence the price of those shares in either direction. The price for our shares could, for example, decline precipitously in the event that a large number of our common stock is sold on the market without commensurate demand. As a consequence of this enhanced risk, more risk-adverse investors may, under the fear of losing all or most of their investment in the event of negative news or lack of progress, be more inclined to sell their shares on the market more quickly and at greater discounts than would be the case with the stock of a larger, more established company that has a large public float. Many of these factors are beyond our control and may decrease the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. We cannot make any predictions or projections as to what the prevailing market price for our common stock will be at any time, including as to whether our common stock will sustain its current market price, or as to what effect that the sale of shares or the availability of common stock for sale at any time will have on the prevailing market price.. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock.. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not currently intend to do so for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth. Therefore, you are not likely to receive any dividends on your common stock for the foreseeable future and the success of an investment in shares of our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in its value. There is no guarantee that shares of our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which our stockholders have purchased their shares.. If our internal control over financial reporting is found not to be effective or if we make disclosure of existing or potential significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in those controls, investors could lose confidence in our financial reports, and our stock price may be adversely affected.. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to include an internal control report with our Annual Report on Form 10-K. That report must include management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of the fiscal year. We evaluate our existing internal control over financial reporting based on the integrated framework issued in 2013 by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations (COSO) of the Treadway Commission. During the course of our ongoing evaluation of the internal controls, we may identify areas requiring improvement, and may have to design enhanced processes and controls to address issues identified through this review. Additionally, due to the implementation of new accounting standards, our existing controls will have to be adapted and we cannot be certain that new deficiencies will not arise. Remedying any deficiencies, significant deficiencies or material weaknesses that we identify may require us to incur significant costs and expend significant time and management resources. We cannot assure you that any of the measures we implement to remedy any such deficiencies will effectively mitigate or remedy such deficiencies. Investors could lose confidence in our financial reports, and our stock price may be adversely affected, if our internal controls over financial reporting are found not to be effective by management or if we make disclosure of existing or potential significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in those controls."
