[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. The following is a summary of the risk factors that we believe are most relevant to our business. These are factors which, individually or in the aggregate, we think could cause our actual results to differ significantly from anticipated or historical results. In addition to understanding the key risks described below, investors should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all risk factors, and consequently, the following is not a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties.. 8. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS. We use leverage in order to enhance returns to our shareholders which increases the risk of volatility in our results and could lead to material decreases in net interest income, net income, dividends, book value per common share, and liquidity.. The use of leverage in our business increases the risk of volatility in returns to our shareholders and increases the risk of a material decline in our shareholders' equity, book value per common share and liquidity. Leverage increases returns on our invested capital if we can earn a greater return on investments than our cost of borrowing, but can decrease returns if borrowing costs increase and we have not adequately hedged against such an increase. In addition, using leverage magnifies the potential losses to shareholders' equity and book value per common share if the market value of our investments declines and if we have not adequately hedged against this risk. We also have increased liquidity risk stemming from the potential for margin calls by our lenders for fluctuations in investment collateral values, or if the lender fails to renew or roll over the financing.. Our ability to access leverage in the conduct of our operations is impacted by the following:. • market conditions and overall market volatility and liquidity;. • regulation of our lenders;. • the liquidity of our investments;. • the market value of our investments;. • the advance rates by our lenders on investment collateral pledged, and;. • the willingness of our lenders to finance the types of investments we choose.. Many of these factors are beyond our control and are difficult to predict, which could lead to sudden and material adverse effects on our results of operations, financial condition, business, liquidity, and ability to make distributions to shareholders, and could force us to sell assets at significantly depressed prices to maintain adequate liquidity.. For more information about our operating policies regarding leverage and historic leverage levels, please see \"Liquidity and Capital Resources\" within Part II, Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation.\". Risks related to the market value of our investments could negatively impact our net income, comprehensive income, shareholders' equity, book value per common share, and liquidity.. Our investments fluctuate in value due to changes in credit spreads, spot and forward interest rates, actual and anticipated prepayments, and other factors. Our investments may also fluctuate in value due to increased or reduced demand for the types of investments we own which could be impacted by, among other things, interest rates, capital flows, and government and regulatory policies. Changes in the market values of our investments are reflected in our consolidated financial statements in other comprehensive income, shareholders' equity and book value per common share. Changes in credit spreads represent the market's valuation of the perceived riskiness of assets relative to risk-free rates, and widening credit spreads reduce the market value of our investments as market participants require additional yield to hold riskier assets. Credit spreads could change based on macro-economic or systemic factors specific to a particular security such as prepayment performance or credit performance. Other factors that could impact credit spreads include technical issues such as supply and demand for a particular type of security, market psychology, and FOMC monetary policy. In addition, most of our investments are fixed rate or reset in rate over a period of time, and as interest rates rise, the market value of these investments will decrease. If market values decrease significantly, we may be forced to sell assets at losses in order to maintain liquidity and repay or renew repurchase agreements at maturity.. Fluctuations in interest rates may have various negative effects on us and could lead to reduced net interest income, comprehensive income, and a lower book value per common share.. Fluctuations in interest rates impact us in a number of ways. For example, in a period of rising rates, particularly increases in the targeted Federal Funds Rate, we may experience a decline in our profitability from borrowing rates increasing faster than interest coupons on our investments reset or our investments mature. We may also experience a decline in profitability from our investments adjusting less frequently or relative to a different index (e.g., six month or one-year LIBOR) from our borrowings (repurchase agreements are typically based on short-term rates like one-month or three-month LIBOR). Once the. 9. Federal Reserve announces a higher targeted range or if markets determine that the Federal Reserve is likely to announce a higher targeted range for the Federal Funds Rate, our borrowing costs are likely to immediately increase, thereby negatively impacting our results of operations, financial condition, and book value per common share.. The mortgage loans collateralizing ARMs typically have periodic (or interim) and lifetime interest rate caps. Periodic interest rate caps limit the amount interest rates can adjust on a loan during any given period. Lifetime interest rate caps limit the amount interest rates can adjust from inception through maturity of a loan. Because of these caps, the amount of gross interest income earned by ARMs may become limited in a sustained period of rising interest rates or in any period in which interest rates rise rapidly. We may also experience price volatility as ARMs approach their interest rate caps. In addition, we could experience additional declines in net interest income as the repurchase agreements financing ARMs do not have periodic or lifetime interest rate caps.. Fluctuations in interest rates may also negatively affect the market value of our securities. Since our MBS are fixed rate or adjust generally over longer-term periods, rising interest rates will reduce the market value of our MBS as a result of higher yield requirements by the market for these types of securities. In some instances, increases in short-term interest rates are rapid enough that short-term interest rates equal or exceed medium/long-term interest rates, resulting in a flat or inverted yield curve. Any fixed-rate or hybrid ARM investment will generally be more negatively affected by these increases than ARMs (which have interest-rates that adjust more frequently). Reductions in the market value of our MBS could result in margin calls from our lenders, potentially forcing us to sell securities at a loss. Conversely, while declining interest rates are more favorable for us, we may experience increasing prepayments, resulting in reduced profitability due to reinvestment of our capital in lower yielding investments.. Our use of hedging strategies to mitigate our interest rate exposure may not be effective and may adversely affect our income, liquidity and book value.. We use or may use interest rate swap agreements, Eurodollar futures, interest rate caps, options, forward contracts and other derivative transactions (collectively, \"hedging instruments\") to help mitigate increased financing costs and volatility in book value from adverse changes in interest rates. Our hedging activity will vary in scope based on our portfolio construction and objectives, the actual and implied level and volatility of interest rates, our forecast of future interest rates, and financing sources used. No hedging strategy can completely insulate us from the interest rate risks to which we are exposed, and there can be no assurance that the implementation of any hedging strategy will have the desired impact on our results of operations or financial condition. Hedging instruments we use may adversely affect our results of operations and book value (particularly if interest rates decline) as the fair value of hedging instruments fluctuates with changes in rates (and require us to post margin to counterparties) and also involve an expense that we will incur regardless of the effectiveness of the hedging activity. In periods of rapidly changing interest rates, particularly declining interest rates, our liquidity could be negatively impacted if declines in the value of the hedges is greater than the increase in fair value of the hedged investments.. Our hedging instruments can be traded on an exchange or administered through a clearing house, or are administered under bilateral agreements between us and a counterparty. Bilateral agreements expose us to increased counterparty risk, and we may be at risk of loss of any collateral held by a hedging counterparty if the counterparty becomes insolvent or files for bankruptcy.. Interest rate hedging may fail to protect or could adversely affect us because, among other things:. • The performance of instruments used to hedge may not completely correlate with the performance of the assets or liabilities being hedged;. • Interest rate hedging can be expensive, particularly during periods of volatile interest rates;. • Available hedging instruments may not correspond directly with the interest rate risk from which we seek protection;. • The duration of the hedge may not match the duration of the related asset or liability given management's expectation of future changes in interest rates or a result of the inaccuracies of models in forecasting cash flows on the asset being hedged;. 10. • The value of derivatives used for hedging will be adjusted from time to time in accordance with GAAP to reflect changes in fair value, and downward adjustments, or \"mark-to-market losses,\" would reduce our earnings, shareholders' equity, and book value;. • The amount of income that a REIT may earn from hedging transactions (other than through taxable REIT subsidiaries) to offset interest rate losses may be limited by U.S. federal income tax provisions governing REITs;. • The credit quality of the party owing money on the hedge may be downgraded to such an extent that it impairs our ability to sell or assign our side of the hedging transaction; and. • The party owing money in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay.. Our hedging transactions, which are intended to limit losses, may actually adversely affect our earnings, which could reduce our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders.. Repurchase agreements are generally uncommitted short-term financings and changes to terms of such financing may adversely affect our profitability and our liquidity.. The majority of our repurchase agreements are uncommitted financings from lenders with an average term of ninety days or less. Because repurchase agreements are short-term financing commitments, changes in conditions in the repurchase markets may make it more difficult for us to secure continued financing particularly in periods of high volatility. Additionally, regulatory capital requirements imposed on our lenders by financial and banking regulators have changed significantly in recent years, and as a result, the cost of financing has increased and may continue to increase. In addition, many lenders may find it unprofitable to lend against certain collateral types due to higher regulatory costs and regulatory capital requirements, and thus restrict their lending against such collateral. Because we rely heavily on borrowings under repurchase agreements to finance our investments, our ability to achieve our investment and profitability objectives can depend on our ability to access repurchase agreement financing in sufficient amounts and on favorable terms, and to renew or replace maturing financings on a continuing basis. If the terms on which we borrow change in a meaningful way, or if borrowings are not available, we may be forced to sell assets or our borrowing costs could increase, potentially reducing our profitability and dividends to our shareholders.. We invest in to-be-announced, or TBA, securities which are forward contracts for the purchase of non-specified Agency RMBS and execute TBA dollar roll transactions. It could be uneconomical to roll our TBA contracts or we may be unable to meet margin calls on our TBA contracts, which could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations.. The Company executes TBA dollar roll transactions which effectively delay the settlement of a forward purchase of a TBA by entering into an offsetting TBA short position, net settling the paired-off positions in cash, and simultaneously entering an identical TBA long position with a later settlement date. Under certain market conditions, TBA dollar roll transactions may result in negative net interest income whereby the Agency RMBS purchased for forward settlement under a TBA contract are priced at a premium to Agency RMBS for settlement in the current month. Market conditions could also adversely impact the TBA dollar roll market. In particular, the announced reduction in the Federal Reserve's reinvestment of principal payments on Agency RMBS could adversely impact the TBA dollar roll market as this reduction is implemented. Under such conditions, it may be uneconomical to roll our TBA positions prior to the settlement date, and we could have to take physical delivery of the underlying securities and settle our obligations for cash. We may not have sufficient funds or alternative financing sources available to settle such obligations. In addition, pursuant to the margin provisions established by the Mortgage-Backed Securities Division (\"MBSD\") of the Fixed Income Clearing Corporation we are subject to margin calls on our TBA contracts and our trading counterparties may require us to post additional margin above the levels established by the MBSD. Negative income on TBA dollar roll transactions or failure to procure adequate financing to settle our obligations or meet margin calls under our TBA contracts could result in defaults or force us to sell assets under adverse market conditions or through foreclosure and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We invest in assets that are traded in over-the-counter (\"OTC\") markets which are less liquid and have less price transparency than securities exchanges. Owning securities that are traded in OTC markets may increase our liquidity risk, particularly in a volatile market environment, because our assets may be more difficult to borrow against or sell in a prompt manner and on terms acceptable to us, and we may not realize the full value at which we previously recorded the investments and/or may incur additional losses upon sale.. 11. Though Agency MBS are generally deemed to be very liquid securities, turbulent market conditions in the past have at times significantly and negatively impacted the liquidity of these assets, resulting in reductions in their market value. Non-Agency MBS are typically more difficult to value, less liquid, and experience greater price volatility than Agency MBS. In addition, market values for non-Agency MBS are typically more subjective than Agency MBS. Because of these factors, the number of lenders willing to provide financing for non-Agency MBS or accept them as collateral has generally been limited compared to Agency MBS. Given the trading of our investments in OTC markets, in an extreme case of market stress, a market may not exist for certain of our assets at any price. If the MBS market were to experience a severe or extended period of illiquidity, lenders may refuse to accept our assets as collateral for repurchase agreement financing, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and business. A sudden reduction in the liquidity of our investments could limit our ability to finance or could make it difficult to sell investments if the need arises. If we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the fair value at which we have previously recorded our investments which would result in lower than anticipated gains or higher losses.. Purchases and sales of Agency RMBS by the Federal Reserve may adversely affect the price and return associated with Agency RMBS, which could negatively impact the value of our investments, comprehensive income, book value per common share, and liquidity.. The Federal Reserve owns approximately $1.8 trillion of Agency RMBS as of December 31, 2017. In October 2017, the Federal Reserve began reducing reinvestment of principal payments from its holdings of Agency RMBS into new Agency RMBS purchases, thereby causing a decline in Federal Reserve security holdings over time. While it is very difficult to predict the impact of the Federal Reserve portfolio runoff on the prices and liquidity of Agency RMBS, returns on Agency RMBS may be adversely affected as private investors seek higher yields. This in turn could reduce our comprehensive income, book value per common share, and our liquidity.. Our repurchase agreements and agreements governing certain interest rate swaps may contain financial and non-financial covenants. Our inability to meet these covenants could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. In connection with certain of our repurchase agreements and interest rate swap agreements, we are required to maintain certain financial and non-financial covenants. As of January 31, 2018, the most restrictive financial covenants require that we have a minimum of $30 million of liquidity and declines in shareholders' equity no greater than 25% in any quarter and 35% in any year. In addition, virtually all of our repurchase agreements and interest rate swap agreements require us to maintain our status as a REIT and to be exempted from the provisions of the 1940 Act. Compliance with these covenants depends on market factors and the strength of our business and operating results. Various risks, uncertainties and events beyond our control, including significant fluctuations in interest rates and changes in market conditions, could affect our ability to comply with these covenants. Failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default, termination of an agreement, acceleration of all amounts owed under an agreement, and generally would give the counterparty the right to exercise certain other remedies under the repurchase agreement, including the sale of the asset subject to repurchase at the time of default, unless we were able to negotiate a waiver in connection with any such default related to failure to comply with a covenant. Any such waiver could be conditioned on an amendment to the underlying agreement and any related guaranty agreement on terms that may be unfavorable to us. If we are unable to negotiate a covenant waiver or replace or refinance our assets under a new repurchase facility on favorable terms or at all, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. Further, certain of our repurchase agreements and interest rate swap agreements have cross-default, cross-acceleration or similar provisions, such that if we were to violate a covenant under one agreement, that violation could lead to defaults, accelerations, or other adverse events under other agreements, as well.. Prepayment rates on the mortgage loans underlying our investments may adversely affect our profitability and the market value of our investments. Changes in prepayment rates may also subject us to reinvestment risk.. We are subject to prepayment risk to the extent that we own investments at premiums to their par value or at yields at a premium to current market yields. Our investment portfolio consists substantially of RMBS and CMBS owned at premiums, and CMBS IO securities which have no principal amounts outstanding and consist only of the right to receive interest payments on the underlying pools of CMBS loans included in the securitization trust. We amortize the premiums we pay on a security using the effective yield method, which is impacted by actual and projected borrower prepayments of principal on the loans.. 12. Prepayments on our investments can occur both on a voluntary and involuntary (i.e., a loan default and subsequent foreclosure and liquidation) basis. Voluntary prepayments tend to increase when interest rates are declining or, in the case of ARMs or hybrid ARMs, based on the shape of the yield curve. CMBS and CMBS IO are generally protected from voluntary prepayment for a portion of their expected lives either by an absolute prepayment lock-out on the loan or by yield maintenance or prepayment penalty provisions which serve as full or partial compensation for future lost interest income on the loan. RMBS provide no specific protection from voluntary prepayment. The actual level of prepayments on our investments will be impacted by economic and market conditions, the absolute levels of interest rates and relative levels of interest rates versus our investments, the general availability of mortgage credit, and other factors. We have no protection from involuntary prepayments which tend to increase in periods of economic stress and may occur for any of our investment types. If we experience actual prepayments in excess of our projections or increase our expectations of future prepayment activity, we will amortize investment premiums at an accelerated rate which will reduce our interest income. In addition, we may reinvest prepayments in lower yielding investments which could lead to lower net interest income and reduced profitability.. Increases in actual prepayment rates or market expectations of prepayment rates could also negatively impact the market value of our investments. Faster prepayments generally negatively impact the market value of RMBS due to less predictability of payments on the underlying mortgage loans and will increase the required market yield on such security. Faster prepayments will also negatively impact the market value of CMBS IO, depending on the amount of prepayment protection for a given security. Increasing prepayments will typically reduce the value of our securities owned at premiums which will negatively impact our book value. We are also more likely to experience margin calls from our lenders as a result of the decline in value of our securities.. In certain circumstances, compensation for voluntary prepayment on CMBS IO securities may not be sufficient to compensate us for the loss of future excess interest as a result of the prepayment, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations.  Also, the amount of prepayment penalties on loans underlying CMBS and CMBS IO decline over time, and as loans age, interest rates decline, or market values of the collateral supporting the loan increase, prepayment penalties may not serve as a sufficient economic disincentive to prevent the borrower from prepaying.. Prepayments on large balance, single loan Agency CMBS could result in margin calls by lenders in excess of our available liquidity. As such, we may be at risk of defaulting on a repurchase agreement which could force us to sell assets at a loss.. We may own large balance Agency CMBS which are collateralized by a single-loan. While these Agency CMBS have some form of prepayment protection such as yield maintenance which would compensate us for the prepayment, these securities are collateralizing repurchase agreements. If the single loan CMBS prepays, typically there is a 20-day delay between the announcement of such prepayment and the receipt of cash from the prepayment; however, the repurchase agreement lender may initiate a margin call when the prepayment is announced. If the margin call were large enough, we might not be able to meet such margin call from available liquidity, and we could be forced to sell assets quickly and on terms unfavorable to us to meet the margin call. If we cannot meet the margin call, we may be in default under the repurchase agreement until we receive the cash from the prepayment. Because some of our repurchase agreement borrowings contain cross-default provisions, such default could trigger defaults on and margin calls with respect to other of our repurchase agreement borrowings.. Provisions requiring yield maintenance charges, prepayment penalties, defeasance, or lock-outs in CMBS IO securities may not be enforceable.. Provisions in loan documents for mortgages in CMBS IO securities in which we invest requiring yield maintenance charges, prepayment penalties, defeasance, or lock-out periods may not be enforceable in some states and under federal bankruptcy law. Provisions in the loan documents requiring yield maintenance charges and prepayment penalties may also be interpreted as constituting the collection of interest for usury purposes. Accordingly, we cannot be assured that the obligation of a borrower to pay any yield maintenance charge or prepayment penalty under a loan document in a CMBS IO security will be enforceable. Also, we cannot be assured that foreclosure proceeds under a loan document in a CMBS IO security will be sufficient to pay an enforceable yield maintenance charge. If yield maintenance charges and prepayment penalties are not collected, or if a lock-out period is not enforced, we may incur losses to write-down the value of the CMBS IO security for the present value of the amounts not collected, and we will experience lower yields and lower interest income. This would also likely cause margin calls from any lender on the CMBS IO impacted which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity.. 13. We invest in securities guaranteed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac which are currently under conservatorship by the Federal Housing Finance Administration (the \"FHFA\"). As conservator, the FHFA has assumed all the powers of the shareholders, directors and officers of the GSEs with the goal of preserving and conserving their assets.  Both Fannie Mae's and Freddie Mac's solvency is being supported by the Treasury through their committed purchases of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac preferred stock. The ultimate impact on the operations of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac from the conservatorships and the support they receive from the U.S. government is not determinable and could affect Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in such a way that our business, operations and financial condition may be adversely affected.. In 2008, the FHFA placed Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac under federal conservatorship. As its conservator, the FHFA has broad regulatory powers over Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and has entered into Preferred Stock Purchase Agreements, as amended, (\"PSPAs\") pursuant to which the Treasury ensures that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac will separately maintain a positive net worth by committing to purchase preferred stock of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. The FHFA as the regulator of the GSEs has proposed several reforms including, among other things, building a common, single, securitization platform between the two entities and gradually contracting their presence in the mortgage marketplace. In addition, the U.S. Congress at various times has considered structural changes to the GSEs, including winding down the GSEs and replacing them with a privately capitalized system that is intended to preserve market liquidity and protect taxpayers from future GSE losses due to economic downturns.. The outcome of the conservatorship and the scope and nature of actions that may ultimately be taken by the U.S. Congress to reform the GSEs and the housing finance system, are not predictable at this point. Actions limiting the guarantee on future Agency MBS could impact the amount of Agency MBS available to be purchased which could lead to increased competition and reduced returns from these assets. It could also negatively impact our ability to comply with the provisions of the 1940 Act (see further discussion below regarding the 1940 Act).  On the other hand, actions expanding the guarantee on future Agency MBS could make Agency MBS more expensive and could impact potential returns on these investments.. Fannie Mae's and Freddie Mac's long-term financial viability is highly dependent on governmental support. If the Treasury withdraws its support, the value of Agency MBS could significantly decline, which would make it difficult for us to obtain repurchase agreement financing and could force us to sell assets at substantial losses. In addition, future policies that change the relationship between Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the U.S. government, including those that result in their winding down, release from conservatorship, nationalization, privatization, or elimination, may create market uncertainty and have the effect of reducing the actual or perceived credit quality of securities issued or guaranteed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. As a result, such policies could increase the risk of loss on investments in Agency MBS. It also is possible that such policies could adversely impact the market for such securities and spreads at which they trade, and thereby adversely impact the profitability of our investments.. All of the foregoing could materially adversely affect the availability, pricing, liquidity, market value and financing of our assets and materially adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition.. Our investment strategy includes investing in non-Agency MBS with credit risk. Many of these securities have some form of subordinate credit enhancement within the security structure. The performance of these securities is dependent in large part on the performance of the underlying mortgage loans relative to the amount of the subordinate credit enhancement within the security structure. These mortgage loans are subject to defaults, foreclosure timeline extension, fraud, price depreciation, and unfavorable modification of loan principal amount, interest rate, and premium, any of which could result in losses to us.. Non-Agency MBS are secured by mortgage loans (generally single family residential properties for RMBS and pools of commercial mortgage loans for CMBS) that have no guarantee of repayment. Typically, non-Agency MBS have non-rated or low rated tranches or classes that are subordinate to principal payments to higher rated classes and absorb losses on the liquidation of the underlying loans. We own securities that generally have some form of credit subordination to our investment with respect to credit losses on the underlying mortgage loans. We bear a risk of loss of principal on our security to the extent losses experienced on the loans in these securities are in excess of such subordination.. Commercial mortgage loans that collateralize CMBS and CMBS IO generally have a higher principal balance, and the ability of a borrower to repay a loan secured by an income-producing property typically is dependent upon the successful. 14. operation of the property rather than upon the existence of independent income or assets of the borrower. If the net operating income of a commercial property is reduced, the borrower's ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Net operating income of an income-producing property can be affected by, among other things, economic conditions, tenancy, location and condition, property management decisions, competition, regulations, environmental conditions, occupancy rates, interest rates and real estate tax rates and other operating expenses. Losses on underlying commercial mortgage loans will potentially impact the yield on the CMBS and CMBS IO securities we own and could also negatively impact their market value. Negative impacts on yields will reduce our net income and reductions in market values could lead to margin calls by our lenders which, if significant, could force us to sell assets possibly at losses to meet margin calls.. RMBS securities are generally collateralized by pools of single family mortgage loans which have less idiosyncratic risk than CMBS and CMBS IO. The ability of a borrower to repay a mortgage loan secured by a residential property is dependent upon the income or assets of the borrower. Many factors may impair borrowers' abilities to repay their loans, including among other things, their employment situation, economic conditions, and the availability of refinancing.  In the event of defaults on the residential mortgage loans that underlie our investments in RMBS and the exhaustion of any underlying or any additional credit support, we may not realize our anticipated return on our investments and we may incur a loss on these investments.. We may change our investment strategy, operating policies, dividend policy, and/or asset allocations without shareholder consent and/or in a manner in which shareholders, analysts, and capital markets may not agree, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, the market price of our common stock, and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders.. A change in our investment strategy or asset allocation may materially change our exposure to interest rate and/or credit risk, default risk and real estate market fluctuations. These changes could have a material impact on our ability to continue to pay a dividend at a level that we had previously paid before the change in strategy. Furthermore, if any change in investment strategy, asset allocation, operating or dividend policy is perceived negatively by the markets or analysts covering our stock, our stock price may decline.. Competition may prevent us from acquiring new investments at favorable yields, and we may not be able to achieve our investment objectives which may potentially have a negative impact on our profitability.. Our net income will largely depend on our ability to acquire mortgage-related assets with acceptable risk-return profiles at favorable spreads over our borrowing costs. The availability of mortgage-related assets meeting our investment criteria depends upon, among other things, the level of activity in the real estate market and the quality of and demand for securities in the mortgage securitization and secondary markets. The size and level of activity in real estate lending markets depends on various factors, including interest rates, regional and national economic conditions, and real estate values. In acquiring investments, we may compete with other purchasers of these types of investments, including but not limited to other mortgage REITs, broker-dealers, hedge funds, banks, insurance companies, mutual funds, and other entities that purchase assets similar to ours, many of which have greater financial resources than we do. As a result of these factors, we may not be able to acquire sufficient assets at acceptable spreads to our borrowing costs, which would adversely affect our profitability.. In order to maintain our portfolio size and our earnings, we must reinvest the cash flows we receive from our existing investment portfolio, including monthly principal and interest payments and proceeds from sales. If the assets we acquire in the future earn lower yields than the assets we currently own, our reported earnings per share will likely decline over time as the older assets pay down or are sold. In addition, based on market conditions, our leverage, and our liquidity profile, we may decide to not reinvest the cash flows we receive from our investment portfolio. If we retain, rather than reinvest, these cash flows, the size of our investment portfolio and the amount of net interest income generated by our investment portfolio will likely decline.. Clearing facilities or exchanges may increase the margin requirements we are required to post when entering into derivative instruments, which may negatively impact our ability to hedge and our liquidity.. We are required to post margin when entering into a hedging instrument which is traded on an exchange or administered through a clearing house. The amount of margin is set for each derivative by the exchange or clearinghouse and in prior periods, exchanges have required additional margin in response to events having or expected to have adverse economic consequences. In the event that future adverse economic developments or market uncertainty (including those due to governmental, regulatory,. 15. or legislative action or inaction) result in increased margin requirements for our hedging instruments, it could materially adversely affect our liquidity position, business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may be subject to the risks associated with inadequate or untimely services from third-party service providers, which may negatively impact our results of operations. We also rely on corporate trustees to act on behalf of us and other holders of securities in enforcing our rights.. Loans underlying non-Agency MBS we own are serviced by third-party service providers.  These servicers provide for the primary and special servicing of these securities. In that capacity these service providers control all aspects of loan collection, loss mitigation, default management and ultimate resolution of a defaulted loan including as applicable the foreclosure and sale of the real estate owned. The servicer has a fiduciary obligation to act in the best interest of the securitization trust, but significant latitude exists with respect to certain of its servicing activities. We have no contractual rights with respect to these servicers, and our risk management operations may not be successful in limiting future delinquencies, defaults, and losses. If a third party servicer fails to perform its duties under the securitization documents, this may result in a material increase in delinquencies or losses to the securities. As a result, the value of the securities may be impacted, and we may incur losses on our investment.. In addition, should a servicer experience financial difficulties, it may not be able to perform its obligations. Due to application of provisions of bankruptcy law, servicers who have sought bankruptcy protection may not be required to make advance payments required under the terms of the agreements governing the securities of amounts due from loan borrowers. Even if a servicer were able to advance amounts in respect of delinquent loans, its obligation to make the advances may be limited to the extent that is does not expect to recover the advances due to the deteriorating credit of the delinquent loans.. We also rely on corporate trustees to act on behalf of us and other holders of securities in enforcing our rights. Under the terms of most securities we hold we do not have the right to directly enforce remedies against the issuer of the security, but instead must rely on a trustee to act on behalf of us and other security holders. Should a trustee not be required to take action under the terms of the securities, or fail to take action, we could experience losses.. Credit ratings assigned to debt securities by the credit rating agencies may not accurately reflect the risks associated with those securities. Changes in credit ratings for securities we own or for similar securities might negatively impact the market value of these securities.. Rating agencies rate securities based upon their assessment of the safety of the receipt of principal and interest payments on the securities. Rating agencies do not consider the risks of fluctuations in fair value or other factors that may influence the value of securities and, therefore, the assigned credit rating may not fully reflect the true risks of an investment in securities. Also, rating agencies may fail to make timely adjustments to credit ratings based on available data or changes in economic outlook or may otherwise fail to make changes in credit ratings in response to subsequent events, so the credit quality of our investments may be better or worse than the ratings indicate. We attempt to reduce the impact of the risk that a credit rating may not accurately reflect the risks associated with a particular debt security by not relying solely on credit ratings as the indicator of the quality of an investment. We make our acquisition decisions after factoring in other information that we have obtained about the loans underlying the security and the credit subordination structure of the security. Despite these efforts, our assessment of the quality of an investment may also prove to be inaccurate and we may incur credit losses in excess of our initial expectations.. Credit rating agencies may change their methods of evaluating credit risk and determining ratings on securities backed by real estate loans and securities. These changes may occur quickly and often. The market's ability to understand and absorb these changes, and the impact to the securitization market in general, are difficult to predict. Such changes may have a negative impact on the value of securities that we own.. If a lender to us in a repurchase transaction defaults on its obligation to resell the underlying security back to us at the end of the transaction term, or if we default on our obligations under a repurchase agreement, we will incur losses.. Repurchase agreement transactions are legally structured as the sale of a security to a lender in return for cash from the lender. These transactions are accounted for as financing agreements because the lenders are obligated to resell the same securities back to us at the end of the transaction term. Because the cash we receive from the lender when we initially sell the. 16. securities to the lender is less than the value of those securities, if the lender defaults on its obligation to resell the same securities back to us, we would incur a loss on the transaction equal to the difference between the value of the securities sold and the amount borrowed from the lender. The lender may default on its obligation to resell if it experiences financial difficulty or if the lender has re-hypothecated the security to another party who fails to transfer the security back to the lender. Additionally, if we default on one of our obligations under a repurchase agreement, the lender can terminate the transaction, sell the underlying collateral and cease entering into any other repurchase transactions with us. Any losses we incur on our repurchase transactions could adversely affect our earnings and reduce our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders.. In the event of bankruptcy either by ourselves or one or more of our third party lenders, under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, assets pledged as collateral under repurchase agreements may not be recoverable by us. We may incur losses equal to the excess of the collateral pledged over the amount of the associated repurchase agreement borrowing.. In the event that one of our lenders under a repurchase agreement files for bankruptcy, it may be difficult for us to recover our assets pledged as collateral to such lender. In addition, if we ever file for bankruptcy, lenders under our repurchase agreements may be able to avoid the automatic stay provisions of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code and take possession of and liquidate our collateral under our repurchase agreements without delay. In the event of a bankruptcy by one of our lenders, or us, we may incur losses in amounts equal to the excess of our collateral pledged over the amount of repurchase agreement borrowing due to the lender.. If we fail to properly conduct our operations, we could become subject to regulation under the 1940 Act. Conducting our business in a manner so that we are exempt from registration under and compliance with the 1940 Act may reduce our flexibility and could limit our ability to pursue certain opportunities.. We seek to conduct our operations to avoid falling under the definition of an investment company pursuant to the 1940 Act. Specifically, we seek to conduct our operations under the exemption provided under Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the 1940 Act, a provision available to companies primarily engaged in the business of purchasing and otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate. According to SEC no-action letters, companies relying on this exemption must ensure that at least 55% of their assets are mortgage loans and other qualifying assets, and at least 80% of their assets are real estate-related.  The 1940 Act requires that we and each of our subsidiaries evaluate our qualification for exemption under the Act. Our subsidiaries will rely either on Section 3(c)(5)(C) or other sections that provide exemptions from registering under the 1940 Act, including Sections 3(a)(1)(C) and 3(c)(7). The SEC issued a concept release in 2011 announcing that it was reviewing the Section 3(c)(5)(C) exemption, particularly as it relates to mortgage REITs, but has not taken any action or issued any interpretive guidance since that time. We believe that we are operating our business in accordance with the exemption requirements of Section 3(c)(5)(C).. Under the 1940 Act, an investment company is required to register with the SEC and is subject to extensive restrictive and potentially adverse regulations relating to, among other things, operating methods, management, capital structure, leverage, dividends, and transactions with affiliates. If we were determined to be an investment company, our ability to use leverage and conduct business as we do today would be substantially impaired.. If we fail to abide by certain Commodity Futures Trading Commission (\"CFTC\") rules and regulations, we may be subject enforcement action by the CFTC.. On December 7, 2012, the CFTC's Division of Swap Dealer and Intermediary Oversight (the \"Division\") issued no-action relief from commodity pool operator (\"CPO\") registration to mortgage REITs that use CFTC-regulated products (\"commodity interests\") and that satisfy certain enumerated criteria. Pursuant to the no-action letter, the Division will not recommend that the CFTC take enforcement action against a mortgage REIT if its operator fails to register as a CPO, provided that the mortgage REIT (i) submits a claim to take advantage of the relief and (ii) the mortgage REIT: (a) limits the initial margin and premiums required to establish its commodity interest positions to no greater than 5 percent of the fair market value of the mortgage REIT's total assets; (b) limits the net income derived annually from its commodity interest positions, excluding the income from commodity interest positions that are \"qualifying hedging transactions,\" to less than 5 percent of its annual gross income; (c) does not market interests in the mortgage REIT to the public as interests in a commodity pool or otherwise in a vehicle for trading in the commodity futures, commodity options or swaps markets; and (d) either: (A) identified itself as a \"mortgage REIT\" in Item G of its last U.S. income tax return on Form 1120-REIT; or (B) if it has not yet filed its first U.S.. 17. income tax return on Form 1120-REIT, it discloses to its shareholders that it intends to identify itself as a \"mortgage REIT\" in its first U.S. income tax return on Form 1120-REIT.. We believe that we have complied with all of the requirements set forth above as of and for the year ended December 31, 2017. If we fail to satisfy the criteria set forth above, or if the criteria change, we may become subject to CFTC regulation or enforcement action, the consequences of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. RISKS RELATED TO REGULATORY POLICY. The effects of legislative and regulatory changes on our business, the housing finance industry, and the markets in which we invest and borrow are uncertain and may be adverse to our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. As a result of the financial crisis in 2007 to 2008, Congress passed the Dodd-Frank Act in July 2010 which significantly increased the regulation of, and as a result significantly reduced certain activities of affected financial institutions. It also created agencies such as the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (\"CFPB\") and expanded certain powers of government regulatory agencies in an effort to enhance oversight of the financial services industry, including the housing finance industry. Although much of the Dodd-Frank Act has been implemented, there are some key aspects of the legislation not yet implemented. There is significant uncertainty regarding the legislative and regulatory changes that will be implemented or proposed by the administration of President Trump and the current U.S. Congress, particularly regarding the possible repeal of portions of the Dodd-Frank Act, housing policy and housing finance reform in the U.S., and the future roles of regulatory agencies such as the CFPB.  Due to this uncertainty, it is not possible for us to predict how legislative or regulatory changes will affect our business, and there can be no assurance that these regulations will not have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.. In addition, there is an ongoing debate over the degree and kind of regulation that should be applied to entities that participate in what is popularly referred to as \"shadow banking.\" While there is no authoritative definition of what \"shadow banking\" is, it generally refers to financial intermediation involving entities and activities outside of the traditional depositary banking system, such as mortgage REITs, repurchase agreement financing, securitizations, private equity funds and hedge funds. A general policy concern is that an aspect or component of shadow banking that is not subject to banking regulation - such as safety and soundness regulation and capital requirements - or other government oversight could be a source of financial instability or pose systemic risk to the broader banking and financial markets. Several organizations, including the Financial Stability Board (an international organization comprised of representatives from national financial authorities, central banks and international finance organizations primarily from the Group of Twenty Nations) and the Financial Stability Oversight Council (established by the Dodd-Frank Act) have issued policy recommendations to strengthen oversight and regulation of shadow banking. While at this stage it is difficult to predict the type and scope of any new regulations that may be adopted, if such regulations were to extend the regulatory and supervisory requirements currently applicable to banks, such as capital and liquidity standards, to our business or that of our financing counterparties or mortgage originators, or were to otherwise classify all or a portion of our business (including financing strategy) as shadow banking, our regulatory and operating costs, particularly borrowing costs, could increase, which may have a material adverse effect on our business.. U.S. regulators have adopted capitalization standards for U.S. domiciled broker dealers of foreign banks. When fully implemented, these regulations and capitalization standards may impact the future availability of repurchase agreement financing which could impact our business model and adversely affect our financial conditions and results of operations.. The Federal Reserve has adopted rules that will require foreign bank holding companies with combined U.S. assets of more than $50 billion to establish an intermediate holding company (\"IHC\") that is headquartered in the U.S. over the company's U.S. subsidiaries. Any such IHC will be subject to U.S. regulatory capital and leverage requirements, subject to meeting relevant asset thresholds, as well as regulatory capital planning and stress testing requirements. This increased regulatory oversight could further limit the repurchase agreement financing made available by these foreign IHCs and their subsidiaries and affiliates, which could further increase our cost of financing. If the increased regulatory oversight causes the availability of repurchase agreement financing to decline, we may have fewer financing options in the future which could lead to lower profitability and could adversely affect our financial condition.. 18. During 2015, U.S. federal banking regulators adopted final rules to impose a capital surcharge on U.S. banks that are global systemically important banks. This capital surcharge began in 2016 and will continue being phased in until 2019 and requires these institutions to hold from 1.0% to 4.5% additional common equity Tier 1 capital, depending on the institution's systemic importance calculated as provided in the final rules, over the minimum risk-based capital requirements. During 2016, U.S. federal banking regulators adopted final rules to impose loss absorbency requirements, or a measure of combined eligible Tier 1 capital and eligible long-term debt, on U.S. banks that are global systemically important banks. These rules also require these institutions to maintain an outstanding amount of eligible long-term debt based on either risk-weighted assets or average total consolidated assets.  These final rules aim to increase covered institutions' capital and leverage ratios and to increase the capital available to support or resolve these institutions in periods of severe market stress or in the event of resolution. Application of the capital surcharge and loss absorbency requirements may change the leverage and funding profiles of the largest U.S. banks and their affiliates and counterparties, including entities from which we obtain financing, and could lead to a reduction in the amount of repurchase financing made available to the financing markets.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR TAXATION AS A REIT AND OTHER TAX RELATED MATTERS. Qualifying as a REIT involves highly technical and complex provisions of the Code, and a technical or inadvertent violation could jeopardize our REIT qualification.  Maintaining our REIT status may reduce our flexibility to manage our operations.. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions for which only limited judicial and administrative authorities exist.  Even a technical or inadvertent violation could jeopardize our REIT qualification.  Our qualification as a REIT will depend on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis.  Our operations and use of leverage also subjects us to interpretations of the Code, and technical or inadvertent violations of the relevant requirements under the Code could cause us to lose our REIT status or to pay significant penalties and interest.  In addition, our ability to satisfy the requirements to qualify as a REIT depends in part on the actions of third parties over which we have no control or only limited influence, including in cases where we own an equity interest in an entity that is classified as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. Maintaining our REIT status may limit flexibility in managing our operations.  For instance:. • If we make frequent asset sales from our REIT entities to persons deemed customers, we could be viewed as a \"dealer,\" and thus subject to 100% prohibited transaction taxes or other entity level taxes on income from such transactions.. • Compliance with the REIT income and asset requirements may limit the type or extent of hedging that we can undertake and could limit our ability to invest in TBA securities.. • Our ability to own non-real estate related assets and earn non-real estate related income is limited.  Our ability to own equity interests in other entities is limited.  If we fail to comply with these limits, we may be forced to liquidate attractive assets on short notice on unfavorable terms in order to maintain our REIT status.. • Our ability to invest in taxable subsidiaries is limited under the REIT rules.  Maintaining compliance with this limitation could require us to constrain the growth of future taxable REIT affiliates.. • Notwithstanding our NOL carryforward, meeting minimum REIT dividend distribution requirements could reduce our liquidity.  Earning non-cash REIT taxable income could necessitate our selling assets, incurring debt, or raising new equity in order to fund dividend distributions.. • Stock ownership tests may limit our ability to raise significant amounts of equity capital from one source.. If we do not qualify as a REIT or fail to remain qualified as a REIT, we may be subject to tax as a regular corporation and could face a tax liability, which would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our shareholders.. We intend to operate in a manner that will allow us to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. Our qualification as a REIT will depend on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis. Our ability to satisfy the asset tests depends upon our analysis of the characterization and fair market values of our assets, some of which are not susceptible to a precise determination, and for which we will not obtain. 19. independent appraisals. Our compliance with the REIT income and quarterly asset requirements also depends upon our ability to successfully manage the composition of our income and assets on an ongoing basis.. If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we would be subject to federal income tax, after consideration of our NOL carryforward but not considering any dividends paid to our shareholders during the respective tax year. If we could not otherwise offset this taxable income with our NOL carryforward, the resulting corporate tax liability could be material to our results and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our shareholders, which in turn could have an adverse impact on the value of our common stock. Unless we were entitled to relief under certain Code provisions, we also would be disqualified from taxation as a REIT until the fifth taxable year following the year for which we failed to qualify as a REIT.. The recent passage of the TCJA may adversely affect the U.S. residential housing market, which could adversely affect our business.. The TCJA includes changes that could have an adverse impact on the U.S. residential housing and housing finance markets and potentially impact the market value of our investments. Among other items, the TCJA imposes new restrictions on the deductibility of interest on mortgage debt, state and local income taxes, and sales and property taxes, which may reduce home affordability and/or demand for residential real estate and adversely affect home prices. In addition, such changes may increase taxes payable by certain borrowers, thereby reducing their available cash and adversely impacting their ability to make payments on their residential mortgages, which in turn, could cause losses on our investments.. Dividends payable by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates available for some dividends.. The maximum tax rate applicable to \"qualified dividend income\" payable to U.S. stockholders that are taxed at individual rates is lower than corresponding maximum ordinary income tax rates. Dividends payable by REITs, however, are generally not eligible for the reduced rates on qualified dividend income. Rather, under the recently enacted TCJA, qualified REIT dividends constitute \"qualified business income\" and thus a 20% deduction is available to individual taxpayers with respect to such dividends, resulting in a 29.6% maximum federal tax rate (plus the 3.8% surtax on net investment income, if applicable) for individual U.S. stockholders. Additionally, without further legislative action, the 20% deduction applicable to qualified REIT dividends will expire on January 1, 2026. The more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate qualified dividends could cause investors who are taxed at individual rates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the shares of REITs, including our common stock.. Legislative or other actions affecting REITs could materially and adversely affect us and our stockholders.. The rules dealing with U.S. federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the IRS and the U.S. Department of the Treasury. Changes to the tax laws, with or without retroactive application, could materially and adversely affect us and our stockholders. We cannot predict how changes in the tax laws might affect us or our stockholders. New legislation, U.S. Treasury regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could significantly and negatively affect our ability to qualify as a REIT or the U.S. federal income tax consequences of such qualification.. In addition, the effect of substantive changes made by the TCJA is highly uncertain, both in terms of their direct effect on the taxation of an investment in our common stock and their indirect effect on the value of our assets. Furthermore, many of the provisions of the TCJA will require guidance through the issuance of U.S. Treasury regulations in order to assess their effect. There may be a substantial delay before such regulations are promulgated, increasing the uncertainty as to the ultimate effect of the statutory amendments on us. It is also likely that there will be technical corrections legislation proposed with respect to the TCJA, the timing and effect of which cannot be predicted and may be adverse to us or our stockholders.. Our future use of our tax NOL carryforward is limited under Section 382 of the Code, which could result in higher taxable income and greater distribution requirements in order to maintain our REIT status. Further, if we unknowingly undergo another ownership change pursuant to Section 382, or miscalculate the limitations imposed by a known ownership change,. 20. and utilize an impermissible amount of the NOL, we may fail to meet the distribution requirements of a REIT and therefore we could lose our REIT status.. We can use our tax NOL carryforward to offset our taxable earnings after taking the REIT distribution requirements into account. Section 382 of the Code limits the amount of NOL that could be used to offset taxable earnings after an \"ownership change\" occurs. A Section 382 ownership change generally occurs if one or more shareholders who own at least 5% of our stock, or certain groups of shareholders, increase their aggregate ownership by more than 50 percentage points over their lowest ownership percentage within a rolling three-year period.. In 2012, we experienced an ownership change under Section 382 and based on management's analysis and expert third-party advice, which necessarily includes certain assumptions regarding the application of Section 382, we determined that the ownership change under Section 382 will limit our ability to use our NOL carryforward to offset our taxable income to an estimated maximum amount of $13.5 million per year. Because NOLs generally may be carried forward for up to 20 years, this annual limitation may effectively limit the cumulative amount of pre-ownership change losses and certain recognized built-in losses that we may utilize. This would result in higher taxable income and greater distribution requirements in order to maintain REIT qualification than if such limitation were not in effect.. We may incur additional ownership changes under Section 382 in the future, in which case the use of our NOL could be further limited. If further ownership changes occur, Section 382 would impose stricter annual limits on the amount of pre-ownership change NOLs and other losses we could use to reduce our taxable income.. If we unknowingly undergo another ownership change under Section 382, or miscalculate the limitations imposed by a known ownership change, the use of the NOL could be limited more than we have determined and we may utilize (or may have utilized) more of the NOL than we otherwise may have been allowed. In such an instance we may be required to pay taxes, penalties and interest on the excess amount of NOL used, or we may be required to declare a deficiency dividend to our shareholders for the excess amount. In addition, if any impermissible use of the NOL led to a failure to comply with the REIT distribution requirements, we could fail to qualify as a REIT.. We have not established a minimum dividend payment level and we cannot assure you of our ability to pay dividends in the future.. We intend to pay quarterly dividends to our common stockholders and to make distributions to our shareholders in amounts such that all or substantially all of our taxable income, subject to certain adjustments including utilization of our NOL, is distributed. However, we have not established a minimum dividend payment level, and the amount of our dividend will fluctuate. Our ability to pay dividends may be adversely affected by the risk factors described herein. All distributions will be made at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on our GAAP and tax earnings, our financial condition, the requirements for REIT qualification and such other factors as our Board of Directors may deem relevant from time to time. We may not be able to make distributions, or our Board of Directors may change our dividend policy in the future. To the extent that we decide to pay dividends in excess of our current and accumulated tax earnings and profits, such distributions would generally be considered a return of capital for federal income tax purposes. A return of capital reduces the basis of a stockholder's investment in our common stock to the extent of such basis and is treated as capital gain thereafter.. Our ability to invest in and dispose of TBA securities could be limited by our REIT status, and we could lose our REIT status as a result of these investments.. The Code is unclear regarding whether TBA securities are qualifying assets for the 75% asset test and whether income and gains from dispositions of TBA securities are qualifying income for the 75% gross income test.  In addition, there is uncertainty under the Code pursuant to the \"5% asset test,\" whereby ownership of any stocks or securities that do not qualify under the 75% asset test must be limited, in respect of any single non-governmental issuer, to an amount not greater than 5% of the value of our total assets (excluding ownership of any taxable REIT subsidiaries). Given the uncertainty regarding the tax treatment of TBAs, we will seek to limit our investment in TBAs and any other non-qualifying assets to no more than 25% of our assets at the end of any calendar quarter and will limit our investments in TBAs with a single counterparty to no more than 5% of our total assets at the end of any calendar quarter. Further, we will attempt to limit our gains from TBA transactions and any other non-qualifying income to no more than 25% of our gross income for each calendar year. Accordingly, our ability to invest in. 21. TBAs utilizing dollar roll transactions could be limited. If at some point in the future we receive a written opinion that TBAs are more likely than not to be qualifying assets for the 75% asset test and to generate qualifying income for the 75% gross income test, we may subsequently increase our investment in TBAs.. Moreover, even if we receive an opinion that TBAs and the related transactions should be treated as qualifying assets or that income and gains from dispositions of TBAs should be treated as qualifying income, the IRS could successfully challenge that position. In that event, we could be subject to a penalty tax or we could fail to qualify as a REIT if (i) the value of our TBAs, together with our other non-qualifying assets for the 75% asset test, exceeded 25% of our gross assets at the end of any calendar quarter or if the value of our investments in TBAs with a single counterparty exceeded 5% of our total assets at the end of any calendar quarter or (ii) our income and gains from the disposition of TBAs, together with our other non-qualifying income for the 75% gross income test, exceeded 25% of our gross income for any taxable year.  Any such penalty tax or failure to qualify as a REIT could adversely affect our business operations, financial condition or results of operations.. The failure of investments subject to repurchase agreements to qualify as real estate assets could adversely affect our ability to qualify as a REIT.. Repurchase agreement financing arrangements are structured legally as a sale and repurchase whereby we sell certain of our investments to a counterparty and simultaneously enter into an agreement to repurchase these securities at a later date in exchange for a purchase price. Economically, these agreements are financings which are secured by the investments sold pursuant thereto. We believe that we would be treated for REIT asset and income test purposes as the owner of the securities that are the subject of any such sale and repurchase agreement, notwithstanding that such agreement may legally transfer record ownership of the securities to the counterparty during the term of the agreement. It is possible, however, that the IRS could assert that we did not own the securities during the term of the sale and repurchase agreement, in which case we could fail to qualify as a REIT.. Even if we remain qualified as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow and our profitability.. Even if we remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, tax on income from some activities conducted as a result of a foreclosure or considered prohibited transactions under the Code, and state or local income taxes.  Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to our shareholders.  In addition, in order to meet the REIT qualification requirements, or to avert the imposition of a 100% tax that applies to certain gains derived by a REIT from prohibited transactions, we may hold some of our assets through a taxable REIT subsidiary (\"TRS\") or other subsidiary corporations that will be subject to corporate-level income tax at regular rates to the extent that such TRS does not have an NOL carryforward.  Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to our shareholders.. Recognition of excess inclusion income by us could have adverse consequences to us or our shareholders.. Certain of our securities have historically generated excess inclusion income and may continue to do so in the future. Certain categories of shareholders, such as foreign shareholders eligible for treaty or other benefits, shareholders with NOLs, and certain tax-exempt shareholders that are subject to unrelated business income tax, could be subject to increased taxes on a portion of their dividend income from us that is attributable to excess inclusion income. In addition, to the extent that our stock is owned by tax-exempt \"disqualified organizations,\" such as certain government-related entities and charitable remainder trusts that are not subject to tax on unrelated business income, we may incur a corporate level tax on a portion of our income. In that case, we may reduce the amount of our distributions to any disqualified organization whose stock ownership gave rise to the tax.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR CORPORATE STRUCTURE. The stock ownership limit imposed by the Code for REITs and our Articles of Incorporation may restrict our business combination opportunities. The stock ownership limitation may also result in reduced liquidity in our stock and may result in losses to an acquiring shareholder.. To qualify as a REIT under the Code, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Code to include certain entities) at any time during the last half of each. 22. taxable year. Our Articles of Incorporation, with certain exceptions, authorize our Board of Directors to take the actions that are necessary and desirable to qualify as a REIT. Pursuant to our Articles of Incorporation, no person may beneficially or constructively own more than 9.8% of our capital stock (including our common stock, Series A Preferred Stock, and Series B Preferred Stock). Our Board of Directors may grant an exemption from this 9.8% stock ownership limitation, in its sole discretion, subject to such conditions, representations and undertakings as it may determine are reasonably necessary.. Whether we would waive the ownership limitation for any other shareholder will be determined by our Board of Directors on a case by case basis. Our Articles of Incorporation's constructive ownership rules are complex and may cause the outstanding stock owned by a group of related individuals or entities to be deemed as constructively owned by one individual or entity. As a result, the acquisition of less than these percentages of the outstanding stock by an individual or entity could cause that individual or entity to own constructively in excess of these percentages of the outstanding stock and thus be subject to the ownership limit. The Board of Directors has the right to refuse to transfer any shares of our capital stock in a transaction that would result in ownership in excess of the ownership limit. In addition, we have the right to redeem shares of our capital stock held in excess of the ownership limit.. The ownership limits imposed by the tax law are based upon direct or indirect ownership by \"individuals,\" but only during the last half of a tax year. The ownership limits contained in our Articles of Incorporation apply to the ownership at any time by any \"person,\" which includes entities, and are intended to assist us in complying with the tax law requirements and to minimize administrative burdens. However, these ownership limits might also delay or prevent a transaction or a change in our control that might involve a premium price for our stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our shareholders.. The stock ownership limit imposed by the Code for REITs and our Articles of Incorporation may impair the ability of holders to convert shares of our Series A Preferred Stock or Series B Preferred Stock into shares of our common stock upon a change of control.. The terms of our Series A Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock provide that, upon occurrence of a change of control (as defined in the Articles of Incorporation), each holder of Series A Preferred Stock or Series B Preferred Stock will potentially have the right to convert in conjunction with a change in control all or part of the Series A Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock held by such holder into a number of shares of our common stock per share of Series A Preferred Stock or Series B Preferred Stock, respectively, based on formulas set forth in our Articles of Incorporation. However, the stock ownership restrictions in our Articles of Incorporation also restrict ownership of shares of our Series A Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock. As a result, no holder of Series A Preferred Stock or Series B Preferred Stock will be entitled to convert such stock into our common stock to the extent that receipt of our common stock would cause the holder to exceed the ownership limitations contained in our Articles of Incorporation, endanger the tax status of one or more real estate mortgage investment conduits (\"REMICs\") in which we have or plan to have an interest, or result in the imposition of a direct or indirect penalty tax on us. These provisions may limit the ability of a holder of Series A Preferred Stock or Series B Preferred Stock to convert shares of Series A Preferred Stock or Series B Preferred Stock into our common stock upon a change of control, which could adversely affect the market price of shares of our Series A Preferred Stock or of our Series B Preferred Stock."
