[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. Our business is subject to various risks and uncertainties in the course of our business. The following summarizes significant risks and uncertainties that may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We cannot assure you that any of the events discussed in the risk factors below will not occur. Further, the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also materially affect our business. When considering an investment in our shares of Class A Common Stock, you should carefully consider the risk factors included below as well as those matters referenced in this report under \"Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements\" and other information included and incorporated by reference into this report.. We are a holding company and the sole manager of EEH. Our only material asset is our equity interest in EEH and, accordingly, we are dependent upon distributions from EEH to cover our corporate and other overhead expenses and pay taxes.. Upon the closing of the Contribution Agreement on May 9, 2017, we became a holding company and the sole manager of EEH and have no material assets other than our equity interest in EEH. We have no independent means of generating revenue. We expect EEH to reimburse us for our corporate and other overhead expenses, and to the extent EEH has available cash, we intend to cause EEH to make distributions to the holders of EEH Units, including us, in an amount sufficient to cover all applicable U.S. federal, state and local income taxes and non-U.S. tax liabilities of Earthstone, Lynden Corp and Lynden US, if any, at assumed tax rates. We will likely be limited, however, in our ability to cause EEH and its subsidiaries to make these and other distributions due to the restrictions under an agreement providing for our senior secured revolving credit facility (the \"EEH Credit Agreement\"). To the extent that we need funds, and EEH or its subsidiaries are restricted from making such distributions under applicable law or regulation or under the terms of their financing arrangements, or are otherwise unable to provide such funds, it could materially adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition.. Oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids prices are volatile. Their prices since 2014 have adversely affected, and in the future may adversely affect, our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to meet our capital expenditure obligations and financial commitments. Volatile and lower prices may also negatively impact our stock price.. The prices we receive for our oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids production heavily influence our revenues, profitability, access to capital and future rate of growth. These hydrocarbons are commodities, and therefore, their prices may be subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand. Historically, the market for oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids has been volatile. For example, during the period from January 1, 2014 through December 31, 2017, the West Texas Intermediate (\"WTI\") futures price for oil declined from a high of $107.26 per Bbl on June 20, 2014 to $26.21 per Bbl on February 11, 2016, and subsequently increased to reach a high of $60.01 per Bbl in December 2017; and the Henry Hub futures price for natural gas has declined from a high of $6.15 per MMBtu on February 19, 2014 to a low of $1.64 per MMBtu on March 3, 2016, and subsequently increased to reach a high of $3.69 per MMBtu in December 2017. Likewise, natural gas liquids, which are made up of ethane, propane, isobutane, normal butane and natural gasoline, each of which have different uses and different pricing characteristics, have experienced significant declines in realized prices since the fall of 2014. The prices we receive for oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids we produce and our production levels depend on numerous factors beyond our control, including:. •  worldwide and regional economic and financial conditions impacting global and regional supply and demand;. •  the level of global exploration, development and production;. •  the level of global supplies, in particular due to supply growth from the United States;. •  the price and quantity of U.S. imports and exports, including liquefied natural gas;. •  political conditions in or affecting other oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids producing countries, including the current conflicts in the Middle East, as well as conditions in South America, Africa and Russia;. •  actions of the OPEC and state-controlled oil companies relating to production and price controls;. •  the extent to which U.S. shale producers become swing producers adding or subtracting to the world supply totals;. •  future regulations prohibiting or restricting our ability to apply hydraulic fracturing to our wells;. •  current and future regulations regarding well spacing;. •  prevailing prices and pricing differentials on local oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids price indices in the areas in which we operate;. •  localized and global supply and demand fundamentals and transportation, gathering and processing availability;. •  weather conditions;. 22. •  technological advances affecting energy consumption;. •  the price and availability of alternative fuels; and. •  domestic, local and foreign governmental regulation and taxes.. Lower oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids prices have and may continue to reduce our cash flows and borrowing capacity. We may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a decline in our hydrocarbon reserves as existing reserves are depleted. A decrease in prices could render development projects and producing properties uneconomic, potentially resulting in a loss of mineral leases.   Low commodity prices have, at times, caused significant downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves, and may cause us to make further downward adjustments in the future. Furthermore, our borrowing capacity could be significantly affected by decreased prices.  Under the EEH Credit Agreement, our borrowing base is subject to semi-annual redeterminations (May 1 and November 1) and our lenders have the right to call for an interim determination of the borrowing base under certain circumstances. A sustained decline in oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids prices could adversely impact our borrowing base in future borrowing base redeterminations, which could trigger repayment obligations under the EEH Credit Agreement to the extent our outstanding borrowings exceed the redetermined borrowing base and could otherwise materially and adversely affect our future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or ability to finance planned capital expenditures. In addition, lower oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids gas prices may cause a decline in the market price of our shares.. As a result of low prices for oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids, we have taken and may be required to take significant future write-downs of the financial carrying values of our properties.. Accounting rules require that we periodically review the carrying value of our properties for possible impairment. Based on prevailing commodity prices and specific market factors and circumstances at the time of prospective impairment reviews, and the continuing evaluation of development plans, production data, economics and other factors, we have been required to, and may be required to significantly write-down the financial carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties, which constitutes a non-cash charge to earnings.  We may incur impairment charges in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the periods in which such charges are recorded.. A write-down could occur when oil and natural gas prices are low or if we have substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved oil and natural gas reserves, if operating costs or development costs increase over prior estimates, or if exploratory drilling is unsuccessful.. The capitalized costs of our oil and natural gas properties, on a field-by-field basis, may exceed the estimated future net cash flows of that field. If so, we would record impairment charges to reduce the capitalized costs of such field to our estimate of the field's fair market value. Unproved properties are evaluated at the lower of cost or fair market value. These types of charges will reduce our earnings and stockholders' equity and could adversely affect our stock price.. We periodically assess our properties for impairment based on future estimates of proved and non-proved reserves, oil and natural gas prices, production rates and operating, development and reclamation costs based on operating budget forecasts. Once incurred, an impairment charge cannot be reversed at a later date even if price increases of oil and/or natural gas occur and in the event of increases in the quantity of our estimated proved reserves.. If oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids prices fall below current levels for an extended period of time and all other factors remain equal, we may incur impairment charges in the future. Such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the periods in which they are recorded. See Note 6. Oil and Natural Gas Properties to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report for additional information.. Any significant reduction in our borrowing base under the EEH Credit Agreement as a result of a periodic borrowing base redetermination or otherwise may negatively impact our liquidity and, consequently, our ability to fund our operations, including capital expenditures, and we may not have sufficient funds to repay borrowings under the EEH Credit Agreement or any other obligation if required as a result of a borrowing base redetermination.. Availability under the EEH Credit Agreement is currently subject to a borrowing base of $185.0 million. The borrowing base is subject to scheduled semiannual redeterminations (May 1 and November 1), as well as other elective borrowing base redeterminations. The lenders can unilaterally adjust the borrowing base and the borrowings permitted to be outstanding under the EEH Credit Agreement. Reductions in estimates of our oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids reserves may result in a reduction in our borrowing base under the EEH Credit Agreement (if prices are kept constant). Reductions in our borrowing base under the EEH Credit Agreement could also arise from other factors, including but not limited to:. •  lower commodity prices or production;. •  increased leverage ratios;. 23. •  inability to drill or unfavorable drilling results;. •  changes in oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids reserve engineering techniques;. •  increased operating and/or capital costs;. •  the lenders' inability to agree to an adequate borrowing base; or. •  adverse changes in the lenders' practices (including required regulatory changes) regarding estimation of reserves.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $25.0 million of borrowings outstanding under the EEH Credit Agreement. We may make further borrowings under the EEH Credit Agreement in the future. Any significant reduction in our borrowing base under the EEH Credit Agreement as a result of borrowing base redeterminations or otherwise will negatively impact our liquidity and our ability to fund our operations and, as a result, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Further, if the outstanding borrowings under the EEH Credit Agreement were to exceed the borrowing base as a result of any such redetermination, we could be required to repay the excess.. Unless we replace our reserves, our production and estimated reserves will decline, which may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows.. Producing oil and natural gas reservoirs are generally characterized by declining production rates that may vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Decline rates are typically greatest early in the productive life of a well, particularly horizontal wells. Estimates of the decline rate of an oil or natural gas well are inherently imprecise and may be less precise with respect to new or emerging oil and natural gas formations with limited production histories than for more developed formations with established production histories. Our production levels and the reserves that we currently expect to recover from our wells will change if production from our existing wells declines in a different manner than we have estimated and can change under other circumstances. Thus, our estimated future oil and natural gas reserves and production and, therefore, our cash flows and results of operations are highly dependent upon our success in efficiently developing and exploiting our current properties and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. We may not be able to develop, find or acquire additional reserves to replace our current and future production at acceptable costs. If we are unable to replace our current and future production, our cash flows and the value of our reserves may decrease, adversely affecting our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Estimates of proved oil and natural gas reserves involve assumptions and any material inaccuracies in these assumptions will materially affect the quantities and the value of those reserves.. This report contains estimates of our proved oil and natural gas reserves. These estimates are based upon various assumptions, including assumptions required by SEC regulations relating to oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex and requires significant decisions, complex analyses and assumptions in evaluating available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data for each reservoir. Therefore, these estimates are inherently imprecise.. Our actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves will vary from those estimated. Any significant variance will likely materially affect the estimated quantities and the estimated value of our reserves. In addition, we may later adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development activities, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control.. Quantities of estimated proved reserves are based on economic conditions in existence during the period of assessment. Changes to oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids prices in the markets for these commodities may shorten the economic lives of certain fields because it may become uneconomical to produce all recoverable reserves in such fields, which may reduce proved reserves estimates.. Negative revisions in the estimated quantities of proved reserves have the effect of increasing the rates of depletion on the affected properties, which decrease earnings or result in losses through higher depletion expense. These revisions, as well as revisions in the assumptions of future estimated cash flows of those reserves, may also trigger impairment losses on certain properties, which may result in non-cash charges to earnings. See Note 6. Oil and Natural Gas Properties, to our consolidated financial statements included in this report.. The development of our estimated proved undeveloped reserves may take longer and may require higher levels of capital expenditures than we currently anticipate. Therefore, our estimated proved undeveloped reserves may not be ultimately developed or produced.. At December 31, 2017, approximately 75% of our estimated reserves were classified as proved undeveloped. The development of our estimated proved undeveloped reserves of 60,015 MBOE will require an estimated $665.9 million of development capital over the next five years.. 24. Development of these reserves may take longer and require higher levels of capital expenditures than we currently anticipate. The future development of our proved undeveloped reserves is dependent on successful drilling and completion results, future commodity prices, costs and economic assumptions that align with our internal forecasts, as well as access to liquidity sources, such as the capital markets, the EEH Credit Agreement and derivative contracts. Delays in the development of our reserves, increases in costs to drill and develop such reserves, or decreases in commodity prices will reduce the PV-10 value of our estimated proved undeveloped reserves and future net revenues estimated for such reserves and may result in some projects becoming uneconomic. Moreover, under the SEC regulations, we may be required to write down our proved undeveloped reserves if we do not drill or have a development plan to drill wells within a prescribed five-year period. The estimated reserve data assumes that we will make specified capital expenditures to timely develop our reserves. The estimates of these oil and natural gas reserves and the costs associated with development of these reserves have been prepared in accordance with SEC regulations; however, actual capital expenditures may vary from estimated capital expenditures, development may not occur as scheduled and actual results may not be as estimated.. The standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows from our estimated proved reserves may not be the same as the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves.. You should not assume that the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows from our estimated proved reserves set forth in this report is the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements in effect at December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, we based the discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves on the 12-month first-day-of-the-month oil and natural gas arithmetic average prices without giving effect to derivative transactions. Actual future net cash flows from our oil and natural gas properties will be affected by factors such as:. •  the actual prices we receive for oil and natural gas;. •  the actual cost of development and production expenditures;. •  the amount and timing of actual production; and. •  changes in governmental regulations or taxation.. The timing of both our production and incurring expenses related to developing and producing oil and natural gas properties will affect the timing and amount of actual future net revenues from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating standardized measure may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with our business or the oil and natural gas industry in general. As a corporation, we are treated as a taxable entity for statutory income tax purposes and our future income taxes will be dependent on our future taxable income. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the estimates included in this report which could have a material effect on the value of our estimated reserves.. Our development and exploratory drilling efforts and our well operations may not be profitable or achieve our targeted returns.. We have acquired significant amounts of unproved property in order to further our development efforts and expect to continue to undertake acquisitions in the future. Development and exploratory drilling and production activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that no commercially productive reservoirs will be discovered. We acquire unproved properties and lease undeveloped acreage that we believe will enhance our growth potential and increase our results of operations over time. However, we cannot assure you that all prospects will be economically viable or that we will not abandon our leaseholds. Additionally, we cannot assure you that unproved property acquired by us or undeveloped acreage leased by us will be profitably developed, that wells drilled by us in prospects that we pursue will be productive or that we will recover all or any portion of our investment in such unproved property or wells.. Properties we acquire may not produce as projected and we may be unable to determine reserve potential, identify liabilities associated with the properties that we acquire or obtain protection from sellers against such liabilities.. Acquiring oil and natural gas properties requires us to assess reservoir and infrastructure characteristics, including recoverable reserves, development and operating costs and potential environmental and other liabilities. Such assessments are inexact and inherently uncertain. In connection with the assessments, we perform a review of the subject properties, but such a review will not reveal all existing or potential problems. In the course of our due diligence, we may not inspect every well or pipeline. We cannot necessarily observe structural and environmental problems, such as pipe corrosion, when an inspection is made. We may not be able to obtain contractual indemnities from the seller for liabilities created prior to our purchase of a property. We may be required to assume the risk of the physical condition of properties in addition to the risk that they may not perform in accordance with our expectations.. 25. Future drilling and completion activities associated with identified drilling locations may be adversely affected by factors that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their drilling and completion, which in certain instances could prevent production prior to the expiration date of mineral leases for such locations.. Although our management team has  identified  numerous  potential drilling locations as a part of our long-range planning related to future drilling activities on our existing acreage, our ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of factors, which are beyond our control, including, the availability and cost of capital, oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids prices, drilling and production costs, the availability of drilling services and equipment, drilling results (including the impact of increased horizontal drilling density and longer laterals), lease expirations, gathering systems, marketing and pipeline transportation constraints, regulatory approvals and other factors.  As such, our actual drilling and completion activities, may materially differ from those presently anticipated. Accordingly, it is uncertain to what degree that these potential drilling locations will be developed or if we will be able to produce significant oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids from these or any other potential drilling locations.  Unless production is established, in accordance with the terms of mineral leases that are associated with these locations, such leases could expire.. Our acquisition, development and exploitation projects require substantial capital expenditures. We may be unable to obtain required capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a decline in our reserves.. The oil and natural gas industry is capital intensive. We make and expect to continue to make substantial capital expenditures for the acquisition and development of oil and natural gas reserves. We expect to fund our 2018 capital expenditures with cash on hand, cash generated by operations, borrowings under the EEH Credit Agreement and possibly through additional capital market transactions. The actual amount and timing of our future capital expenditures may differ materially from our estimates as a result of, among other things, oil and natural gas prices, actual drilling results, the availability of drilling rigs and other services and equipment and regulatory, technological and competitive developments. A reduction in commodity prices from current levels may result in a decrease in our actual capital expenditures, which would negatively impact our ability to grow production.. Our cash flow from operations and access to capital are subject to a number of variables, including:. •  our proved reserves;. •  the level of hydrocarbons we are able to produce from existing wells;. •  the prices at which our production is sold;. •  our ability to acquire, locate and produce reserves; and. •  our ability to borrow under the EEH Credit Agreement.. If our revenues or the borrowing base under the EEH Credit Agreement decrease as a result of low oil and natural gas prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations and growth at current levels. If additional capital is needed, we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on terms acceptable to us, if at all. The failure to obtain additional financing could result in a curtailment of our operations relating to development of our properties, which in turn could lead to a decline in our reserves and production and would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We have incremental cash inflows and outflows as a result of our hedging activities. To the extent we are unable to obtain future hedges at attractive prices or our derivative activities are not effective, our cash flows and financial condition may be adversely impacted.. In an effort to achieve more predictable cash flows and reduce our exposure to adverse fluctuations in the prices of oil and natural gas, we often enter into derivative instrument contracts for a portion of our oil and natural gas production, including swaps, collars, puts and basis swaps. We recognize all derivatives as either assets or liabilities, measured at fair value, and recognize changes in the fair value of derivatives in current earnings. Accordingly, our earnings may fluctuate significantly and our results of operations may be significantly and adversely affected because of changes in the fair market value of our derivative instruments. As our derivative instrument contracts expire, there is no assurance that we will be able to replace them comparably.. Derivative instruments can expose us to the risk of financial loss in varying circumstances, including, but not limited to, when:. •  production is less than the volume covered by the derivative instruments;. •  the counter-party to the derivative instrument defaults on its contractual obligations;. •  there is an increase in the differential between the underlying price stated in the derivative instrument contract and actual prices received; or. •  there are issues with regard to legal enforceability of such instruments.. 26. For additional information regarding our hedging activities, please see Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 5. Derivative Instruments in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report for additional information.. Derivatives reform legislation and related regulations could have an adverse effect on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business.. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the \"Dodd-Frank Act\") provides for federal oversight of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities that participate in that market and mandates that the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the \"CFTC\"), the SEC, and federal regulators of financial institutions adopt rules or regulations implementing the Dodd-Frank Act and providing definitions of terms used in the Dodd-Frank Act.. The CFTC has finalized other regulations implementing the Dodd-Frank Act's provisions regarding trade reporting, margin, clearing, and trade execution; however, some regulations remain to be finalized and it is not possible at this time to predict when the CFTC will adopt final rules. For example, the CFTC has re-proposed regulations setting position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents. Certain bona fide hedging transactions are expected to be made exempt from these limits. Also, it is possible that under recently adopted margin rules, some registered swap dealers may require us to post initial and variation margins in connection with certain swaps not subject to central clearing.. The Dodd-Frank Act and any additional implementing regulations could significantly increase the cost of some commodity derivative contracts (including through requirements to post collateral, which could adversely affect our available liquidity), materially alter the terms of some commodity derivative contracts, limit our ability to trade some derivatives to hedge risks, reduce the availability of some derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, and reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing commodity derivative contracts. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a consequence, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Increased volatility may make us less attractive to certain types of investors. Finally, the Dodd-Frank Act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and natural gas. If the implementing regulations result in lower commodity prices, our revenues could be adversely affected. Any of these consequences could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The oil and natural gas industry is highly competitive, and our small size puts us at a disadvantage in competing for resources.. The oil and natural gas industry is highly competitive. We compete with major integrated and larger independent oil and natural gas companies in seeking to acquire desirable oil and natural gas properties and leases and for the equipment and services required to develop and operate properties. Many of our competitors have financial and other resources that are substantially greater than ours, which makes acquisitions of acreage or producing properties at economic prices difficult. Significant competition also exists in attracting and retaining technical personnel, including geologists, geophysicists, engineers, landmen and other specialists, as well as financial and administrative personnel hence we may be at a competitive disadvantage to companies with larger financial resources than ours.. Failure to complete additional acquisitions could limit our potential growth.. Our future success is highly dependent on our ability to acquire and develop mineral leases and oil and gas properties with economically recoverable oil and natural gas reserves. Without continued successful acquisition, of economic development projects, our current estimated oil and natural gas reserves will decline due to continued production activities. Acquiring additional oil and natural gas properties, or businesses that own or operate such properties is an important component of our business strategy. If we identify an appropriate acquisition candidate, management may be unable to negotiate mutually acceptable terms with the seller, finance the acquisition or obtain the necessary regulatory approvals. Our limited access to financial resources compared to larger, better capitalized companies may limit our ability to make future acquisitions. If we are unable to complete suitable acquisitions, it may be more difficult to replace and increase our reserves, and an inability to replace our reserves may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Acquisitions involve a number of risks, including the risk that we will discover unanticipated liabilities or other problems associated with the acquired business or property.. In assessing potential acquisitions, we consider information available in the public domain and information provided by the seller. In the event publicly available data is limited, then, by necessity, we may rely to a large extent on information that may only be available from the seller, particularly with respect to drilling and completion costs and practices, geological, geophysical and petrophysical data, detailed production data on existing wells, and other technical and cost data not available in the public domain. Accordingly, the review and evaluation of businesses or properties to be acquired may not uncover all existing or relevant data, obligations or actual or contingent liabilities that could adversely impact any business or property to be acquired and, hence, could adversely affect us as a result of the acquisition. These issues may be material and could include, among other things, unexpected environmental liabilities, title defects, unpaid royalties, taxes or other liabilities. If we acquire properties on an \"as-is\" basis, we may have limited or no remedies against the seller with respect to these types of problems.. 27. The success of any acquisition that we complete will depend on a variety of factors, including our ability to accurately assess the reserves associated with the acquired properties, assumptions related to future oil and natural gas prices and operating costs, potential environmental and other liabilities and other factors. These assessments are often inexact and subjective. As a result, we may not recover the purchase price of a property from the sale of production from the property or recognize an acceptable return from such sales or operations.. Our ability to achieve the benefits that we expect from an acquisition will also depend on our ability to efficiently integrate the acquired operations. Management may be required to dedicate significant time and effort to the integration process, which could divert its attention from other business opportunities and concerns. The challenges involved in the integration process may include retaining key employees and maintaining employee morale, addressing differences in business cultures, processes and systems and developing internal expertise regarding acquired properties.. We may incur substantial losses and be subject to substantial liability claims as a result of our oil and natural gas operations, including our drilling operations.. Oil and natural gas exploration, development and production activities are subject to numerous significant operating risks, including the possibility of:. •  unanticipated, abnormally pressured formations;. •  significant mechanical difficulties, such as stuck drilling and service tools and casing collapses;. •  blowouts, fires and explosions;. •  personal injuries and death;. •  uninsured or underinsured losses; and. •  environmental hazards, such as uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas, brine, well fluids, toxic gas or other pollution into the environment, including groundwater contamination.. Any of these operating hazards could cause damage to properties, reduced cash flows, serious injuries, fatalities, oil spills, discharge of hazardous materials, remediation and clean-up costs and other environmental damages, which could expose us to significant liabilities. We may elect not to obtain insurance for any or all of these risks if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The nature of our business and assets exposes us to significant compliance costs and liabilities.. Our operations involving the exploration, development and production of hydrocarbons are subject to stringent federal, state, and local laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment as well as protection of the environment, operational safety, and related employee health and safety matters. Laws and regulations applicable to us include those relating but not limited to the following:. •  land use restrictions;. •  delivery of our oil and natural gas to market;. •  drilling bonds and other financial responsibility requirements;. •  spacing of wells;. •  air emissions;. •  property unitization and pooling;. •  habitat and endangered species protection, reclamation and remediation;. •  containment and disposal of hazardous substances, oil field waste and other waste materials;. •  drilling permits;. •  use of saltwater injection wells, which affects the disposal of saltwater from our wells;. •  safety precautions;. •  prevention of oil spills;. 28. •  operational reporting; and. •  taxation and royalties.. Compliance with these laws and regulations is a significant cost of doing business. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil, and criminal penalties; the imposition of investigatory and remedial liabilities; the issuance of injunctions that may restrict, inhibit or prohibit our operations; and claims of damages to property or persons.. Some environmental laws and regulations impose strict liability, which means that in some situations we could be exposed to liability for clean-up costs and other damages as a result of conduct that was lawful at the time it occurred or for the conduct of prior operators of properties we acquired or of other third parties. Similarly, some environmental laws and regulations impose joint and several liability, meaning that we could be held responsible for more than our share of a particular reclamation or other obligation, and potentially the entire obligation, where other parties were involved in the activity giving rise to the liability. In addition, we may be required to make large and unanticipated capital expenditures to comply with applicable laws and regulations, for example by installing and maintaining pollution control devices. Similarly, our actual plugging and abandonment obligations may be more than our estimates. It is not possible for us to estimate reliably the amount and timing of all future expenditures related to environmental matters, but we estimate that they will be material. Environmental risks are generally not fully insurable.. Federal, state and local legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays.. We engage third parties to provide hydraulic fracturing or other well stimulation services to us in connection with many of the wells for which we are the operator. Federal, state and local governments have been adopting or considering restrictions on or prohibitions of fracturing in areas where we currently conduct operations, or in the future plan to conduct operations. Consequently, we could be subject to additional levels of regulation, operational delays or increased operating costs and could have additional regulatory burdens imposed upon us that could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing and increase our costs of compliance and doing business.. From time to time, for example, legislation has been proposed in Congress to amend the federal Safe Drinking Water Act (\"SDWA\") to require federal permitting of hydraulic fracturing and the disclosure of chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. Further, the EPA completed a study finding that hydraulic fracturing could potentially harm drinking water resources under adverse circumstances such as injection directly into groundwater or into production wells lacking mechanical integrity. Other governmental reviews have also been recently conducted or are under way that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing. For example, a federal Bureau of Land Management (the \"BLM\") rulemaking for hydraulic fracturing practices on federal and Indian lands resulted in a March 2015 final rule that requires public disclosure of chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing, confirmation that the wells used in fracturing operations meet proper construction standards and development of plans for managing related flowback water. In June 2016, a federal district court judge in Wyoming struck down the final rule, finding that the BLM lacked congressional authority to promulgate the rule. The BLM appealed that ruling. However, in July 2017, the BLM initiated a rulemaking to rescind the final rule and reinstate the regulations that existed immediately before the published effective date of the rule. In light of the BLM's proposed rulemaking, in September 2017, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit dismissed the appeal and remanded with directions to vacate the lower court's opinion, leaving the final rule in place. On December 29, 2017, the BLM published a final rule rescinding the March 2015 final rule. Further, legislation to amend the SDWA to repeal the exemption for hydraulic fracturing (except when diesel fuels are used) from the definition of \"underground injection\" and require federal permitting and regulatory control of hydraulic fracturing, as well as legislative proposals to require disclosure of the chemical constituents of the fluids used in the fracturing process, have been proposed in recent sessions of Congress. Several states and local jurisdictions in which we operate also have adopted or are considering adopting regulations that could restrict or prohibit hydraulic fracturing in certain circumstances, impose more stringent operating standards and/or require the disclosure of the composition of hydraulic fracturing fluids.. More recently, federal and state governments have begun investigating whether the disposal of produced water into underground injection wells has caused increased seismic activity in certain areas. For example, in December 2016, the EPA released its final report regarding the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources, concluding that \"water cycle\" activities associated with hydraulic fracturing may impact drinking water resources under certain circumstances such as water withdrawals for fracturing in times or areas of low water availability, surface spills during the management of fracturing fluids, chemicals or produced water, injection of fracturing fluids into wells with inadequate mechanical integrity, injection of fracturing fluids directly into groundwater resources, discharge of inadequately treated fracturing wastewater to surface waters, and disposal or storage of fracturing wastewater in unlined pits. The results of these studies could lead federal and state governments and agencies to develop and implement additional regulations.. 29. The proliferation of regulations may limit our ability to operate. If the use of hydraulic fracturing is limited, prohibited or subjected to further regulation, these requirements could delay or effectively prevent the extraction of oil and natural gas from formations which would not be economically viable without the use of hydraulic fracturing. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Extreme weather conditions could adversely affect our ability to conduct drilling and production activities in the areas where we operate.. Our exploration, exploitation and development activities and equipment could be adversely affected by extreme weather conditions, such as hurricanes, which may cause a loss of production from temporary cessation of activity or lost or damaged facilities and equipment. Such extreme weather conditions could also impact access to our drilling and production facilities for routine operations, maintenance and repairs and the availability of and our access to, necessary third-party services, such as gathering, processing, compression and transportation services. These constraints and the resulting shortages or high costs could delay or temporarily halt our operations and materially increase our operation and capital costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of \"greenhouse gases\" could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids we produce.. Studies over recent years have indicated that emissions of certain gases may be contributing to warming of the Earth's atmosphere. In response, increasingly governments have been adopting domestic and international climate change regulations that require reporting and reductions of the emission of such greenhouse gases. Methane, a primary component of natural gas, and carbon dioxide, a byproduct of burning oil, natural gas and refined petroleum products, are considered greenhouse gases. Internationally, the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the Kyoto Protocol and the Paris Agreement address greenhouse gas emissions, and international negotiations over climate change and greenhouse gases are continuing. Meanwhile, several countries, including those comprising the European Union, have established greenhouse gas regulatory systems.. In the United States, many states, either individually or through multi-state regional initiatives, have begun implementing legal measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, primarily through emission inventories, emission targets, greenhouse gas cap and trade programs or incentives for renewable energy generation, while others have considered adopting such greenhouse gas programs.. At the federal level, the Obama Administration pledged for the Paris Agreement to meet an economy-wide target in 2025 of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 26-28% below the 2005 level. To help achieve these reductions, federal agencies have been addressing climate change through a variety of administrative actions. The EPA thus issued greenhouse gas monitoring and reporting regulations that cover oil and natural gas facilities, among other industries. Beyond measuring and reporting, the EPA issued an \"Endangerment Finding\" under Section 202(a) of the Clean Air Act, concluding certain greenhouse gas pollution threatens the public health and welfare of current and future generations. The finding served as the first step to issuing regulations that require permits for and reductions in greenhouse gas emissions for certain facilities. In March 2014, moreover, then President Obama released a Strategy to Reduce Methane Emissions that included consideration of both voluntary programs and targeted regulations for the oil and natural gas sector. Consistent with that strategy, the EPA issued final rules in 2016 for new and modified oil and natural gas production sources (including hydraulically fractured oil wells, natural gas well sites, natural gas processing plants, natural gas gathering and boosting stations and natural gas transmission sources) to reduce emissions of methane as well as volatile organic compound and toxic pollutants. However, in May 2017 the EPA temporarily stayed implementing portions of the new rule and in June 2017 proposed a two year stay of new requirements, and more recently the head of the EPA has announced the current administration's intent to roll back or repeal most, if not all, of the Obama administration's regulations restricting future greenhouse gas emissions. In June 2017, President Trump announced that the United States intends to withdraw from the Paris Agreement and to seek negotiations either to reenter the Paris Agreement on different terms or a separate agreement. In August 2017, the U.S. Department of State officially informed the United Nations of the intent of the United States to withdraw from the Paris Agreement. The Paris Agreement provides for a four-year exit process beginning when it took effect in November 2016, which would result in an effective exit date of November 2020. The United States' adherence to the exit process and/or the terms on which the United States may re-enter the Paris Agreement or a separately negotiated agreement are unclear at this time.. In the courts, several decisions have been issued that may increase the risk of claims being filed by governments and private parties against companies that have significant greenhouse gas emissions. Such cases may seek to challenge air emissions permits that greenhouse gas emitters apply for and seek to force emitters to reduce their emissions or seek damages for alleged climate change impacts to the environment, people, and property.. The direction of future U.S. climate change regulation is difficult to predict given the current uncertainties surrounding the policies of the Trump Administration. The EPA may or may not continue developing regulations to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the oil and natural gas industry. Even if federal efforts in this area slow, states may continue pursuing climate regulations. Any laws or regulations that may be adopted to restrict or reduce emissions of greenhouse gases could require us to incur additional operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions controls, to obtain emission allowances or to pay emission taxes, and reduce demand for our oil and natural gas.. 30. Our oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids are sold in a limited number of geographic markets so an oversupply in any of those areas could have a material negative effect on the price we receive.. Our oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids is sold in a limited number of geographic markets which each have a fixed amount of storage and processing capacity. As a result, if such markets become oversupplied with oil, natural gas and/or natural gas liquids, it could have a material negative effect on the prices we receive for our products and therefore an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. There is a risk that refining capacity in the U.S. Gulf Coast may be insufficient to refine all of the light sweet crude oil being produced in the United States. If light sweet crude oil production remains at current levels or continues to increase, demand for our light crude oil production could result in widening price discounts to the world crude prices and potential shut-in of production due to a lack of sufficient markets despite the lift on prior restrictions on the exporting of oil and natural gas.. We may incur more taxes and certain of our projects may become uneconomic if certain federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and development are eliminated as a result of future legislation.. In past years, legislation has been proposed that would, if enacted into law, make significant changes to U.S. tax laws, including to certain key U.S. federal income tax provisions currently available to oil and natural gas exploration, development and production companies. Such legislative changes have included, but not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and natural gas properties, (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs, (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain domestic production activities, and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the \"TCJA\") did not directly affect deductions currently available to the oil and natural gas industry but any future changes in U.S. federal income tax laws could eliminate or postpone certain tax deductions that currently are available with respect to oil and natural gas development, or increase costs, and any such changes could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. The recently passed comprehensive tax reform bill could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law the TCJA that significantly changes the federal income taxation of business entities. The TCJA, among other things, reduces the corporate income tax rate to 21%, partially limits the deductibility of business interest expense and net operating losses, imposes a one-time tax on unrepatriated earnings from certain foreign subsidiaries, taxes offshore earnings at reduced rates regardless of whether they are repatriated and allows the immediate deduction of certain capital expenditures instead of deductions for depreciation expense over time. We are still evaluating the overall impact of the TCJA to us. Notwithstanding the reduction in the corporate income tax rate, we cannot yet conclude that the overall impact of the TCJA to us is positive.. Our operations are substantially dependent on the availability, use and disposal of water. New legislation and regulatory initiatives or restrictions relating to water disposal wells could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, operating results and prospects.. Water is an essential component of our drilling and hydraulic fracturing processes. If we are unable to obtain water to use in our operations from local sources, we may be unable to economically produce oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Wastewaters from our operations typically are disposed of via underground injection. Some studies have linked earthquakes in certain areas to underground injection, which is leading to greater public scrutiny of disposal wells. Any new environmental initiatives or regulations that restrict injection of fluids, including, but not limited to, produced water, drilling fluids and other wastes associated with the exploration, development or production of oil and gas, or that limit the withdrawal, storage or use of surface water or ground water necessary for hydraulic fracturing of our wells, could increase our operating costs and cause delays, interruptions or cessation of our operations, the extent of which cannot be predicted, and all of which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Any change to government regulation or administrative practices may have a negative impact on our ability to operate and our profitability.. Oil and natural gas operations are subject to substantial regulation under federal, state and local laws relating to the exploration for, and the development, upgrading, marketing, pricing, taxation, and transportation of, oil and natural gas and related products and other associated matters. Amendments to current laws and regulations governing operations and activities of oil and natural gas exploration and development operations could have a material adverse impact on our business. In addition, there can be no assurance that income tax laws, royalty regulations and government programs related to our oil and natural gas properties and the oil and natural gas industry generally will not be changed in a manner which may adversely affect our progress or cause delays.. 31. Permits, leases, licenses, and approvals are required from a variety of regulatory authorities at various stages of exploration and development. There can be no assurance that the various government permits, leases, licenses and approvals sought will be granted in respect of our activities or, if granted, will not be cancelled or will be renewed upon expiration. There is no assurance that such permits, leases, licenses, and approvals will not contain terms and provisions which may adversely affect our exploration and development activities.. The marketability of our production is dependent upon gathering systems, transportation facilities and processing facilities that we do not own or control. If these facilities or systems are unavailable, our oil and natural gas production can be interrupted and our revenues reduced.. The marketability of our oil and natural gas production is dependent upon the availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines, natural gas gathering systems, transportation and processing facilities owned by third parties. In general, we will not control these facilities, and our access to them may be limited or denied due to circumstances beyond our control. A significant disruption in the availability of these facilities could adversely impact our ability to deliver to market the hydrocarbons we produce and thereby cause a significant interruption in our operations. In some cases, our ability to deliver to market our hydrocarbons is dependent upon coordination among third parties that own transportation and processing facilities we use, and any inability or unwillingness of those parties to coordinate efficiently could also interrupt our operations. The lack of availability or the lack of capacity on these systems and facilities could result in the curtailment of production or the delay or discontinuance of drilling plans. This is more likely in areas with recent increased production, such as our Permian Basin area where we have significant development activities. These are risks for which we generally will not maintain insurance.. We operate or participate in oil and natural gas leases with third parties who may not be able to fulfill their commitments to our projects.. In some cases, we operate but own less than 100% of the working interest in the oil and natural gas leases on which we conduct operations, and other parties own the remaining portion of the working interest. Financial risks are inherent in any operation where the cost of drilling, equipping, completing and operating wells is shared by more than one person. We could be held liable for joint activity obligations of other working interest owners, such as nonpayment of costs and liabilities arising from the actions of other working interest owners. In addition, declines in oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids prices may increase the likelihood that some of these working interest owners, particularly those that are smaller and less established, are not able to fulfill their joint activity obligations. A partner may be unable or unwilling to pay its share of project costs, and, in some cases, a partner may declare bankruptcy. In the event any of our project partners do not pay their share of such costs, we would likely have to pay those costs, and we may be unsuccessful in any efforts to recover these costs from our partners, which could materially adversely affect our financial position.. Use of debt financing may adversely affect our strategy.. We may use debt to fund a portion of our future acquisition, development and/or operating activities. Any temporary or sustained inability to service or repay such debt will likely have a material adverse effect on our ability to access financing markets and pursue our operating strategies, as well as impair our ability to respond to adverse economic changes in oil and natural gas markets and the economy in general.. Non-operated properties are controlled by third parties that may not allow us to proceed with our planned capital expenditures. Activities on our operated properties could also be limited or subject to penalties.. We currently are not the operator of some of our existing properties and, therefore, may not be able to influence production operations or further development activities. Joint ownership is customary in the oil and natural gas industry and is generally conducted under the terms of a joint operating agreement (\"JOA\"), where one of the working interest owners is designated as the \"operator\" of the property. For non-operated properties, subject to the specific terms and conditions of the applicable JOA, if we disagree with the decision of a majority of working interest owners, we may be required, among other things, to postpone proposed activity or decline to participate in drilling and completing of wells. If we decline to participate, we might be forced to relinquish our interest through \"in-or-out\" elections or may be subject to certain non-consent penalties, as provided in a JOA. In-or-out elections may require a joint owner to participate or forever relinquish its position, typically only in specific wells or drilling units, although such relinquished positions could be of a larger scope. Non-consent penalties typically allow participating working interest owners to recover from the proceeds of production, if any, an amount equal to 200% to 500% of the non-participating working interest owner's share of the cost of such operations. Further, even for properties operated by us, there may be instances where decisions related to drilling, completion and operating cannot be made in our sole discretion. In such instances, we could be limited in our development operations and subject to penalties as specified above if we choose not to participate in operations proposed by a majority of working interest owners.. 32. Because we cannot control activities on properties we do not operate, we cannot directly control the timing of exploration and development projects. If we are unable to fund required capital expenditures with respect to non-operated properties, our interests in those properties may be reduced or forfeited.. Our ability to exercise influence over operations and costs for the properties we do not operate is limited. Our dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these projects and our limited ability to influence operations and associated costs could prevent the realization of our targeted returns on capital with respect to acquisition, exploration or development activities. The success and timing of exploration, acquisition and development activities on properties operated by others depend upon a number of factors that may be outside our control, including but not limited to:. •  the timing and amount of capital expenditures;. •  the operator's expertise and financial resources;. •  the approval of other participants in drilling wells; and. •  the selection of technology.. Where we are not the majority owner or operator of a particular oil and natural gas project, we may have no control over the timing or amount of capital expenditures associated with the project. If we are not willing or able to fund required capital expenditures relating to a project when required by the majority owner(s) or operator, our interests in the project may be reduced or forfeited. Also, we could be responsible for plugging and abandonment costs, as well as other liabilities in excess of our proportionate interest in the property.. A cyber incident could result in information theft, data corruption, operational disruption and/or financial loss.. The oil and natural gas industry has become increasingly dependent on digital technologies to conduct day-to-day operations including certain exploration, development and production activities. For example, software programs are used to interpret seismic data, manage drilling rigs, production equipment and gathering and transportation systems, as well as conduct reservoir modeling and reserve estimation for compliance reporting.. We are dependent on digital technologies including information systems and related infrastructure, to process and record financial and operating data, communicate with our employees, business partners, and stockholders, analyze seismic and drilling information, estimate quantities of oil and natural gas reserves as well as other activities related to our business. Our business partners, including vendors, service providers, purchasers of our production and financial institutions are also dependent on digital technology. The technologies needed to conduct oil and natural gas exploration, development and production activities make certain information the target of theft or misappropriation.. As dependence on digital technologies has increased, cyber incidents, including deliberate attacks or unintentional events, have also increased. A cyber-attack could include gaining unauthorized access to digital systems for the purposes of misappropriating assets or sensitive information, corrupting data, causing operational disruption, or result in denial-of-service on websites.. Our technologies, systems, networks, and those of our business partners may become the target of cyber-attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of proprietary and other information, or other disruption of our business operations. In addition, certain cyber incidents, such as surveillance, may remain undetected for an extended period of time. A cyber incident involving our information systems and related infrastructure, or that of our business partners, could disrupt our business plans and negatively impact our operations.. We are subject to litigation relating to Bold and the Bold Transaction, and we may be subject to additional litigation, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. On June 7, 2017, litigation captioned Olenik v. Lodzinksi et al. was filed in the Delaware Court of Chancery seeking class action status, claiming a breach of fiduciary duty by our Board and others and challenging the fairness of the Bold Transaction. The plaintiff has requested an award of damages in an unspecified amount. The Company and the other defendants believe the suit is without merit and have mounted a vigorous defense. In addition, we may be subject to additional litigation relating to Bold or the Bold Transaction in the future. We cannot predict the outcome of the ongoing litigation or any litigation that may arise in the future, nor can we predict the amount of time and expense that will be required to resolve the ongoing litigation or any other litigation. While we will evaluate and defend against the ongoing litigation and any other litigation vigorously, the costs of the defense, including legal fees of directors under indemnification obligations, and other effects of such litigation could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. On August 18, 2017, litigation captioned Trinity Royal Partners, LP v. Bold Energy III LLC, et al. was filed with the 142nd Judicial District of the District Court in Midland County, Texas, asserting breach of contract and indemnity claims for alleged damages from loss of property relating to two oil and natural gas wells in which Bold was the operator. Trinity Royalty Partners,. 33. LP (\"Trinity\") alleges that Bold is required to indemnify Trinity under the terms of an Assignment and a Participation and Joint Development Agreement between Bold and Trinity. Damages are alleged to include costs incurred in attempting to repair and restore an oil and natural gas well and for the loss of future reserves attributable to both wells. Trinity is seeking approximately $7.2 million in damages and attorneys' fees. Earthstone and Bold believe the suit is without any merit and Bold intends to mount a vigorous defense.. Hurricanes, earthquakes and other natural disasters could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Some of our properties are located in areas that are susceptible to hurricanes, earthquakes and other natural disasters. These natural disasters could potentially damage our assets and disrupt our production of oil and natural gas. In the third quarter of 2017, Hurricane Harvey caused disruptions in our operations and, as of December 31, 2017, we had incurred $0.2 million in losses. For more information regarding the impact of Hurricane Harvey on operating results, see Item 7 \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\" Natural disasters can similarly affect our facilities as well. In either case, losses could exceed our insurance coverage and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, perhaps materially.. The loss or unavailability of any of our executive officers or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We depend greatly on the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees to manage our operations. The loss or unavailability of any of our executive officers or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Risks Related to the Ownership of our Class A Common Stock. We are a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the NYSE rules and, as a result, qualify for and rely on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements.. EnCap controls a majority of the combined voting power of all classes of our outstanding voting stock. As a result, we are a controlled company within the meaning of the NYSE corporate governance standards. Under the NYSE rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by another person or group of persons acting together is a controlled company and may elect not to comply with certain NYSE corporate governance requirements, including the requirements that:. •  a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors;. •  the nominating and governance committee be composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities; and. •  the compensation committee be composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities.. These requirements will not apply to us as long as we remain a controlled company. Accordingly, you may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE.. Our principal stockholders hold a substantial majority of the voting power of our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock.. Holders of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock will vote together as a single class on all matters presented to our stockholders for their vote or approval, except as otherwise required by applicable law or our Third Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation. EnCap, through its ownership of Bold Holdings, may be deemed to beneficially own approximately 63% of our voting interests. In addition, certain affiliates controlled by EnCap directly own approximately 8% of our Class A Common Stock. As a significant stockholder, EnCap and certain of its affiliates could limit the ability of our other stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in the best interests of our Company or delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in our management.. So long as EnCap and certain of its affiliates continue to control a significant amount of our outstanding voting securities, they will continue to be able to have significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, regardless of whether or not other stockholders believe that a potential transaction is in their own best interests. Also, in any of these matters, the interests of our management team may differ or conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. In addition, EnCap and its affiliates may, from time to time, acquire interests in businesses that directly or indirectly compete with our business, as well as businesses that are significant existing or potential acquisition candidates or industry partners. EnCap and its affiliates may acquire or seek to acquire assets that we seek to acquire and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us or may be more expensive for us to pursue. Moreover, this concentration of stock ownership may also adversely affect the trading price of our Class A Common Stock to the extent investors perceive a disadvantage in owning stock of a company with a controlling stockholder.. 34. Future sales of our Class A Common Stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur, could reduce our stock price, and any additional capital raised by us through the sale of equity may dilute your ownership in us.. We may sell additional shares of Class A Common Stock or securities convertible into shares of our Class A Common Stock in subsequent offerings. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our Class A Common Stock or securities convertible into Class A Common Stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our Class A Common Stock will have on the market price of our Class A Common Stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our Class A Common Stock (including shares issued in connection with an acquisition), or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices of our Class A Common Stock.. Bold Holdings and its permitted transferees have the right to exchange their EEH Units and shares of Class B Common Stock for our Class A Common Stock pursuant to the terms of the EEH LLC Agreement.. As of March 1, 2018, there were approximately 35.9 million shares of our Class A Common Stock that are issuable upon redemption or exchange of EEH Units and shares of Class B Common Stock that are held by Bold Holdings or its permitted transferees. Pursuant to the EEH LLC Agreement, subject to certain restrictions therein, holders of EEH Units and our Class B Common Stock are entitled to exchange such EEH Units and shares of Class B Common Stock for shares of our Class A Common Stock at any time. We also entered into a registration rights agreement pursuant to which the shares of Class A Common Stock which may be issued upon redemption or exchange of EEH Units and shares of Class B Common Stock, subject to certain limitations set forth therein, have been registered for subsequent offers and sales by Bold Holdings and its permitted transferees.. We have no plans to pay dividends on our Class A Common Stock. Stockholders may not receive funds without selling their shares.. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our Class A Common Stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain future earnings, if any, to finance the expansion of our business. Our future dividend policy is within the discretion of our Board and will depend upon various factors, including our business, financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, and investment opportunities. In addition, the EEH Credit Agreement does not allow EEH to make any significant payments to us, which makes it highly unlikely that we would be in a position to pay cash dividends on our Class A Common Stock.. Our Board can, without stockholder approval, cause preferred stock to be issued on terms that could adversely affect our common stockholders.. Under our Third Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, our Board is authorized to cause the Company to issue up to 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock, of which none are issued and outstanding as of the date of this report. Also, our Board, without stockholder approval, may determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges, and restrictions, including voting rights, of those shares. If the Board causes shares of preferred stock to be issued, the rights of the holders of our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock would likely be subordinate to those of preferred holders and therefore could be adversely affected. The Board's ability to determine the terms of preferred stock and to cause its issuance, while providing desirable flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock or otherwise seek to acquire us. Shares of preferred stock issued by us could include voting rights, or even super voting rights, which could shift the ability to control the Company to the holders of the preferred stock. Preferred stock could also have conversion rights into shares of Class A Common Stock at a discount to the market price of the Class A Common Stock which could negatively affect the market for our Class A Common Stock. In addition, preferred stock could have preference in the event of liquidation of the Company, which means that the holders of preferred stock would be entitled to receive the net assets of the Company distributed in liquidation before the Class A common stockholders receive any distribution of the liquidated assets. We have no current plans to issue any shares of preferred stock.. The price of our Class A Common Stock may fluctuate significantly, which could negatively affect us and holders of our Class A Common Stock.. The trading price of our Class A Common Stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. For instance, if our financial results are below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, the market price of our Class A Common Stock could decrease, perhaps significantly. Other factors that may affect the market price of our Class A Common Stock include:. •  changes in oil and natural gas prices;. •  actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations;. •  our liquidity;. •  sales of Class A Common Stock by our stockholders;. 35. •  changes in our cash flow from operations or earnings estimates;. •  publication of research reports about us or the oil and natural gas exploration and production industry generally;. •  competition for, among other things, capital, acquisition of reserves, undeveloped land, and skilled personnel;. •  increases in market interest rates that may increase our cost of capital;. •  changes in applicable laws or regulations, court rulings, and enforcement and legal actions;. •  changes in market valuations of similar companies;. •  adverse market reaction to any indebtedness we may incur in the future;. •  additions or departures of key management personnel;. •  actions by our stockholders;. •  commencement of or involvement in litigation;. •  news reports relating to trends, concerns, technological or competitive developments, regulatory changes, and other related issues in our industry;. •  speculation in the press or investment community regarding our business;. •  political conditions in oil and natural gas producing regions of the world;. •  general market and economic conditions; and. •  domestic and international economic, legal, and regulatory factors unrelated to our performance.. In addition, U.S. securities markets have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations often have been unrelated to the operating performance of companies in these markets. Market fluctuations and broad market, economic, and industry factors may negatively affect the price of our Class A Common Stock, regardless of our operating performance. Any volatility or a significant decrease in the market price of our Class A Common Stock could also negatively affect our ability to make acquisitions using Class A Common Stock. Further, if we were to be the object of securities class action litigation as a result of volatility in our Class A Common Stock price or for other reasons, it could result in substantial costs and diversion of our management's attention and resources, which could negatively affect our financial results.. We are subject to certain requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we fail to comply with the requirements of Section 404 or if we or our auditors identify and report material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting, our investors may lose confidence in our reported information and our stock price may be negatively affected.. As of December 31, 2017, we are required to comply with certain provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the \"Sarbanes-Oxley Act\"). Section 404 requires that we document and test our internal control over financial reporting and issue our management's assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. This section also requires that our independent registered public accounting firm issue an attestation report on such internal control. If we fail to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or if we or our auditors identify and report material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, the accuracy and timeliness of the filing of our annual and quarterly reports may be materially adversely affected and could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our Class A Common Stock. In addition, a material weakness in the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting could result in an increased chance of fraud and the loss of customers, reduce our ability to obtain financing and require additional expenditures to comply with these requirements, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Anti-takeover provisions could make a third-party acquisition difficult.. Our Third Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation provides for a classified board of directors, with each member serving a three-year term. Provisions in our Third Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the approval of our Board. In addition, the Delaware corporate statutes also contain certain provisions that could make an acquisition by a third party more difficult.. 36. Our stockholders may act by unilateral written consent.. Under our Third Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, any action required to be taken at any annual or special meeting of our stockholders, or any action which may be taken at any annual or special meeting of such stockholders, may be taken without a meeting, without prior notice and without a vote, if a consent in writing, setting forth the action so taken, is signed by the holders of outstanding stock having not less than the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to authorize or take such action at a meeting at which all shares entitled to vote thereon were present and voted. Thus, consents of this type can be effected without the participation or input of minority stockholders."
