[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. Kodak operates in rapidly changing economic and technological environments which present numerous risks, many of which are driven by factors it cannot control or predict. Certain factors may have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, and results of operations. You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below in addition to other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) section and the consolidated financial statements and related notes. The following discussion of \"risk factors\" identifies Kodak's assessment of the most significant factors which may adversely affect its business, operations, financial position or future financial performance.  Additional risks and uncertainties Kodak is unaware of, or currently believes are not material, may also become important factors which could adversely affect its business, operations, financial position or future financial performance.. Risks Related to Kodak's Business. If Kodak is not able to successfully implement its business plans, or experiences implementation delays in cost structure reduction, Kodak's consolidated results of operations, financial position and liquidity could be negatively affected.. Kodak's business plans are subject to a number of assumptions, projections, and analysis. If these assumptions prove to be incorrect, Kodak may be unsuccessful in executing its business plans or achieving the projected results, which could adversely impact its financial results and liquidity. In addition, Kodak continues to rationalize its workforce and streamline operations to a leaner and more focused organization aligned with its business initiatives. There are no assurances such measures will prove to be successful or the cost savings or other results it achieves through these plans will be consistent with its expectations. As a result, its results of operations, financial position and liquidity could be negatively impacted. If restructuring plans are not effectively managed, it may experience lost customer sales, product delays, additional costs and other unanticipated effects, causing harm to its business and customer relationships. Finally, the timing and implementation of these plans require compliance with numerous laws and regulations, including local labor laws, and the failure to comply with such requirements may result in damages, fines and penalties which could adversely affect Kodak's business.. If Kodak is unable to successfully develop, fund and commercialize products in certain businesses upon which it is focused, its financial performance could be adversely affected.. Kodak has focused its investments on imaging and printing for business, specifically, commercial inkjet, packaging, advanced materials and 3D printing, and software and services.  Each of these businesses requires additional investment and may not be successful. The introduction of successful innovative products at market competitive prices and the achievement of scale are necessary for it to grow these businesses, improve margins and achieve its financial objectives. Additionally, its strategy is based on a number of factors and assumptions, some of which are not within its control, such as the actions of third parties. There can be no assurance that it will be able to successfully execute all or any elements of its strategy, or that its ability to successfully execute its strategy will be unaffected by external factors. If it is unsuccessful in growing Kodak's investment businesses as planned, or perceiving the needs of its target customers, its financial performance could be adversely affected.. 8. Kodak's inability to effectively complete and manage strategic transactions could adversely impact its business performance, including its financial results.. As part of Kodak's strategy, it may be engaged in discussions with third parties regarding possible divestitures, asset sales, spin-offs, investments, acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures, and outsourcing transactions and may enter into agreements relating to such transactions in order to further its business objectives.  In order to successfully pursue its strategic transaction strategy, it must identify suitable buyers, sellers and partners and successfully complete transactions, some of which may be large and complex, and manage post-closing issues such as the elimination of any remaining post-sale costs related to divested businesses. Transaction risk can be more pronounced for larger and more complicated transactions or when multiple transactions are pursued simultaneously.  If Kodak fails to identify and successfully complete transactions that further its strategic objectives, it may be required to expend resources to develop products and technology internally, it may be at a competitive disadvantage or it may be adversely affected by negative market perceptions. Any of these factors could have an adverse effect on its revenue, gross margins and profitability. In addition, unpredictability surrounding the timing of such transactions could adversely affect its financial results.. Kodak may pursue acquisitions or combinations which could fail or present unanticipated problems for its business in the future, which would adversely affect its ability to realize the anticipated benefits of those transactions or increase the price it would be required to pay.. Kodak may seek to enter into transactions which may include acquiring or combining with other businesses. It may not be able to identify suitable acquisition or combination opportunities or finance and complete any particular acquisition or combination successfully. Furthermore, acquisitions and combinations involve a number of risks and challenges, including:. •  the ability to obtain required regulatory and other approvals;     •  the need to integrate acquired or combined operations with its business;     •  potential loss of key employees;     •  difficulty in evaluating operating costs, infrastructure requirements, environmental and other liabilities and other factors beyond its control;     •  potential lack of operating experience in new business or geographic areas;     •  an increase in its expenses and working capital requirements;     •  management's attention may be temporarily diverted; and     •  the possibility it may be required to issue a substantial amount of additional equity or debt securities or assume additional debt in connection with any such transactions.. Any of these factors could adversely affect its ability to achieve anticipated levels of cash flows or realize synergies or other anticipated benefits from a strategic transaction. Furthermore, the market for transactions is highly competitive, which may adversely affect its ability to find transactions which fit its strategic objectives or increase the price it would be required to pay (which could decrease the benefit of the transaction or hinder its desire or ability to consummate the transaction). Strategic transactions may occur at any time and may be significant in size relative to its assets and operations.. The ability to generate positive operating cash flows will be necessary for Kodak to continue to operate its business.. Kodak has not generated positive operating cash flows over the past four years.  The Print Systems segment is its largest segment and has had declining revenues and segment earnings which are expected to continue to decline.  Kodak's stable and growth businesses may not grow or continue to generate the same or enough cash flow to offset businesses with declining cash flows.  Kodak may be unable to generate positive cash flow from operations in the future, which would have a material adverse effect on its liquidity and financial position.. Continued investment, capital needs, restructuring payments, dividends and servicing the Company's debt require a significant amount of cash and it may not be able to generate sufficient cash to fund these activities, which could adversely affect its business, operating results and financial condition.. Kodak's business may not generate cash flow in an amount sufficient to enable it to pay the principal or mandatory redemption price of, or interest and dividends on its indebtedness and Series A Preferred Stock, or to fund Kodak's other liquidity needs, including working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, restructuring actions and other general corporate requirements.. Kodak's ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, litigation, regulatory and other factors beyond its control. There are no assurances:. •  Kodak's businesses will generate sufficient cash flow from operations;     •  Kodak will be able to generate expected levels of operational EBITDA;     •  Kodak will be able to repatriate or move cash to locations where and when it is needed;     •  the Company will meet all the conditions associated with making borrowings or issuing letters of credit under the ABL Credit Agreement;     •  Kodak will realize cost savings, earnings growth and operating improvements resulting from the execution of its business and restructuring plan;     •  Kodak will not have to expend cash defending lawsuits regardless of the merits of any claims raised; or. 9. •  Future sources of funding will be available in amounts sufficient to enable funding of its liquidity needs.. If Kodak cannot fund its liquidity needs, it will have to take actions, such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, and investments and alliances; selling additional assets; restructuring or refinancing the Company's debt; or seeking additional equity capital. Such actions could increase the Company's debt, negatively impact customer confidence in its ability to provide products and services, reduce its ability to raise additional capital and delay sustained profitability. There are no assurances any of these actions could, if necessary, be taken on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or they would satisfy Kodak's liquidity needs.  In addition, if it were to incur additional debt, the risks associated with the Company's substantial leverage, including the risk it will be unable to service its debt, generate cash flow sufficient to fund its liquidity needs, or maintain compliance with the covenants in the Credit Agreements, could significantly increase.. Due to the nature of the products it sells and Kodak's worldwide distribution, it is subject to changes in currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity costs which may adversely impact its results of operations and financial position.. As a result of Kodak's global operating and financing activities, it is exposed to changes in currency exchange rates and interest rates, which may adversely affect its results of operations and financial position.  Exchange rates and interest rates in markets in which it does business tend to be volatile and, at times, its sales and profitability can be negatively impacted across all its segments depending upon the value of the U.S. dollar and other major currencies such as the euro, the Japanese yen, the British pound and the Chinese yuan. In addition, Kodak's products contain aluminum, silver, petroleum based or other commodity based raw materials, the prices of which have been, and may continue to be, volatile. If the global economic situation remains uncertain or worsens, there could be further volatility in changes in currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices, which could have negative effects on its revenue and earnings.. Weakness or worsening of global economic conditions could adversely affect Kodak's financial performance and liquidity.. The global economic environment may adversely affect sales of Kodak's products, profitability and liquidity. Global financial markets have been experiencing volatility. Economic conditions could accelerate any decline in demand for products, which could also place pressure on its results of operations and liquidity. There is no guarantee that anticipated economic growth levels in markets which have experienced some economic strength will continue in the future, or Kodak will succeed in expanding sales in these markets. In addition, accounts receivable and past due accounts could increase due to a decline in its customers' ability to pay as a result of an economic downturn, and its liquidity, including its ability to use credit lines, could be negatively impacted by failures of financial instrument counterparties, including banks and other financial institutions. If global economic weakness and tightness in the credit markets exist, worsen or are attenuated, Kodak's profitability and related cash generation capability could be adversely affected and, therefore, affect its ability to meet its anticipated cash needs, impair its liquidity or increase its costs of borrowing.. If Kodak is unable to successfully develop or commercialize new products, its business, financial position and operating results may suffer.. Kodak generally sells its products in industries which are characterized by rapid technological changes, frequent new product and service introductions and changing industry standards. Without the timely introduction of new products, services and enhancements, its products and services will become technologically obsolete over time, in which case its revenue and operating results would suffer. Therefore, its future results of operations will depend to a significant extent upon its ability to successfully commercialize new products in a timely manner. The success of its new products and services will depend on several factors, including its ability to:. •  identify customer needs;     •  innovate and develop new technologies, services, and applications;     •  commercialize new technologies in a timely manner;     •  manufacture and deliver its products in sufficient volumes and on time;     •  differentiate its offerings from its competitors' offerings;     •  price its products and services competitively;     •  anticipate its competitors' development of new products, services or technological innovations;     •  work successfully alongside its partners; and     •  control product quality in its manufacturing processes.. 10. As a result of these and other factors, products currently in development by Kodak (for example, UltraStream technology, small particle technology and Ultra NX) may or may not be successfully commercialized in a timely manner, or at all. If any of its key products cannot be successfully or timely commercialized, its operating results could be adversely affected. Moreover, it cannot guarantee any investment made in developing products will be recouped, even if it is successful in commercializing those products, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial position and operating results.. If Kodak's commercialization and manufacturing processes fail to prevent issues with product reliability, yield and quality, its product launch plans may be delayed, its financial results may be adversely impacted, and its reputation may be harmed.. In developing, commercializing and manufacturing Kodak's products and services it must adequately address reliability and prevent yield and other quality issues, including defects in its engineering, design and manufacturing processes, as well as defects in third-party components included in its products. Because Kodak's products are sophisticated and complicated to develop and commercialize with rapid advances in technologies, the occurrence of defects may increase, particularly with the introduction of new product lines. Unanticipated issues with product performance may delay product launch plans which could result in additional expenses, lost revenue and earnings. Although it has established internal procedures to minimize risks which may arise from product quality issues, there can be no assurance it will be able to eliminate or mitigate occurrences of these issues and associated liabilities. Product reliability, yield and quality issues can impair its relationships with new or existing customers and adversely affect its brand image; product quality issues can result in recalls, warranty, or other service obligations and litigation, and its reputation as a producer of high quality products could suffer, which could adversely affect its business as well as its financial results.. If the reputation of Kodak or its brand erodes significantly, it could have a material impact on its financial results.. Kodak's reputation, and the reputation of its brand, form the foundation of its relationships with key stakeholders and other constituencies, including customers, suppliers and consumers. The quality and safety of Kodak's products are critical to its business.  Kodak's products have worldwide recognition, and its financial success is directly dependent on the success of its product offering.  One aspect of Kodak's business is licensing others to use Kodak's brand in connection with the sale of such licensees' products and services, and activities by such licensees may be perceived by the market as being activities of Kodak.  The success of Kodak's brand can suffer if its or its licensees' marketing plans, product initiatives or activities do not have the desired impact on the brand's image or ability to attract customers.  Kodak's results could also be negatively impacted if its brand suffers substantial harm to its reputation due to significant product reliability and quality issues, and product-related litigation.  Additionally, negative or inaccurate postings or comments on social media or networking websites about Kodak, its licensees or its brand could generate adverse publicity which could damage the reputation of the brand.  Kodak also devotes significant time and resources to programs consistent with its corporate values and commitments that are designed to protect and preserve its reputation, such as social responsibility and environmental sustainability. If these programs are not executed as planned or suffer negative publicity, Kodak's reputation and financial results could be adversely impacted.. The competitive pressures it faces could harm Kodak's revenue, gross margins, cash flow and market share.. The markets in which Kodak does business are highly competitive with large, entrenched, and well financed industry participants, many of which are larger than Kodak. In addition, it encounters aggressive price competition for many of its products and services from numerous companies globally. Any of its competitors may:. •  foresee the course of market developments more accurately than it does;     •  sell superior products and provide superior services or offer a broader variety of products and services;     •  have the ability to produce or supply similar products and services at a lower cost;     •  have better access to supplies and the ability to acquire supplies at a lower cost;     •  develop stronger relationships with its suppliers or customers;     •  adapt more quickly to new technologies or evolving customer requirements than it does; or     •  have access to capital markets or other financing sources on more favorable terms than it can obtain.. As a result, Kodak may not be able to compete successfully with its competitors. Finally, it may not be able to maintain its operating costs or prices at levels which would allow it to compete effectively. Kodak's results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by these and other industry-wide pricing pressures. If its products, services and pricing are not sufficiently competitive with current and future competitors, it could also lose market share, adversely affecting its revenue, gross margins and cash flow.. 11. An inability to provide competitive financing arrangements to Kodak's customers or extension of credit to customers whose creditworthiness deteriorates could adversely impact its revenue, profitability and financial position.. The competitive environment in which Kodak operates may require it to facilitate or provide financing to its customers. Customer financing arrangements may cover all or a portion of the purchase price for its products and services. It may also assist customers in obtaining financing from banks and other sources. Its success may be dependent, in part, upon its ability to provide customer financing on competitive terms and on its customers' creditworthiness. Tightening of credit in the global financial markets can adversely affect the ability of Kodak's customers to obtain financing for significant purchases, which may result in a decrease in, or cancellation of, orders for its products and services. If Kodak is unable to provide competitive financing solutions to its customers or if it extends credit to customers whose creditworthiness deteriorates, its revenues, profitability and financial position could be adversely impacted.. If Kodak cannot attract, retain and motivate key management and other key employees, its revenue and earnings could be harmed.. In order for it to be successful, Kodak must continue to attract, retain and motivate executives and other key employees, including technical, managerial, marketing, sales, research and support positions. Hiring and retaining qualified executives, research and engineering professionals, and qualified sales representatives, particularly in Kodak's targeted growth markets, are critical to its future. It may be unable to attract and retain highly qualified management and employees, particularly if it does not offer employment terms competitive with the rest of the market. Failure to attract and retain qualified individuals, key leaders, executives and employees, or failure to develop and implement a viable succession plan, could result in inadequate depth of institutional knowledge or skill sets, which could adversely affect its business.. If Kodak cannot effectively anticipate technology trends and develop and market new products to respond to changing customer preferences, its revenue, earnings and cash flow could be adversely affected.. Kodak serves imaging needs for business markets, including packaging, graphic communications, enterprise services, and printed electronics. Its success in these markets depends on its ability to offer differentiated solutions and technologies to capture market share and grow scale. To enable this, it must continually develop and introduce new products and services in a timely manner to keep pace with technological developments and achieve customer acceptance. In addition, the services and products it provides to customers may not or may no longer meet the needs of its customers as the business models of its customers evolve. Its customers may decide to outsource their imaging needs or may purchase imaging services and needs from other suppliers. In addition, it is difficult to predict successfully the products and services its customers will demand. The success of Kodak's business depends in part on its ability to identify and respond promptly to changes in customer preferences, expectations and needs. If it does not timely assess and respond to changing customer expectations, preferences and needs, its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected.. If Kodak is unable to timely anticipate new technology trends, develop improvements to its current technology to address changing customer preferences, and effectively communicate its businesses, products, and the markets it serves, its revenue, earnings and cash flow could be adversely affected. The success of Kodak's technology development efforts may be affected by the development efforts of its competitors, which may have more financial and other resources to better ascertain technology trends, changing customer preferences, and changing business expectations or models. Kodak's assessment and response may as a result be incomplete or inferior when compared to its competitors, which could adversely affect its product roadmaps and associated revenue streams.. Kodak has reduced the scope of its corporate-focused research and development activities.  If its investment in research and product development is inadequate, its response to changing customer needs and changing market dynamics may be too slow and this may adversely affect revenue streams from new products and services.. Kodak makes sizeable investments in new products and services that may not achieve expected returns.. Commercial success depends on many factors, including innovativeness, developer support, and effective distribution and marketing. If customers do not perceive Kodak's latest offerings as providing significant new functionality or other value, they may reduce their purchases of new products or upgrades, unfavorably affecting revenue. Kodak may not achieve significant revenue from new product, service, and distribution channel investments for several years, if at all. New products and services may not be profitable, and even if they are profitable, operating margins for some new products and businesses may not be as high as the margins Kodak has experienced historically. Developing new technologies is complex. It can require long development and testing periods. Significant delays in new releases or significant problems in creating new products or services could adversely affect Kodak's revenue.. Kodak relies on third-party suppliers and service providers to support its manufacturing, logistics, and business operations and faces the risks associated with reliance on external business partners.. Kodak relies on third-party suppliers for goods and services to support its manufacturing, logistics, and business operations.  To the extent it relies on third-parties, it faces the risks that those third parties may not be able to:. •  develop manufacturing methods appropriate to Kodak's products;     •  maintain an adequate control environment;. 12. •  quickly respond to changes in customer demand for Kodak's products;     •  obtain supplies and materials necessary for the manufacturing process; or     •  mitigate the impact of labor shortages and/or other disruptions.. Further, even if Kodak honors its payment and other obligations to its key suppliers of products, components and services, such suppliers may choose to unilaterally withhold products, components or services, or demand changes in payment terms. In addition, it may experience shortages in supply and disruptions in service as a result of unexpected demand, transportation and logistical limitations, and/or disruptions or production difficulties at its suppliers, such as disruptions due to fires, other natural disasters or events outside of a supplier's control. In addition, disruptions could result from a reduction in the number of its suppliers due to their own financial difficulties or a reduction in the products offered by such suppliers. As a result of the loss of any supplier, or a substantial decrease in the availability of products from its suppliers, Kodak may be unable to meet its customer commitments, its costs could be higher than planned, and its cash flows and the reliability of its products could be negatively impacted. Kodak will vigorously enforce its contractual rights under such circumstances, but there is no guarantee it will be successful in preventing or mitigating the effects of unilateral actions by its suppliers. Other supplier problems that Kodak could encounter include electronic component shortages, excess supply, risks related to the duration and termination of its contracts with suppliers for components and materials and risks related to the ability to obtain products, components or services from single source suppliers on favorable terms or at all. The realization of any of these risks, should alternative third-party relationships not be established, could cause interruptions in supply or increases in costs which might result in Kodak's inability to meet customer demand for its products, damage to its relationships with its customers, and reduced market share, all of which could adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition.. Business disruptions could seriously harm Kodak's future revenue and financial condition and increase its costs and expenses.. Worldwide operations could be subject to earthquakes, power shortages, telecommunications failures, cyber-attacks, terrorism and other physical security threats, water shortages, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics, political or economic instability, and other natural or manmade disasters or business interruptions, for which Kodak is predominantly self-insured. The occurrence of any of these business disruptions could seriously harm its revenue and financial condition and increase its costs and expenses. In addition, some areas, including parts of the east and west coasts of the United States, have previously experienced, and may experience in the future, major power shortages and blackouts. These blackouts could cause disruptions to its operations or the operations of its suppliers, distributors and resellers, or customers. It has operations including research and development facilities in geographically disparate locations, such as Israel, Japan, China, Canada and Germany. The impact of these risks is greater in areas where products are manufactured at a sole or limited number of location(s), and where the sourcing of materials is limited to a sole or limited base of suppliers, since any material interruption in operations in such locations or suppliers could impact Kodak's ability to provide a particular product or service for a period of time.. Cyber-attacks or disruptions to our information technology (IT) environment could impact revenue, operations, cost, and competitiveness.. To effectively manage our global business, we depend on secure and reliable information technology systems with accurate data. These systems and their underlying infrastructure are provided by a combination of Kodak and third-parties, and if unavailable or unreliable, could disrupt our operations, causing delays or cancellation of customer orders, impeding the manufacturing or delivery of products, delaying the reporting of financial results, or impacting other business processes critical to running our business.. Our IT systems contain critical information about our business, including intellectual property and confidential information of our customers, business partners, and employees.  Cyber-attacks or defects in our systems could result in this proprietary information being disclosed or modified, which could cause significant damage to our business or our reputation.  We have system controls and security measures in place that are designed to protect our IT systems against intentional or unintentional disruptions of our operations or disclosure of confidential information, but we may not be able to implement solutions that result in stopping or detecting all of these threats to our internal information systems or those of our third-party providers.  A breach of our security measures could result in unauthorized access to and misuse of our information, corruption of data, or disruption of operations, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our business.. We also provide IT-based products and services to our customers, both businesses and consumers, and a breach of our security or reliability measures, or those of our third-party service providers, could negatively impact our customers' operations or data privacy.. Improper disclosure of personal data could result in liability and harm Kodak's reputation.. Kodak receives, processes, transmits and stores information relating to identifiable individuals (personal information), both in its role as a technology provider and as an employer. As a result, Kodak is subject to numerous U.S. federal and state and foreign laws and regulations relating to personal information. These laws have been subject to frequent changes, and new legislation in this area may be enacted at any time. In Europe, the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) will become effective on May 25, 2018 for all European Union (EU) member states. The GDPR will include operational requirements for companies receiving or processing personal data of EU residents that are partially different from those currently in place, and will include significant penalties for non-compliance. This change, as well as any other change to existing laws, the introduction of new laws in this area, or the failure to comply with existing laws that are applicable, may subject Kodak to, among other things, additional costs or changes to its business practices, liability for monetary damages, fines and/or criminal prosecution, unfavorable publicity, restrictions on its ability to obtain and process information and allegations by its customers and clients that it has not performed its contractual obligations. At the same time, the risk of cyber-attacks is relevant to the requirements regarding storage, transfer, sharing and handling of personal information.  This environment demands Kodak continuously improve its design and coordination of security controls and contractual arrangements across its businesses and. 13. geographies.  Despite these efforts, it is possible its security controls over personal data, its training of employees and vendors on data privacy and data security, and other practices it follows may not prevent the improper disclosure of personal information.  Improper disclosure of this information could harm its reputation or subject it to liability under laws which protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue.. If Kodak cannot protect the intellectual property rights on which its business depends, or if third parties assert it violates their intellectual property rights, its revenue, earnings, expenses and liquidity may be adversely impacted.. A key differentiator for Kodak in many of its businesses is its technological advantage over competitors' products and solutions. Its technological advantage is supported by Kodak's intellectual property rights. Patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the United States and similar laws in other countries, and non-disclosure, confidentiality and other types of agreements with Kodak's employees, customers, suppliers and other parties, may not be effective in establishing, maintaining, protecting and enforcing Kodak's intellectual property rights. Any of Kodak's direct or indirect intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated, circumvented, infringed, diluted, disclosed or misappropriated, or such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit it to take advantage of current market trends or otherwise to provide competitive advantages, which could result in costly product redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product offerings or other competitive harm. Further, the laws of certain countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same degree as the laws of the United States. Therefore, in certain jurisdictions, Kodak may be unable to protect its proprietary technology adequately against unauthorized third party copying, infringement or use, which could adversely affect its competitive position.  Also, much of Kodak's business and many of its products rely on key technologies developed or licensed by third parties and, because of the rapid pace of technological change in the information technology industry, it may not be able to obtain or continue to obtain licenses and technologies from relevant third parties on reasonable terms, or at all.. Kodak also licenses third parties to use its trademarks. In an effort to preserve its trademark rights, Kodak enters into license agreements with these third parties which govern the use of its trademarks and require its licensees to abide by quality control standards with respect to the goods and services they provide under the trademarks. Although Kodak makes efforts to police the use of its trademarks by its licensees, there can be no assurance these efforts will be sufficient to ensure the licensees abide by the terms of their licenses. In the event Kodak's licensees fail to do so, its trademark rights could be diluted and its reputation harmed by its licensees' activities.  Also, failure by Kodak and its licensees to sufficiently exploit any of Kodak's trademarks in any markets could erode Kodak's trademark rights with respect to the relevant trademarks. Because the laws and enforcement regimes of certain countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same degree as those in the United States, in certain jurisdictions Kodak may be unable to adequately prevent such unauthorized uses, which could result in impairment of its trademark rights.. Kodak has made substantial investments in new, proprietary technologies and has filed patent applications and obtained patents to protect its intellectual property rights in these technologies as well as the interests of its licensees. There can be no assurance Kodak's patent applications will be approved, any patents issued will be of sufficient scope or strength to provide it with meaningful protection, or such patents will not be challenged by third parties. Furthermore, Kodak may fail to accurately predict all of the countries where patent protection will ultimately be desirable, and if it fails to timely file a patent application in any such country, it may be precluded from doing so at a later date. The patents issuing may vary in scope of coverage depending on the country in which such patents issue.. In addition, the intellectual property rights of others could inhibit Kodak's ability to conduct its business. Other companies may hold patents on technologies used in Kodak's industries and some of these companies are aggressively seeking to expand, enforce or license their patent portfolios.  Third parties may claim Kodak and its customers, licensees or other parties indemnified by it are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. Such claims may be made by competitors seeking to block or limit Kodak's access to certain markets. Additionally, in recent years, individuals and groups have begun purchasing intellectual property assets for the sole purpose of making claims of infringement and attempting to extract settlements from large companies like Kodak. Even if it believes the claims are without merit, these claims may have the following negative impacts on its business:. •  claims can be time consuming and costly to defend and may distract management's attention and resources;     •  claims of intellectual property infringement may require it to redesign affected products, enter into costly settlement or license agreements or pay costly damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting it from marketing or selling certain of its products;     •  even if it has an agreement with a third party to indemnify it against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable to uphold such party's contractual obligations; and     •  if it cannot or does not license the infringed technology at all, license the technology on reasonable terms or substitute similar technology from another source, its revenue and earnings could be adversely impacted.. Finally, Kodak uses open source software in connection with its products and services. Companies which incorporate open source software into their products have, from time to time, faced claims challenging the ownership of open source software and/or compliance with open source license terms. As a result, Kodak could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what it believes to be open source software or noncompliance with open source licensing terms. Some open source software licenses require users who distribute open source software as part of their software to publicly disclose all or part of the source code to such software and/or make available any derivative works of the open source code on unfavorable terms or at no cost.  Any requirement to disclose Kodak's source code or pay damages for breach of contract could be harmful to its business results of operations and financial condition.. 14. Kodak's future pension and other postretirement benefit plan costs and required level of contributions could be unfavorably impacted by changes in actuarial assumptions, market performance of plan assets and obligations imposed by legislation or pension authorities which could adversely affect its financial position, results of operations, and cash flow.. Kodak has significant defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. The funded status of its U.S. and non U.S. defined benefit pension plans (and other postretirement benefit plans), and the related cost reflected in its financial statements, are affected by various factors subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty. Key assumptions used to value these benefit obligations, funded status and expense recognition include the discount rate for future payment obligations, the long term expected rate of return on plan assets, salary growth, healthcare cost trend rates, mortality trends, and other economic and demographic factors. Significant differences in actual experience, or significant changes in future assumptions or obligations imposed by legislation or pension authorities, could lead to a potential future need to contribute cash or assets to Kodak's plans in excess of currently estimated contributions and benefit payments and could have an adverse effect on Kodak's consolidated results of operations, financial position or liquidity.. In past years, Kodak has experienced increases in the costs of these defined benefit pension and postretirement benefit obligations as a result of macro-economic factors beyond its control, including increases in health care costs, declines in investment returns on pension plan assets, and changes in discount rates and mortality rates used to calculate pension and related liabilities. At least some of these macro-economic factors may again put pressure on the cost of providing pension and medical benefits. There can be no assurance it will succeed in limiting cost increases. In addition, continued upward pressure, including any as a result of new legislation, could reduce the profitability of its businesses.. Kodak may be required to recognize impairments in the value of its goodwill and/or other long-lived assets which could adversely affect its results of operations.. Upon emergence from bankruptcy, Kodak applied fresh start accounting pursuant to which the reorganization value was allocated to the individual assets and liabilities based on their estimated fair values. The excess reorganization value over the fair value of identified tangible and intangible assets is reported as goodwill. In connection with fresh start, Kodak also fair valued its other long-lived assets, including intangible assets. The determination of reorganization value, equity value of the Company's common stock and fair value of assets and liabilities is dependent on various estimates and assumptions, including financial projections and the realization of certain events. Kodak tests goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment annually or whenever events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. Kodak evaluates other long-lived assets for impairments whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Impairments could occur in the future if Kodak's expected future cash flows decline, market or interest rate environments deteriorate, or if carrying values change materially compared with changes in their respective fair values.. Kodak's businesses experience seasonality of sales. Therefore, lower demand for Kodak's products or increases in costs during periods which are expected to be at peak in seasonality may have a pronounced negative effect on its results of operations.. Equipment and consumables sales generally exhibit higher levels in the fourth quarter due to the seasonal nature of placements, resulting from customer or industry budgeting practices. As a result, a sequential quarter-to-quarter comparison is not a good indication of Kodak's performance or how it will perform in the future. In addition, adverse developments during what are expected to be peak periods in seasonality, such as lower-than-anticipated demand for its products, an internal systems failure, increases in materials costs, or failure of or performance problems with one of its key logistics, components supply, or manufacturing partners, could have a material adverse impact on its financial condition and operating results. Tight credit markets which limit capital investments or a weak economy which decreases print demand could negatively impact equipment or consumable sales. These external developments are often unpredictable and may have an adverse impact on its business and results of operations.. If Kodak fails to manage distribution of its products and services properly, its revenue, gross margins and earnings could be adversely impacted.. Kodak uses a variety of different distribution methods to sell and deliver its products and services, including third-party resellers and distributors and direct and indirect sales to both enterprise accounts and customers. Successfully managing the interaction of direct and indirect channels with various potential customer segments for its products and services is a complex process. Moreover, since each distribution method has distinct risks and costs, Kodak's failure to achieve the most advantageous balance in the delivery model for its products and services could adversely affect its revenue, gross margins and earnings. This has concentrated Kodak's credit and operational risk and could result in an adverse impact on its financial performance.. Kodak's future results could be harmed if it is unsuccessful in its sales in emerging markets.. Because Kodak is seeking to expand its sales and number of customer relationships outside the United States, including in emerging markets in Asia, Latin America and Eastern Europe, Kodak's business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally, such as:. •  support of multiple languages;     •  recruitment of sales and technical support personnel with the skills to design, manufacture, sell and supply products;     •  compliance with governmental regulation of imports and exports, including obtaining required import or export approval for its products;     •  complexity of managing international operations;     •  exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations;. 15. •  commercial laws and business practices which may favor local competition;     •  multiple, potentially conflicting, and changing governmental laws, regulations and practices, including differing export, import, tax, anti-corruption, anti-dumping, economic sanction, labor, and employment laws;     •  difficulties in collecting accounts receivable;     •  limitations or restrictions on the repatriation of cash;     •  limitations or reductions in protection of intellectual property rights;     •  complications in logistics and distribution arrangements; and     •  political or economic instability.. There can be no assurance Kodak will be able to market and sell its products in all of its targeted markets. If its efforts are not successful, its business growth and results of operations could be harmed. As a global company, Kodak is subject to regulatory requirements and laws in the jurisdictions in which it operates, and any alleged non-compliance with these requirements or laws could result in an adverse financial or reputational impact.. Kodak is subject to environmental laws and regulations and failure to comply with such laws and regulations or liabilities imposed as a result of such laws and regulations could have an adverse effect on its business, results of operations and financial condition.. Kodak is subject to environmental laws and regulations world-wide that govern, for example, the discharge of pollutants, the management of hazardous materials, the cleanup of contaminated sites, and the composition and end-of-life management of its products.  Non-compliance with applicable laws or liability incurred without regard to fault could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations and financial condition. The cost of complying with such laws could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations and financial condition.. In addition, the Company, the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation and the New York Empire State Development Corporation have entered into a settlement agreement concerning certain of the Company's historical environmental liabilities at Eastman Business Park or from discharges to the Genesee River through the establishment of a $49 million environmental remediation trust. Should historical liabilities exceed $49 million, New York State is responsible for payments of cost up to an additional $50 million. In the event the historical liabilities exceed $99 million, the Company will become liable for 50% of the portion above $99 million, which could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition. The settlement agreement was implemented on May 20, 2014. The settlement agreement includes a covenant not to sue from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. Any uncertainties related to the Company's environmental obligations may impact its ability to further develop and transform Eastman Business Park.. Kodak may have additional tax liabilities.. Kodak is subject to income taxes in the U.S. and in many foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining Kodak's worldwide provision for income taxes.  In the course of its business, there are transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. For example, compliance with the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"2017 Tax Act\") may require the collection of information not regularly produced within Kodak, the use of provisional estimates in its financial statements, and the exercise of significant judgment in accounting for its provisions. Many aspects of the 2017 Tax Act are unclear and may not be clarified for some time.  As regulations and guidance evolve with respect to the 2017 Tax Act, and as Kodak gathers more information and performs more analysis, Kodak's results may differ from previous estimates and may materially affect our financial position.. Kodak operates within multiple taxing jurisdictions worldwide and is subject to audit in these jurisdictions.  These audits can involve complex issues, which may require an extended period of time for resolution.  Management's ongoing assessments of the outcomes of these issues and related tax positions require judgment, and although management believes that adequate provisions have been made for such issues, there is the possibility that the ultimate resolution of such issues could have an adverse effect on the earnings and cash flow of Kodak.. Kodak's business, financial position, results of operations, cash flows and reputation may be negatively impacted by legal matters.. Kodak has various contingencies which are not reflected on its balance sheet, including those arising as a result of being involved from time to time in a variety of claims, lawsuits, investigations, remediations and proceedings concerning:  commercial, tax, tort, customs, employment, health and safety and intellectual property matters, licensee activities, and compliance with various domestic and international laws and regulations.  Should developments in any of these matters cause a change in its determination as to an unfavorable outcome and result in the need to recognize a material accrual, or should any of these matters result in a final adverse judgment or be settled for significant amounts, they could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. 16. Regulations related to \"conflict minerals\" may require Kodak to incur additional expenses and could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain metals used in manufacturing Kodak's products.. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act contains provisions to improve transparency and accountability concerning the supply of minerals originating from the conflict zones of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and adjoining countries. As a result, in August 2012, the SEC adopted rules requiring disclosure related to sourcing of specified minerals, known as \"conflict minerals,\" which are necessary to the functionality or production of products manufactured or contracted to be manufactured by public companies. Kodak has designed its overall conflict minerals policies and procedures to be consistent with the guidance issued by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), and continues to perform due diligence on its supply chain.  Kodak filed its most recent Conflict Minerals Disclosure report for the reporting period from January 1, 2016 to December 31, 2016 on May 31, 2017.  As of the date of the report, Kodak determined certain of its products contain such specified minerals, but was unable to determine whether or not such minerals originate from the DRC or an adjoining country.  Kodak may incur additional costs to comply with these disclosure requirements, including costs related to determining the sources of the specified minerals used in its products, in addition to the cost of any changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities, which may adversely affect its business. In addition, the number of suppliers who provide \"conflict-free\" minerals may be limited, which may make it difficult to satisfy customers who require all of the components of its products be certified as conflict-free, which could place it at a competitive disadvantage if it is unable to do so. Because Kodak's supply chain is complex, it may also not be able to sufficiently verify the origins of the relevant minerals used in its products through its due diligence procedures, which may harm its reputation.. Risks Related to the Company's Indebtedness and Access to Capital Markets. There can be no assurance the Company will be able to comply with the terms of its various credit facilities.. A breach of any of the financial or other covenants contained in the Senior Secured First Lien Term Credit Agreement (the \"First Lien Term Credit Agreement\") or the Asset Based Revolving Credit Agreement (the \"ABL Credit Agreement\" and, together with the First Lien Term Credit Agreement, the \"Credit Agreements\") could result in an event of default under these facilities. If any event of default occurs and the Company is not able to either cure it or obtain a waiver from the requisite lenders under each of these facilities, the administrative agent of each credit facility may, and at the request of the requisite lenders for that facility must, declare all of the Company's outstanding obligations under the applicable credit facility, together with accrued interest and fees, to be immediately due and payable and the agent under the ABL Credit Agreement may, and at the request of the requisite lenders must, terminate the lenders' commitments under that facility and cease making further loans, and if applicable, each respective agent could institute foreclosure proceedings against the pledged assets. Any of these outcomes could adversely affect the Company's operations and its ability to satisfy its obligations as they come due.. The combination of covenant requirements in the First Lien Term Credit Agreement and Kodak's on-going investment in growth businesses, and continuing softness and volatility of global economic conditions and foreign currency exchange rates, could make it difficult for the Company to satisfy the leverage covenants under the First Lien Term Credit Agreement on an on-going basis.. The Company is obligated to comply with a number of financial and other covenants contained in the Credit Agreements.  Kodak intends to conduct its operations in a manner which will result in continued compliance with the secured leverage ratio covenants under the First Lien Term Credit Agreement; however, compliance for future quarters may depend on Kodak undertaking one or more non-operational transactions, such as a monetization of assets, a debt refinancing, the raising of equity capital, or a similar transaction. If the Company is unable to remain in compliance and does not make alternate arrangements with its term lenders, an event of default would occur under the Credit Agreements which, among other remedies, would entitle the lenders or their agents to declare the outstanding obligations under the Credit Agreements to be immediately due and payable.. The availability of borrowings and letters of credit under the ABL Credit Agreement is limited by the amount of various types of assets and, under certain circumstances, the administrative agent under the ABL Credit Agreement will have greater control over Kodak's cash.. Availability under the Company's ABL Credit Agreement is based on the amount of Eligible Receivables, Eligible Inventory, Eligible Machinery and Equipment and Eligible Cash less specified reserves as described in Note 8, \"Debt and Capital Leases\" to the consolidated financial statements.  Kodak's U.S. Accounts Receivable and Inventory levels have declined over the past four years, and Machinery and Equipment for purposes of the ABL Credit Agreement amortizes down by $1 million per quarter.  If Eligible Receivables, Eligible Inventory and Eligible Machinery and Equipment continue to decline and an asset base cannot be maintained to support the $96 million of outstanding letters of credit and the $19 million of Excess Availability required under the ABL Credit Agreement, the Company would be required to increase restricted cash deposited in the Eligible Cash account or remain in compliance with the ABL Credit Agreement's Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio and operate under cash dominion by the administrative agent under the ABL Credit Agreement.  Additional cash deposited in the Eligible Cash account would be classified as restricted cash, would not be available to support ongoing working capital and investment needs and could not be used in determining the Net Secured Leverage Ratio under the First Lien Term Credit Agreement.  If the administrative agent under the ABL Credit Agreement executed cash dominion, it would increase operational complexities for the Company.  An event of default would occur under these circumstances if neither of these alternatives were achieved.. The Company's substantial monetary obligations require a portion of its cash flow be used to pay interest, dividends and fund other obligations rather than be invested in the business and could adversely affect its ability to fund its operations.. 17. The Company's indebtedness under the Credit Agreements and its other obligations including the potential mandatory redemption of the Series A Preferred Stock could have important negative consequences to the Company and investors in its securities. These include the following:. •  it may not be able to satisfy all of its obligations, including, but not limited to, its obligations under the Credit Agreements, which may cause a cross-default or cross-acceleration on other debt it may have incurred;     •  it could have difficulties obtaining necessary financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, mandatory redemption of the Series A Preferred Stock, refinancing or other purposes;     •  it will have to use a significant part of its cash flow or cash balances to make payments on its debt or Series A Preferred Stock and to satisfy the other obligations set forth above, which may reduce the capital available for operations and expansion; and     •  adverse economic or industry conditions may have more of a negative impact on it.. The Company cannot be sure cash generated from its business will be as high as it expects or its expenses will not be higher than it expects. Because a portion of its expenses are fixed in any given year, its operating cash flow margins are highly dependent on revenues, which are largely driven by customer demand. A lower amount of cash generated from its business or higher expenses than expected, when coupled with its debt obligations, could adversely affect its ability to fund its operations.. Kodak's access to the capital markets may be limited.. Because of Kodak's current non-investment grade credit ratings, and/or general conditions in the financial and credit markets, its access to the capital markets may be limited. Moreover, the urgency of a capital-raising transaction may require it to pursue additional capital at an inopportune time or unattractive cost. The maturity date of the loans under the First Lien Term Credit Agreement is September 3, 2019, and such loans must be refinanced, repaid or extended by such date.  Kodak's ability to obtain capital and the costs of such capital are dependent on numerous factors, including:. •  covenants in the Credit Agreements;     •  obtaining a consent from the holders of Series A Preferred Stock for the issuance of additional preferred shares which rank senior or pari passu to the Series A Preferred Stock;     •  investor confidence in Kodak and the markets in which it operates;     •  its financial performance and the financial performance of its subsidiaries;     •  its levels of debt and redemption obligations, including the mandatory redemption of the Series A Preferred Stock on November 15, 2021;     •  its ability to generate positive cash flow;     •  its requirements for posting collateral under various commercial agreements;     •  its credit ratings;     •  its cash flow;     •  its long-term business prospects; and     •  general economic and capital market conditions.. Kodak may not be successful in obtaining additional capital for these or other reasons. An inability to access capital may limit its ability to meet its operating needs and, as a result, may have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The current non-investment grade status may adversely impact Kodak's commercial operations, increase its liquidity requirements and increase the cost of refinancing opportunities. It may not have adequate liquidity to post required amounts of additional collateral.. The Company's corporate family credit rating is currently below investment grade and there are no assurances its credit ratings will improve, or they will not decline, in the future. Its credit ratings may affect the evaluation of its creditworthiness by trading counterparties and lenders, which could put it at a disadvantage to competitors with higher or investment grade ratings.. In carrying out its commercial business strategy, the current non-investment grade credit ratings have resulted and will likely continue to result in requirements that Kodak either prepay obligations or post significant amounts of collateral to support its business. Additionally, the current non-investment grade credit ratings may limit its ability to obtain additional sources of liquidity, refinance its debt obligations, including any mandatory redemption of its Series A Preferred Stock, or access the capital markets at the lower borrowing costs which would presumably be available to competitors with higher or investment grade ratings. Should its ratings continue at their current levels, or should its ratings be further downgraded, it would expect these negative effects to continue and, in the case of a downgrade, become more pronounced.  In particular, if the Company's credit ratings were to decline it would be required to provide up to $19 million of letters of credit to the issuers of certain surety bonds to fully collateralize such bonds.. 18. Risks Related to the Company's Common Stock. The conversion of the Company's Series A Preferred Stock into shares of the Company's common stock may dilute the value for the current holders of the Company's common stock.. The 2,000,000 outstanding shares of the Company's Series A Preferred Stock are convertible into shares of the Company's common stock at a conversion rate of 5.7471 shares of common stock per share of Series A Preferred Stock. As a result of the conversion of any issued and outstanding Series A Preferred Stock, the Company's existing shareholders will own a smaller percentage of its outstanding common stock. Based on the capitalization of the Company as of March 1, 2018, the conversion of all shares of the Series A Preferred Stock would result in the issuance to holders thereof of approximately 21% of the outstanding common stock after giving effect to such conversion. Further, additional shares of common stock may be issuable pursuant to certain other features of the Series A Preferred Stock, with such issuances being further dilutive to existing holders of common stock.. If Series A Preferred Stock is converted into common stock, holders of such converted common stock will be entitled to the same dividend and distribution rights as holders of the common stock currently authorized and outstanding. As such, another dilutive effect resulting from the conversion of any issued and outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock will be a dilution to dividends and distributions.. Holders of the Company's common stock will not realize any dilution in their ownership, dividend or distribution rights solely as a result of the reservation of any shares of common stock for issuance upon conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock or for issuance of additional shares of common stock pursuant to certain other features of the Series A Preferred Stock, but will experience such dilution to the extent additional shares of common stock are issued in the future as described above.. The holders of the Company's Series A Preferred Stock own a large portion of the voting power of the Company's outstanding securities and have the right to nominate two members to the Company's Board. As a result, these holders may influence the composition of the Board and future actions taken by the Board.. The holders of the Company's Series A Preferred Stock are entitled to vote upon all matters upon which holders of the Company's common stock have the right to vote and are entitled to the number of votes equal to the number of full shares of common stock into which such shares of Series A Preferred Stock could be converted at the then applicable conversion rate. These holders currently hold approximately 30% of the voting power of the Company on an as-converted basis. As a result, these holders may have the ability to influence future actions by the Company requiring shareholder approval.  The Company and these holders are parties to a Shareholder Agreement that contains certain restrictions on disposition or acquisition of Company securities and other actions by these holders, some of which restrictions will expire on April 17, 2020.. Further, for as long as they hold any shares of Series A Preferred Stock, the current holders of the Series A Preferred Stock are entitled to nominate for election (collectively and not individually) at the Company's annual meeting of shareholders a number of directors to the board of directors of the Company (the \"Board\") commensurate with their ownership percentage of common stock on an as-converted basis. Two of the Company's current Board members were nominated by these current holders, who also have the right to fill vacancies on the Board created by one of their nominees ceasing to serve on the Board. The nomination and other rights regarding the Board granted to the current holders of Series A Preferred Stock are not transferrable to any other person. Also, whenever dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock are in arrears for six or more dividend periods, the holders of Series A Preferred Stock (voting with holders of all other classes of preferred stock of the Company whose voting rights are then exercisable) are entitled to vote for the election of two additional directors at the Company's next annual meeting and all subsequent meetings until all accumulated dividends on such Series A Preferred Stock and other voting preferred stock have been paid or set aside (during which time the number of directors the current holders of Series A Preferred Stock are entitled to nominate under the Purchase Agreement will be reduced by two). As a result, the presence of directors on the Board nominated by the current holders of Series A Preferred Stock or elected by the holders of Series A Preferred Stock would enable such current holders or the holders of Series A Preferred Stock to influence the composition of the Board and, in turn, potentially influence and impact future actions taken by the Board.. The Company has registered the resale of a large portion of its outstanding securities.  The resale of the Company's common stock, or the perception that such resale may occur, may adversely affect the price of its common stock.. In compliance with two Registration Rights Agreements to which the Company is a party, it has registered the resale of an aggregate of 20,723,050 shares of outstanding common stock, 2,000,000 shares of outstanding Series A Preferred Stock, 11,494,200 shares of common stock, subject to anti-dilution adjustments, issuable upon the conversion of outstanding Series A Preferred Stock, and 863,804 shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of outstanding warrants.  The resale of a substantial number of shares of common stock in the public market, or the perception that such resale might occur, could cause the market price of the Company's common stock to decline. Under the terms of the Registration Rights Agreements to which the Company is subject, the counterparties to such Registration Rights Agreements can, in certain circumstances, require the Company to participate in an underwritten public offering of the registered securities. Any shares sold in a registered resale will be freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act. While the Company cannot predict the size of future resales or distributions of its common stock, if there is a perception that such resales or distributions could occur, or if the holders of the Company's securities registered for resale sell a large number of the registered securities, the market price for the Company's common stock could be adversely affected.. The resale of a significant portion of the Company's securities registered for resale could result in a change of control of the Company and the loss of favorable tax attributes.. 19. The Company has registered the resale of securities representing approximately 60% of its outstanding shares of common stock assuming the issuance of all common stock issuable upon the conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock or the exercise of the warrants corresponding to shares of common stock registered for resale.  Although the holders of the subject securities consist of several unaffiliated groups, these holders collectively have a controlling influence over all matters presented to the Company's shareholders for approval, including election of members to the Board and change of control transactions. In addition, the holders of subject securities collectively would be able to cause a change of control of the Company by selling a sufficient portion of the Company's securities held by them. If such a transaction, in combination with other transactions including the issuance of the Series A Preferred Stock, were to result in an \"ownership change\" as determined under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, then the Company's ability to offset taxable income with tax attributes generated prior to the ownership change date could be limited, possibly substantially.  For more information on the Company's tax attributes refer to Note 14, \"Income Taxes\".  The interests of the holders of the securities registered for resale may not always coincide with the interests of the other holders of our common stock.. The market price of the Company's common stock may be volatile and such volatility may be affected by the volatility of blockchain and cryptocurrency markets.. The trading price of the Company's common stock may be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, including the risk factors described above and other factors which are beyond Kodak's control.  The trading price of the Company's common stock has been dramatically affected by the announcement of the license granted by Kodak to WENN Digital, Inc. (\"WENN\") to use Kodak's brand in connection with WENN's KODAKOne blockchain-based image rights management platform and Kodak-branded cryptocurrency.  Kodak may, in the future, have other involvement relating to blockchain technology or cryptocurrency, either directly or as a licensor.  Kodak cannot predict whether, or the extent to which, the trading price of the Company's common stock will continue to be affected by blockchain or cryptocurrency markets and any volatility in such markets."
