[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. Natural gas prices fluctuate due to a number of factors that are beyond the control of the Trust and Greylock, and lower prices would reduce proceeds to the Trust and cash distributions to unitholders.. The Trust's reserves and quarterly cash distributions are highly dependent upon the prices realized from the sale of natural gas. Natural gas prices can fluctuate widely on a month-to-month basis in response to a variety of factors that are beyond the control of the Trust and Greylock. These factors include, among others:. <U+0095> weather conditions and seasonal trends;    <U+0095> regional, domestic and foreign supply and perceptions of supply of natural gas;    <U+0095> availability of imported liquefied natural gas, or LNG;. 22. Table of Contents. <U+0095> the level of demand and perceptions of demand for natural gas;    <U+0095> anticipated future prices of natural gas, LNG and other commodities;    <U+0095> technological advances affecting energy consumption and energy supply;    <U+0095> U.S. and worldwide political and economic conditions;    <U+0095> the price and availability of alternative fuels;    <U+0095> the proximity, capacity, cost and availability of gathering and transportation facilities;    <U+0095> the volatility and uncertainty of regional pricing differentials;    <U+0095> acts of force majeure;    <U+0095> governmental regulations and taxation; and    <U+0095> energy conservation and environmental measures.. Lower natural gas prices will reduce proceeds to which the Trust is entitled and may ultimately reduce the amount of natural gas that is economic to produce from the Underlying Properties. As a result, the operator of any of the Underlying Properties could determine during periods of low natural gas prices to shut in or curtail production from wells on the Underlying Properties. In addition, the operator of the Underlying Properties could determine during periods of low natural gas prices to plug and abandon marginal wells that otherwise may have been allowed to continue to produce for a longer period under conditions of higher prices. Specifically, Greylock may abandon any well or property if it reasonably believes that the well or property can no longer produce natural gas in commercially economic quantities. This could result in termination of the portion of the royalty interest relating to the abandoned well or property, and Greylock would have no obligation to drill a replacement well. In making such decisions, Greylock is required under the applicable conveyance to act as a reasonably prudent operator in the AMI under the same or similar circumstances as it would act if it were acting with respect to its own properties, disregarding the existence of the Royalty Interests as burdens affecting such property. The volatility of natural gas prices also reduces the accuracy of estimates of future cash distributions to Trust unitholders.. Actual reserves and future production may be less than current estimates, which could reduce cash distributions by the Trust and the value of the Trust units.. The value of the Trust units and the amount of future cash distributions to the Trust unitholders will depend upon, among other things, the accuracy of the reserves estimated to be attributable to the Trust's Royalty Interests. The Trust's reserve quantities and revenues are based on estimates of reserve quantities and revenues for the Underlying Properties. See \"The underlying properties - Natural gas reserves\" in the Prospectus for a discussion of the method of allocating Proved reserves to the Trust. It is not possible to measure underground accumulations of natural gas in an exact way, and estimating reserves is inherently uncertain. Ultimately, actual production and revenues for the Underlying Properties could vary negatively and in material amounts from estimates and those variations could be material. Petroleum engineers are required to make subjective estimates of underground accumulations of natural gas based on factors and assumptions that include:. <U+0095> historical production from the area compared with production rates from other producing areas;    <U+0095> natural gas prices, production levels, Btu content, production expenses, transportation costs, severance and excise taxes and capital expenditures; and    <U+0095> the assumed effect of governmental regulation.. 23. Table of Contents. Changes in these assumptions or actual production costs incurred and results of actual development and production costs could materially decrease reserve estimates.. Further, the reserve report estimating the Trust's proved reserves, future production and income attributable to the Trust's Royalty Interests as of December 31, 2017 was prepared, in accordance with applicable regulations, using a weighted benchmark price adjusted for differentials resulting in an average natural gas price of $2.63 per Mcf during 2017, as described in Appendix A to this report. At the date of this report, the weighted benchmark natural gas price, adjusted for differentials, for production in which the Trust has an interest is below $2.63. A reserve report prepared using the current lower value would result in lower proved reserves, future production and income attributable to the Trust's Royalty Interests.. The generation of proceeds for distribution by the Trust depends in part on gathering, transportation and processing facilities owned by Greylock and others. Any limitation in the availability of those facilities could interfere with sales of natural gas production from the Underlying Properties.. The amount of natural gas that may be produced and sold from any well to which the Underlying Properties relate is subject to curtailment in certain circumstances, such as by reason of weather conditions, pipeline interruptions due to scheduled and unscheduled maintenance, failure of tendered gas to meet quality specifications of gathering lines or downstream transporters, excessive line pressure which prevents delivery of gas, physical damage to the gathering system or transportation system or lack of contracted capacity on such systems. The curtailments may vary from a few days to several months. In many cases, Greylock is provided limited notice, if any, as to when production will be curtailed and the duration of such curtailments. If Greylock is forced to reduce production due to such a curtailment, the revenues of the Trust and the amount of cash distributions to the Trust unitholders would similarly be reduced due to the reduction of proceeds from the sale of production.. The generation of proceeds for distribution by the Trust depends in part on the ability of Greylock and/or its customers to obtain service on transportation facilities owned by third party pipelines. Any limitation in the availability of those facilities and/or any increase in the cost of service on those facilities could interfere with sales of natural gas production from the Underlying Properties.. Natural gas that is gathered on the Greene County Gathering System, including natural gas produced from the Underlying Properties, is currently shipped on two interstate natural gas transportation pipelines. Greylock or its purchasers have contracted with those pipelines for firm or interruptible transportation service. The rates for service on the transportation pipelines are regulated by the FERC and are subject to increase if the pipeline demonstrates that the existing rates are unjust and unreasonable.. Greylock has an agreement with Columbia to provide firm transportation downstream of Greylock's Greene County Gathering System for 50,000 MMBtu per day. This firm transportation arrangement, which terminates July 31, 2021, has been in effect since August 1, 2011 and is at Columbia's filed tariff rate, which is currently $0.1878 per MMBtu at a one hundred percent load factor. This firm transportation is an additional post-production cost, and the Trust bears its proportionate share of such costs.. In the future, Greylock may seek to obtain additional firm transportation capacity, but such capacity may not be available. In addition, to the extent Greylock's customers or Greylock became dependent on interruptible service, and to the extent that either pipeline receives requests for service that exceed the capacity of the pipeline, the pipeline will honor requests by its firm customers first, and will then allocate remaining capacity, if any, to interruptible shippers. As a result, Greylock or its customers may be unable to obtain all or a part of any requested interruptible capacity service on the transportation pipelines. Any inability of Greylock or its customers to procure sufficient capacity to. 24. Table of Contents. transport the natural gas gathered on the Greene County Gathering System will decrease and/or delay the receipt of any proceeds that may be associated with natural gas production from wells on the Underlying Properties. In addition, any increase in transportation rates paid by Greylock for production attributable to the Trust's interests will decrease the proceeds received by the Trust.. Due to the Trust's lack of industry and geographic diversification, adverse developments in the Trust's existing area of operation could adversely impact its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and reduce its ability to make distributions to the unitholders.. The Underlying Properties are operated for natural gas production only and are focused exclusively in the Marcellus Shale formation in Greene County, Pennsylvania. In particular, the concentration of the Underlying Properties in the Marcellus Shale formation in Greene County could disproportionately expose the Trust's interests to operational and regulatory risk in that area. Due to the lack of diversification in industry type and location of the Trust's interests, adverse developments in the natural gas market or the area of the Underlying Properties could have a significantly greater impact on the Trust's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows than if the Trust's Royalty Interests were more diversified.. The Trust units may lose value as a result of title deficiencies with respect to the Underlying Properties.. The existence of a material title deficiency with respect to the Underlying Properties can reduce the value or render a property worthless, thus adversely affecting the distributions to unitholders. Greylock does not obtain title insurance covering mineral leaseholds. Additionally, undeveloped acreage has greater risk of title defects than developed acreage.. Prior to the drilling of the PUD Wells, Legacy ECA obtained preliminary title reviews to ensure there were no obvious defects in title to the leasehold. However, a title review is not title insurance, and in the event of a material title problem in the future, proceeds available for distribution to unitholders, and the value of the Trust units, may be reduced.. The Trust is passive in nature and has no stockholder voting rights in Greylock, managerial, contractual or other ability to influence Greylock, or control over the field operations of, sale of natural gas from, or development of, the Underlying Properties.. Neither the Trust nor the Trust unitholders has any voting rights with respect to Greylock and therefore none of them has any managerial, contractual or other ability to influence Greylock's activities or operations of the natural gas properties. This is how, pursuant to the Administrative Services Agreement and the Development Agreement, Legacy ECA was able to transfer operations of all of the Trust properties to Greylock, who also retains the right to transfer operations of any or all of the Trust properties. Any third-party operators may not have the operational expertise of Greylock within the AMI. Natural gas properties are typically managed pursuant to an operating agreement among the working interest owners in the properties. The typical operating agreement contains procedures whereby the owners of the working interests in the property designate one of the interest owners to be the operator of the property. Under these arrangements, the operator is typically responsible for making all decisions relating to drilling activities, sale of production, compliance with regulatory requirements and other matters that affect the property. Neither the Trustee nor the Trust unitholders has any contractual ability to influence or control the field operations of, sale of natural gas from, or any future development of, the Underlying Properties. The Trust units are a passive investment that entitles the Trust only to receive cash distributions attributable to the Royalty Interests.. 25. Table of Contents. Greylock may sell all or a portion of the Underlying Properties, subject to and burdened by the Royalty Interests, and any such purchaser could have a weaker financial position and/or be less experienced in natural gas development and production than Greylock.. Trust unitholders will not be entitled to vote on any sale of the Underlying Properties if the Underlying Properties are sold subject to and burdened by the Royalty Interests and the Trust will not receive any proceeds from any such sale. The purchaser would be responsible for all of Greylock's obligations relating to the Royalty Interests on the portion of the Underlying Properties sold, and Greylock would have no continuing obligation to the Trust for those properties. Additionally, Greylock may enter into farmout or joint venture arrangements with respect to the wells burdened by the Royalty Interests. Any purchaser, farmout counterparty or joint venture partner could have a weaker financial position and/or be less experienced in natural gas development and production than Greylock.. The natural gas reserves estimated to be attributable to the Underlying Properties of the Trust are depleting assets and production from those reserves will diminish over time. Furthermore, the Trust is precluded from acquiring other oil and gas properties or Royalty Interests to replace the depleting assets and production.. The proceeds payable to the Trust from the Royalty Interests are derived from the sale of the production of natural gas from the Underlying Properties. The natural gas reserves attributable to the Underlying Properties are depleting assets, which means that the reserves of natural gas attributable to the Underlying Properties will decline over time. As a result, the quantity of natural gas produced from the Underlying Properties will decline over time. Based on the estimated production volumes in the original reserve report described in the Prospectus, the gas production from proved producing reserves attributable to the PDP Royalty Interest was projected to decline at an average rate of approximately 8.5% per year over the life of the Trust. With respect to the PUD Wells, as of the Trust formation date, the production rate was expected to decline approximately 37.3% during the first year of production, approximately 14.7% during the next three to five years of production and approximately 8.0% per year for the remainder of the economically productive life of the well. These production characteristics were generally consistent with other development wells in the AMI. The anticipated rate of decline as originally projected was an estimate and actual decline rates may vary from those estimates. The average decline rate for the 40 PUD Wells for which Greylock now has several years of production data was about 43.5% during the first year.. Future maintenance may affect the quantity of Proved reserves that can be economically produced from the Underlying Properties to which the wells relate. The timing and size of these projects will depend on, among other factors, the market prices of natural gas. Greylock has no contractual obligation to make capital expenditures on the Underlying Properties in the future. Furthermore, for properties on which Greylock is not designated as the operator, Greylock has no control over the timing or amount of those capital expenditures. Greylock also has the right to non-consent and not participate in the capital expenditures on properties for which it is not the operator, in which case Greylock and the Trust will not receive the production resulting from such capital expenditures. If Greylock or other operators of the wells to which the Underlying Properties relate do not implement maintenance projects when warranted, the future rate of production decline of Proved reserves may be higher than the rate currently expected by Greylock or estimated in the reserve report.. The Trust Agreement provides that the Trust's business activities are limited to owning the Royalty Interests and any activity reasonably related to such ownership, including activities required or permitted by the terms of the conveyances related to the Royalty Interests. As a result, the Trust is not permitted to acquire other oil and gas properties or royalty interests to replace the depleting assets and production attributable to the Trust.. 26. Table of Contents. The amount of cash available for distribution by the Trust will be reduced by the amount of post-production costs, applicable taxes associated with the Trust's interest, and Trust expenses.. The Royalty Interests and the Trust bear certain costs and expenses that reduce the amount of cash received by the Trust or available for distribution by the Trust to the holders of the Trust units. These costs and expenses include those described below.. <U+0095> Substantially all of the production from the Producing Wells and the PUD Wells utilize the Greene County Gathering System. The Trust paid the initial Post-Production Services Fee to Legacy ECA for use of such system, which includes Legacy ECA's costs to gather, compress, transport, process, treat, dehydrate and market the gas. This fee was fixed until Legacy ECA's obligation to drill the PUD Wells was satisfied in 2011; thereafter, Legacy ECA was and Greylock is permitted to increase this fee to the extent necessary to recover certain capital expenditures on the Greene County Gathering System, provided the resulting charge does not exceed the prevailing charges in the area for similar services. Additionally, the Trust is charged for the cost of fuel used in the compression process or equivalent electricity charges when electric compressors are used.    <U+0095> Any third party post-production costs incurred and associated with the Trust's interests reduces cash received by the Trust or available for distribution by the Trust to the holders of the Trust units, including any amounts paid by Greylock for transportation on downstream interstate pipelines. Such post-production costs include the costs incurred in connection with Greylock's agreement with a third party to obtain firm transportation downstream of the Greene County Gathering System for 50,000 MMBtu per day at the third party's filed tariff rate, which equates to $0.1878 per MMBtu at a one hundred percent load factor. The rate is subject to adjustments, which may be retroactive, by regulatory authorities.     <U+0095> Taxes allocated to or imposed on the Trust include Pennsylvania franchise tax and any applicable property, ad valorem, production, severance, excise and other similar taxes. Currently, there are no taxes in Pennsylvania related to the production or severance of oil and natural gas in Pennsylvania; however, there have been proposals to enact a severance tax, none of which were adopted, in both the Pennsylvania Senate Finance Committee and the House Energy and Environmental Resources Committees, and lawmakers may propose other taxes in the future. If adopted, such taxes would be a post-production cost that is borne by the Trust.    <U+0095> The Trust bears 100% of Trust administrative expenses, including fees paid to the Trustee and the Delaware Trustee and an annual administrative services fee of $60,000 payable to Greylock.    <U+0095> The Trust is also responsible for paying other expenses, including costs associated with annual and quarterly reports to unitholders, tax return and Schedule K-1 preparation and distribution, independent auditor fees and registrar and transfer agent fees.. The amount of costs and expenses borne by the Trust may vary materially from quarter-to-quarter. The extent by which the costs and expenses described above are higher or lower in any quarter will directly decrease or increase the amount received by the Trust and available for distribution to the unitholders.. A decrease in the differential between the price realized by Greylock for natural gas produced from the Underlying Properties and the NYMEX or other benchmark price of natural gas could reduce the proceeds to the Trust and therefore the cash distributions by the Trust and the value of Trust units.. During the first few years of the Trust's existence, prices received for natural gas production from Trust properties exceeded the relevant benchmark prices, such as NYMEX; however, since 2014 the prices received have been lower than the benchmark prices, and this dynamic could continue in the future. The difference between the price received and the benchmark price is called a differential. The. 27. Table of Contents. differential may vary significantly due to market conditions, the quality and location of production and other factors. Greylock cannot accurately predict natural gas differentials. Further decreases in the differential between the realized price of natural gas and the benchmark price for natural gas could reduce the proceeds to the Trust and, accordingly, reduce the cash distributions by the Trust and the value of the Trust units.. The Trust has no hedges in place to protect against the price risk inherent in holding interest in natural gas, a commodity that is frequently characterized by significant price volatility.. At the formation of the Trust, approximately fifty percent of the estimated natural gas production attributable to the Royalty Interests was hedged from April 1, 2010 through March 31, 2014. From inception through the termination of the hedge arrangements, the Trust received approximately $35 million that it would not have received without the hedge arrangements. The last of the hedge arrangements expired March 31, 2014. Consequently, unitholders no longer have the benefit of any hedge arrangements, and all production is subject to the price risks inherent in holding interests in natural gas, a commodity that is frequently characterized by significant price volatility.. Natural gas wells are subject to operational hazards that can cause substantial losses. Greylock maintains insurance but may not be adequately insured for all such hazards.. There are a variety of operating risks inherent in natural gas production and associated activities, such as fires, leaks, explosions, mechanical problems, major equipment failures, blow-outs, uncontrollable flow of natural gas, water or drilling fluids, casing collapses, abnormally pressurized formations and natural disasters. The occurrence of any of these or similar accidents that temporarily or permanently halt the production and sale of natural gas at any of the Underlying Properties will reduce Trust distributions by reducing the amount of proceeds available for distribution.. Additionally, if any of such risks or similar accidents occur, Greylock could incur substantial losses as a result of injury or loss of life, severe damage or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, regulatory investigation and penalties and environmental damage and clean-up responsibility. If Greylock experiences any of these problems, its ability to conduct operations and perform its obligations to the Trust could be adversely affected. While Greylock maintains insurance coverage it deems appropriate for these risks with respect to the Underlying Properties, Greylock's operations may result in liabilities exceeding such insurance coverage or liabilities not covered by insurance. If a well is damaged, Greylock would have no obligation to drill a replacement well or make the Trust whole for the loss. The Trust does not maintain any type of insurance against any of the risks of conducting oil and gas exploration and production or related activities.. The Trustee may, under certain circumstances, sell the Royalty Interests and dissolve the Trust. Unless sooner terminated, the Trust will begin to terminate following the end of the 20-year period in which the Trust owns the Term Royalty Interests.. The Trustee must sell the Royalty Interests if unitholders approve the sale or vote to dissolve the Trust. The Trustee must also sell the Royalty Interests if the gross proceeds to the Trust attributable to the Royalty Interests over any four consecutive quarters are less than $1.5 million. Sale of all the Royalty Interests will result in the dissolution of the Trust. The net proceeds of any such sale will be distributed to the Trust unitholders. Unless sooner terminated, the Trust will begin to liquidate on the Termination Date. The Trust unitholders will not be entitled to receive any proceeds from the sale of production from the Underlying Properties following such date. The Term Royalty Interests will automatically revert to Greylock at the Termination Date, while the Perpetual Royalty Interests will be sold and the proceeds will be distributed to the unitholders (including Greylock to the extent of any Trust units it owns) at the Termination Date or soon thereafter. Greylock has a right of first refusal to purchase the Perpetual Royalty Interests upon termination of the Trust.. 28. Table of Contents. If the Trust cannot meet the New York Stock Exchange continued listing requirements, the NYSE may delist the common units.. The Trust's common units are currently listed on the NYSE. In the future, if the Trust is unable to meet the continued listing requirements of the NYSE - which require, among other things, that the average closing price of the common units remain at or above $1.00 over 30 consecutive trading days - the common units could be delisted if the Trust is unable to regain compliance. A delisting of our common units could negatively impact the Trust by, among other things, reducing the liquidity and market price of the common units and reducing the number of investors willing to hold or acquire the common units.. The Private Investors may sell additional Trust units, and such sales could have an adverse effect on the trading price of the common units.. As of December 31, 2017, Greylock held no common units, while select Private Investors held common units. In connection with the Trust's formation, the Trust and the Private Investors entered into a registration rights agreement, pursuant to which the Trust in 2012 filed a registration statement on Form S-3, to facilitate sales of common units by such holders. If the Private Investors were to sell or offer to sell a substantial number of common units, the market price of the units could be adversely affected.. Conflicts of interest could arise between Greylock and the Trust unitholders.. As a working interest owner in the Underlying Properties, Greylock could have interests that conflict with the interests of the Trust and the Trust unitholders. For example:. <U+0095> Greylock's interests may conflict with those of the Trust and the Trust unitholders in situations involving the development, maintenance, operation or abandonment of the Underlying Properties. Additionally, Greylock may abandon a well which is uneconomic to it while such well is still generating revenue for the Trust unitholders. Greylock may make decisions with respect to expenditures and decisions to allocate resources on projects in other areas that adversely affect the Underlying Properties, including reducing expenditures on these properties, which could cause gas production to decline at a faster rate and thereby result in lower cash distributions by the Trust in the future. In making such decisions, Greylock is required under the applicable conveyance to act as a reasonably prudent operator in the AMI under the same or similar circumstances as it would act if it were acting with respect to its own properties, disregarding the existence of the royalty interests as burdens affecting such property.    <U+0095> Greylock may sell some or all of the Underlying Properties. Any such sale may not be in the best interests of the Trust unitholders. Any purchaser may lack Greylock's experience in the Marcellus Shale or its creditworthiness.    <U+0095> Greylock may, without the consent of the Trust unitholders, require the Trust to release Royalty Interests with an aggregate value to the Trust of up to $5.0 million during any 12-month period. These releases will be made only in connection with the sale by Greylock of the Underlying Properties and are conditioned upon the Trust receiving an amount equal to the fair value to the Trust of such Royalty Interests. See \"Sale and Abandonment of Underlying Properties\" in Item 2 of this report.     <U+0095> Greylock may in its discretion increase its Post-Production Services Fee for post-production costs on the Greene County Gathering System to the extent necessary to recover certain capital expenditures on the Greene County Gathering System.    <U+0095> Greylock is permitted under the conveyance agreements creating the Royalty Interests to enter into new processing and transportation contracts without obtaining bids from or otherwise. 29. Table of Contents. negotiating with any independent third parties, and Greylock will deduct from the Trust's proceeds any charges under such contracts attributable to production from the Trust properties. Provisions in the conveyance agreements, however, require that charges under future contracts with affiliates of Greylock relating to processing or transportation of natural gas must be comparable to charges prevailing in the area for similar services.   <U+0095> Greylock can purchase or sell Trust units without considering the effects the transaction may have on common unit prices or on the Trust itself. Additionally, Greylock can vote its Trust units in its sole discretion.. The Trust is administered by a Trustee who cannot be replaced except at a special meeting of Trust unitholders.. The business and affairs of the Trust are administered by the Trustee. Voting rights of Trust unitholders are more limited than those of stockholders of most public corporations. For example, there is no requirement for annual meetings of Trust unitholders or for an annual or other periodic re-election of the Trustee. The Trust Agreement provides that the Trustee may only be removed and replaced by the holders of a majority of the outstanding Trust units, including Trust units held by Greylock, if any, at a special meeting of Trust unitholders called by either the Trustee or the holders of not less than 10% of the outstanding Trust units. As a result, it will be difficult for public unitholders to remove or replace the Trustee without the cooperation of Greylock (if at the time it holds a significant percentage of total Trust units) or other holders of a substantial percentage of the outstanding Trust units.. Trust unitholders have limited ability to enforce provisions of the Royalty Interests, and Greylock's liability to the Trust is limited.. The Trust Agreement permits the Trustee and the Trust to sue Greylock or any other future owner of the Underlying Properties to enforce the terms of the conveyances creating the PDP and PUD Royalty Interests. If the Trustee does not take appropriate action to enforce provisions of these conveyances, Trust unitholders' recourse would be limited to bringing a lawsuit against the Trustee to compel the Trustee to take specified actions. The Trust Agreement expressly limits a Trust unitholder's ability to directly sue Greylock or any other third party other than the Trustee. As a result, Trust unitholders will not be able to sue Greylock or any future owner of the Underlying Properties to enforce these rights. Furthermore, the Royalty Interest conveyances provide that, except as set forth in the conveyances, Greylock is not liable to the Trust for the manner in which it performs its duties in operating the Underlying Properties as long as it acts in good faith.. Courts outside of Delaware may not recognize the limited liability of the Trust unitholders provided under Delaware law.. Under the Delaware Statutory Trust Act, Trust unitholders will be entitled to the same limitation of personal liability extended to stockholders of corporations under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. Nevertheless, courts in jurisdictions outside of Delaware may not give effect to such limitation.. Greylock is subject to complex federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting its operations or expose Greylock to significant liabilities.. Greylock's natural gas exploration, production and transportation operations are subject to complex and stringent laws and regulations. In order to conduct its operations in compliance with these laws and regulations, Greylock must obtain and maintain numerous permits, drilling bonds, approvals and certificates from various federal, state and local governmental authorities and engage in extensive. 30. Table of Contents. reporting. Greylock may incur substantial costs in order to maintain compliance with these existing laws and regulations. Further, in light of the explosion and fire on the drilling rig Deepwater Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico, as well as recent incidents involving the release of natural gas and fluids as a result of drilling activities in the Marcellus Shale, there has been a variety of regulatory initiatives at the federal and state level to restrict oil and gas drilling operations in certain locations. Any increased regulation or suspension of oil and gas exploration and production, or revision or reinterpretation of existing laws and regulations, that arises out of these incidents or otherwise could result in delays and higher operating costs. Such costs or significant delays could have a material adverse effect on Greylock's business, financial condition and results of operations. Greylock must also comply with laws and regulations prohibiting fraud and market manipulations in energy markets. To the extent Greylock is a shipper on interstate pipelines, it must comply with the tariffs of such pipelines and with federal policies related to the use of interstate capacity.. Laws and regulations governing natural gas exploration and production may also affect production levels. Greylock is required to comply with federal and state laws and regulations governing conservation matters, including provisions related to the unitization or pooling of the natural gas properties; the establishment of maximum rates of production from natural gas wells; the spacing of wells; the plugging and abandonment of wells; and removal of related production equipment. These and other laws and regulations can limit the amount of natural gas Greylock can produce from its wells, limit the number of wells it can drill, or limit the locations at which it can conduct drilling operations, which in turn could negatively impact Trust distributions, estimated and actual future net revenues to the Trust and estimates of reserves attributable to the Trust's interests.. Pennsylvania historically has not imposed a severance tax on the production of natural gas. However, over the past few years there have been several proposals to initiate one. Most recently, in February 2016 the Governor of Pennsylvania proposed a flat 6.5 percent severance tax on the value of natural gas at the wellhead. Under the Governor's current proposal, the amount paid in impact fees paid on unconventional gas wells could be taken as a credit against the severance tax. Prior proposals included severance taxes of 5 percent, later reduced to 3.5 percent, plus 4.7 cents per thousand cubic feet of natural gas extracted. Any such severance tax, if adopted, would be a cost that would be borne by the Trust and could materially reduce distributions to unitholders.. New laws or regulations, or changes to existing laws or regulations, may unfavorably impact Greylock, could result in increased operating costs and have a material adverse effect on Greylock's financial condition and results of operations. For example, Congress has previously considered legislation that, if adopted in its proposed form, would subject companies involved in natural gas and oil exploration and production activities to, among other items the elimination of most U.S. federal tax incentives and deductions available to natural gas exploration and production activities, and the prohibition or additional regulation of private energy commodity derivative and hedging activities. Additionally, the Pennsylvania Environmental Quality Board has proposed amendments to Pennsylvania's oil and gas regulations to update existing requirements regarding the drilling, casing, cementing, testing, monitoring and plugging of oil and gas wells, and the protection of water supplies, including reporting the list of chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing or to stimulate the well.. Additionally, state and federal regulatory authorities may expand or alter applicable pipeline safety laws and regulations, compliance with which may require increased capital costs on the part of Greylock and third party downstream natural gas transporters. These and other potential regulations could increase Greylock's operating costs, reduce Greylock's liquidity, delay Greylock's operations, increase direct and third party post production costs associated with the Trust's interests or otherwise alter the way Greylock conducts its business, which could have a material adverse effect on Greylock's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and which could reduce cash received by or available for distribution, including any amounts paid by Greylock for transportation on downstream interstate pipelines.. 31. Table of Contents. The ability of Greylock to satisfy its obligations to the Trust depends on the financial position of Greylock, and in the event of a default by Greylock in its obligations to the Trust, or in the event of Greylock's bankruptcy, it would be expensive and time-consuming for the Trust to exercise its remedies.. Greylock is a privately held, independent energy company engaged in the exploration, development, production, gathering and aggregation and sale of natural gas and oil, primarily in the Appalachian Basin, Gulf Coast and Rocky Mountain regions in the United States. Greylock is also the operator of all of the Producing Wells and all of the PUD Wells. The conveyances also provide that Greylock is obligated to market, or cause to be marketed, the natural gas production related to the Underlying Properties. Due to the Trust's reliance on Greylock to fulfill these numerous obligations, the value of the Royalty Interests and its ultimate cash available for distribution will be highly dependent on Greylock's performance. Greylock is not a reporting company and does not file periodic reports with the SEC. Therefore, Trust unitholders do not have access to financial information of Greylock.. The ability of Greylock to perform its obligations to the Trust will depend on Greylock's future financial condition and economic performance and access to capital, which in turn will depend upon the supply and demand for natural gas and oil, prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond the control of Greylock.. Due to uncertainty under Pennsylvania law, the Royalty Interests conveyed by Greylock to the Trust might not be treated as real property interests, or as interests in hydrocarbons in place or to be produced. As a result, the Royalty Interests might be treated as unsecured claims of the Trust against Greylock in the event of Greylock's bankruptcy. The Royalty Interest Lien is intended to provide security to the Trust should the Royalty Interests be subject to such a challenge. If the PDP Royalty Interest or the PUD Royalty Interest were determined not to be a real property interest owned by the Trust, the Trust's remedy would be to foreclose on the Trust's Royalty Interest Lien to cause the Trust to receive a volume of natural gas production from the Trust properties calculated in accordance with the provisions of the conveyances of the Royalty Interests to the Trust. Foreclosure on the Royalty Interest Lien is exercisable only following a bankruptcy filing of Greylock or its successor and based on an uncured payment default occurring under the conveyances of the Royalty Interests to the Trust existing at the time of, or occurring after, such bankruptcy filing. The process of foreclosing to enforce the Royalty Interest Lien would be expensive and time-consuming, and the resulting delays and expenses could reduce Trust distributions substantially or eliminate them for an unpredictable period of time.. The proceeds of the Royalty Interests may be commingled, for a period of time, with proceeds of Greylock's retained interest. The Trust may not have adequate facts to trace its entitlement to funds in the commingled pool of funds and that other persons may, in asserting claims against Greylock's retained interest, be able to assert claims to the proceeds that should be delivered to the Trust. In addition, during a bankruptcy of Greylock, payments of the royalties may be delayed or deferred; in addition, the obligation to pay royalties may be disaffirmed or cancelled. In either situation, the Trust may need to look to the Royalty Interest Lien to replace its rights under the Royalty Interests. During the pendency of any bankruptcy proceedings involving Greylock, the Trust's ability to foreclose on the Royalty Interest Lien, and the ability to collect cash payments from customers being held in Greylock's accounts that are attributable to production from the Trust properties, may be stayed by the bankruptcy court. Delay in realizing on the collateral for the Royalty Interest Lien is possible, and a bankruptcy court might not permit such foreclosure. The bankruptcy also might delay the execution of a new agreement with another driller or operator. If the Trust were to enter into a new agreement with a drilling or operating partner, the new partner might not achieve the same levels of production or sell natural gas at the same prices as Greylock was able to achieve.. 32. Table of Contents. The operations of Greylock are subject to environmental laws and regulations that may result in significant costs and liabilities.. The natural gas exploration and production operations of Greylock in the Marcellus Shale are subject to stringent and comprehensive federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the discharge, emission or release of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations may impose numerous obligations that are applicable to Greylock's operations including the acquisition of a permit before conducting drilling; water withdrawal or waste disposal operations; govern the amounts and types of substances that may be disposed or released into the environment; limit or prohibit construction or drilling activities in sensitive areas such as wetlands, wilderness areas or areas containing endangered or threatened species or their habitats; require investigatory and response actions to mitigate pollution conditions arising from Greylock's operations or attributable to former operations; and impose obligations to reclaim and abandon well sites, impoundments and pits. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil or criminal penalties; the imposition of investigatory or remedial obligations and the issuance of orders enjoining some or all of Greylock's operations in affected areas.. There is inherent risk of incurring significant environmental costs and liabilities in the performance of Greylock's operations due to its handling of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes, because of air emissions and wastewater discharges related to its operations, and as a result of historical industry operations and waste disposal practices. Under certain environmental laws and regulations, Greylock could be subject to joint and several strict liabilities for the removal or remediation of previously released materials or property contamination regardless of whether Greylock was responsible for the release or contamination or if the operations were not in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. Private parties, including the owners of properties upon which Greylock's wells are drilled and facilities where Greylock's petroleum hydrocarbons or wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance, as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage or to recover some or all of the costs of the removal or remediation of released materials. In addition, the risk of accidental spills or releases could expose Greylock to significant liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent or costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements could require Greylock to make significant expenditures to attain and maintain compliance and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on its results of operations, competitive position or financial condition. Greylock may not be able to recover some or any of these costs from insurance.. Climate change laws and regulations restricting emissions of \"greenhouse gases\" could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the natural gas that Greylock produces while the physical effects of climate change could disrupt Greylock's production and cause Greylock to incur significant costs in preparing for or responding to those effects.. In December 2009, the EPA published its findings that emissions of GHGs present a danger to public health and the environment. These findings allow the agency to adopt and implement regulations that would restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. Accordingly, the EPA has adopted regulations that could trigger permit review for GHG emissions from certain stationary sources. Those regulations were challenged in federal court and the Supreme Court has upheld the EPA's authority to regulate GHG emissions from stationary sources, concluding sources that trigger air permitting requirements based on their traditional criteria pollutant emissions must include a limit for GHGs in their permit. The EPA has also issued regulations that require the establishment and reporting of an inventory of GHG emissions from specified stationary sources, including certain onshore oil and natural gas exploration, development and production facilities. In. 33. Table of Contents. October 2015, the EPA finalized its \"Clean Power Plan\" regulations under Section 111(d) of the Clean Air Act to limit GHG emissions from existing power plants. Several states, trade groups and companies have challenged the legality of the EPA's Section 111(d) rule for existing power plants in federal court. On February 9, 2016, the Supreme Court granted an emergency stay preventing EPA from implementing the Clean Power Plan until the D.C. Circuit issues a decision on the legality of the rule and disposition of a writ of certiorari, to the extent such a writ is sought. President Trump has publicly stated that it is a top priority of his administration to eliminate the Clean Power Plan. The EPA has finalized regulations that require control of methane emissions from new sources in the oil and gas industry and target ozone-forming pollutants from existing sources in areas that do not meet federal ozone health standards. The EPA has also issued several Information Collection Requests to industry seeking assistance in developing a program for regulating methane emissions from existing oil and gas sources as well.. At the state level, more than one-third of the states, either individually or through multi-state regional initiatives, already have begun implementing legal measures to control or reduce emissions of GHGs. The adoption and implementation of any regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of GHGs from, Greylock's equipment and operations could require Greylock to incur costs to reduce emissions of GHGs associated with its operations or could adversely affect demand for the natural gas that it produces. Finally, some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the Earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, and floods and other climatic events; if any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on Greylock's assets and operations.. Tax Risks Related to the Trust's Common Units. The Trust's tax treatment depends on its status as a partnership for United States federal income tax purposes. At the inception of the Trust, the Trust received an opinion from tax counsel that the Trust will be treated as a partnership for United States federal income tax purposes. If the Internal Revenue Service were to treat the Trust as a corporation for United States federal income tax purposes, then its cash available for distribution to you would be substantially reduced.. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in the Trust units depends largely on the Trust being treated as a partnership for United States federal income tax purposes. At the inception of the Trust, Legacy ECA and the Trust received an opinion from tax counsel that the Trust would be treated as a partnership for United States federal income tax purposes. In order for the Trust to be treated as a partnership for United States federal income tax purposes, current law requires that 90% or more of our gross income for every taxable year consist of \"qualifying income,\" as defined in Section 7704 of the Internal Revenue Code. The Trust may not meet this requirement or current law may change so as to cause, in either event, the Trust to be treated as a corporation for United States federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject the Trust to taxation as an entity. Although the Trust does not believe based upon its current activities that it is so treated, a change in current law could cause it to be treated as a corporation for United States federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject it to taxation as an entity. The Trust has not requested, and does not plan to request, a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service, which we referred to as the IRS, on this or any other tax matter affecting it.. If the Trust was treated as a corporation for United States federal income tax purposes, it would pay United States federal income tax on its taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 21%, and would likely be required to pay state income tax. Distributions to you would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to you. Because a tax would be imposed upon the Trust as a corporation, its cash available for distribution to you would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of the Trust as a. 34. Table of Contents. corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to you, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of the Trust units.. The Trust Agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects the Trust to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects it to entity-level taxation for United States federal income tax purposes, the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on the Trust.. If the Trust were subjected to a material amount of additional entity-level taxation by Pennsylvania or any other states, the Trust's cash available for distribution to you would be reduced.. The Trust was historically required to pay Pennsylvania franchise tax on its capital stock value, as determined pursuant to the statute and apportioned to Pennsylvania. The tax rate of 0.045% was completely phased out effective January 1, 2016, though it could be readopted by the General Assembly in its annual budget process. Changes in current state law may subject the Trust to additional entity-level taxation by Pennsylvania or other states. Because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. Imposition of any additional taxes on the Trust may substantially reduce the cash available for distribution to you and, therefore, negatively impact the value of an investment in the Trust units.. If enacted, severance taxes in Pennsylvania could materially increase the applicable taxes that are borne by the Trust.. Although Pennsylvania historically has not imposed a severance tax on the production of natural gas, in February 2016 the Governor of Pennsylvania proposed a flat 6.5 percent severance tax on the value of natural gas at the wellhead. Under the Governor's current proposal, the amount paid in impact fees paid on unconventional gas wells could be taken as a credit against the severance tax. Prior proposals included severance taxes of 5 percent, later reduced to 3.5 percent, plus 4.7 cents per thousand cubic feet of natural gas extracted. Any such severance tax, if adopted, would be a cost that would be borne by the Trust and could materially reduce distributions to unitholders.. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our Trust units could be affected by recent and potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis.. The current United States federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including the Trust, or an investment in the Trust units, may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. In the past, Congress has considered substantive changes to the existing United States federal income tax laws that affect certain publicly traded partnerships. Any modification to the United States federal income tax laws or interpretations thereof could cause the Trust to be taxed as a corporation or make it difficult or impossible to meet the requirements for the Trust to be treated as a partnership for United States federal income tax purposes, affect or cause us to change our business activities, affect the tax considerations of an investment in the Trust, change the character or treatment of portions of the Trust income and adversely affect an investment in the Trust's units. Moreover, any modification to the United States federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively. Any potential change in law or interpretation thereof could negatively impact the value of an investment in the Trust units.. Under current law for the taxable year ending December 31, 2017, the highest marginal United States federal income tax rate applicable to ordinary income of individuals is 39.6% and the highest marginal United States federal income tax rate applicable to long-term capital gains (generally, capital. 35. Table of Contents. gains on certain assets held for more than 12 months) of individuals is 20%. These rates are subject to change by new legislation at any time.. In addition, a 3.8% Medicare tax is imposed on certain net investment income from a variety of sources earned by individuals. For these purposes, net investment income generally includes a Trust unitholder's allocable share of the Trust income and gain realized by a Trust unitholder from a sale of the Trust units. The tax will be imposed on the lesser of (i) the Trust unitholder's net income from all investments, or (ii) the amount by which the Trust unitholder's adjusted gross income exceeds $250,000 (if the Trust unitholder is married and filing jointly) or $200,000 (if the Trust unitholder is unmarried).. Recently enacted federal legislation applicable to the Trust for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 alters the procedures for auditing large partnerships and also alters the procedures for assessing and collecting income taxes due (including applicable penalties and interest) as a result of an audit. Unless the Trust is eligible to (and chooses to) elect to issue revised Schedules K-1 to our partners with respect to an audited and adjusted return, the IRS may assess and collect income taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) directly from the Trust in the year in which the audit is completed under the new rules. If the Trust is required to pay income taxes, penalties and interest as the result of audit adjustments, cash available for distribution to Trust unitholders may be substantially reduced. In addition, because payment would be due for the taxable year in which the audit is completed, Trust unitholders during that taxable year would bear the expense of the adjustment even if they were not Trust unitholders during the audited taxable year.. The Trust prorates items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of the Trust units each month based upon the ownership of the Trust units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred.. The Trust prorates items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of the Trust units each month based upon the ownership of the Trust units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations, and, accordingly, the Trust's counsel was unable to opine as to the validity of this method. If the IRS were to challenge this method or new Treasury Regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among the Trust unitholders. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions the Trust takes, the market for the Trust units may be adversely impacted, the cost of any IRS contest will reduce the Trust's cash available for distribution to you and items of income, gain, loss and deduction may be reallocated among Trust unitholders.. If the IRS contests the United States federal income tax positions the Trust takes, the market for the Trust units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce the Trust's cash available for distribution to you.. The Trust has not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to its treatment as a partnership for United States federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting the Trust. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the conclusions of the Trust's counsel expressed in the Prospectus or from the positions the Trust takes. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to attempt to sustain some or all of the conclusions of the Trust's counsel or the positions the Trust takes. A court may not agree with some or all of the conclusions of the Trust's counsel or positions the Trust takes. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for the Trust units and the price at which they trade. In addition, the Trust's costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by the Trust unitholders because the costs will reduce the Trust's cash available for distribution.. 36. Table of Contents. You will be required to pay taxes on your share of the Trust's income even if you do not receive any cash distributions from the Trust.. Because the Trust unitholders will be treated as partners to whom the Trust will allocate taxable income which could be different in amount than the cash the Trust distributes, you will be required to pay any United States federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on your share of the Trust's taxable income even if you receive no cash distributions from the Trust. You may not receive cash distributions from the Trust equal to your share of the Trust's taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that result from that income.. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of the Trust units could be more or less than expected.. If you sell your Trust units, you will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and your tax basis in those Trust units. Because distributions in excess of your allocable share of the Trust's net taxable income decrease your tax basis in your Trust units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the Trust units you sell will, in effect, become taxable income to you if you sell such Trust units at a price greater than your tax basis in those Trust units, even if the price you receive is less than your original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depletion recapture.. Tax-exempt entities and non-United States persons face unique tax issues from owning the Trust units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them.. Investment in Trust units by tax-exempt entities, such as individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), and non-United States persons raises issues unique to them. For example, some of the Trust income allocated to organizations exempt from United States federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, may be unrelated business taxable income which would be taxable to them. Distributions to non-United States persons may be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-United States persons may be required to file United States federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of the Trust's taxable income.. The Trust will treat each purchaser of Trust units as having the same economic attributes without regard to the actual Trust units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the Trust units.. Due to a number of factors, including the Trust's inability to match transferors and transferees of Trust units, the Trust will adopt positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to you. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from your sale of Trust units and could have a negative impact on the value of the Trust units or result in audit adjustments to your tax returns.. A Trust unitholder whose Trust units are loaned to a \"short seller\" to cover a short sale of Trust units may be considered as having disposed of those Trust units. If so, he would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those Trust units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition.. Because a Trust unitholder whose Trust units are loaned to a \"short seller\" to cover a short sale of Trust units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned Trust units, the Trust unitholder may no longer be treated for United States federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those Trust units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of the Trust's. 37. Table of Contents. income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those Trust units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those Trust units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. The Trust's counsel has not rendered an opinion regarding the treatment of a unitholder where Trust units are loaned to a short seller to cover a short sale of Trust units; therefore, Trust unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from loaning their Trust units.. The Trust will adopt certain valuation methodologies that may affect the income, gain, loss and deduction allocable to the Trust unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the Trust units.. The United States federal income tax consequences of the ownership and disposition of Trust units will depend in part on the Trust's estimates of the relative fair market values, and the initial tax bases of the Trust's assets. Although the Trust may from time to time consult with professional appraisers regarding valuation matters, the Trust will make many of the relative fair market value estimates itself. These estimates and determinations of basis are subject to challenge and will not be binding on the IRS or the courts. If the estimates of fair market value or basis are later found to be incorrect, the character and amount of items of income, gain, loss or deductions previously reported by Trust unitholders might change, and Trust unitholders might be required to adjust their tax liability for prior years and incur interest and penalties with respect to those adjustments. It also could affect the amount of gain from unitholders' sale of Trust units and could have a negative impact on the value of the Trust units or result in audit adjustments to unitholders' tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions.. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of the Trust's capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of the Trust's partnership status for United States federal income tax purposes.. The Trust will be considered to have technically terminated for United States federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in its capital and profits within a twelve-month period. For purposes of determining whether the 50% threshold has been met, multiple sales of the same Trust unit within any twelve-month period will be counted only once. The Trust's termination would, among other things, result in the closing of its taxable year for all Trust unitholders, which would result in the Trust filing two tax returns (and the Trust unitholders could receive two Schedules K-1) for one calendar year. The IRS has previously announced a relief procedure whereby if a publicly traded partnership that has technically terminated requests and the IRS grants special relief, among other things, the partnership will be required to provide only a single Schedule K-1 to unitholders for the tax year in which the termination occurs. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a calendar year ending December 31, the closing of the Trust's taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of the Trust's taxable income being includable in his taxable income for the year of termination. A technical termination would not affect the Trust's classification as a partnership for United States federal income tax purposes, but instead, the Trust would be treated as a new partnership for tax purposes. If treated as a new partnership, the Trust must make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if the Trust is unable to determine that a technical termination occurred.. 38. Table of Contents. Certain United States federal income tax preferences currently available with respect to natural gas production may be eliminated as a result of future legislation.. In recent years, the U.S. government's budget proposals and other proposed legislation have included the elimination of certain key U.S. federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and natural gas exploration and production. If enacted into law, these proposals would eliminate certain tax preferences applicable to taxpayers engaged in the exploration or production of natural resources. These changes include, but are not limited to (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and natural gas properties, (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs, (iii) the elimination of the deduction for U.S. production activities and (iv) the increase in the amortization period from two years to seven years for geophysical costs paid or incurred in connection with the exploration for or development of, oil and natural gas within the U.S. It is unclear whether any such changes will be enacted or how soon any such changes would become effective. The passage of any legislation as a result of these proposals or any other similar changes in U.S. federal income tax laws could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations."
