[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. Set forth below are certain risk factors that could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. You should carefully read the following risk factors, together with the financial statements, related notes and other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our business, financial condition and operating results may suffer if any of the following risks are realized. If any of these risks or uncertainties occur, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you might lose all or part of your investment. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that contain risks and uncertainties. Please refer to the discussion of \"Forward-Looking Statements\" on page three of this Annual Report on Form 10-K in connection with your consideration of the risk factors and other important factors that may affect future results described below.. Risks Related to Our Business. We operate in a highly competitive industry, and if we are unable to address factors that may adversely affect our operating results, it could substantially impair our business.. The transportation services industry is highly competitive. We compete against other national non-asset based third-party logistics companies, as well as regional or niche freight brokerages, asset-based carriers offering brokerage and/or logistics services, wholesale intermodal transportation service providers and rail carriers. In addition, we may from time to time compete against carriers' internal sales forces or shippers' internal transportation departments. At times, we buy transportation services from, and sell to, our competitors. Historically, competition has created a downward pressure on freight rates and continuation of this rate pressure may adversely affect our revenue and income from operations.. In addition, a software platform and database similar to Optimizer could be created over time by a competitor with sufficient financial resources and comparable experience in the transportation services industry. If our competitors are able to offer comparable services, we could lose clients, and our market share and profit margin could decline. Our competitors may also establish cooperative relationships to increase their ability to address client needs. Increased competition may lead to revenue reductions, reduced profit margins or loss of market share, any one of which could harm our business.. A decrease in levels of excess capacity in the U.S. transportation services industry could have an adverse impact on our business.. We believe that, historically, the U.S. transportation services industry has experienced significant levels of excess capacity. Our business seeks to capitalize on imbalances between supply and demand in the transportation services industry by obtaining favorable pricing terms from carriers in our network through a competitive bid process. Reduced excess capacity in the transportation services industry generally, and in our carrier network specifically, could have an adverse impact on our ability to execute our business strategy and on our business results and growth prospects.. A decrease in the number of carriers participating in our network could adversely affect our business.. 8. Table of Contents. In 2017, we continued to enhance our sizable carrier network of motor, rail, air and ocean freight transportation providers. We expect to continue to rely on these carriers to fulfill our shipping orders in the future. However, these carriers are not contractually required to continue to accept orders from us. If shipping capacity tightens or the transportation industry experiences further consolidation among carriers, our ability to serve our clients on competitive terms could be significantly limited. In addition, we rely on price bids provided by our carriers to populate our database. If the number of our carriers decreases significantly, we may be unable to obtain sufficient pricing information to effectively utilize Optimizer, which could affect our ability to obtain favorable pricing for our clients.. If our carriers do not meet our needs or expectations, or those of our clients, our business could suffer.. The success of our business depends to a large extent on our relationships with our clients and our reputation for providing high-quality technology-enabled transportation and logistics services. We do not own or control the transportation assets that deliver our clients' freight, and we do not employ the people directly involved in delivering the freight. We rely on independent third parties to provide TL, LTL, small parcel, intermodal, domestic air, expedited and international carrier services and to report certain information to us, including information relating to delivery status and freight claims. This reliance could cause delays in providing our clients with important service data and in the financial reporting of certain events, including recognizing revenue and recording claims. If we are unable to secure sufficient transportation services to meet our commitments to our clients, our operating results could be adversely affected, and our clients could utilize the services of our competitors temporarily or permanently. Many of these risks are beyond our control and difficult to anticipate, including:. • changes in rates charged by transportation providers;. • supply shortages in the transportation industry, particularly among TL carriers;. • interruptions in service or stoppages in transportation as a result of labor disputes; and. • changes in regulations impacting transportation.. If any of the third parties we rely on do not meet our needs or expectations, or those of our clients, our professional reputation may be damaged and our business could suffer.. Higher carrier prices may result in decreased net revenue margin.. Carriers may charge higher prices if market conditions warrant, or to cover higher operating expenses. Our net revenues and income from operations may decrease if we are unable to correspondingly increase our pricing to our customers. Increased demand for TL services and pending changes in regulations may reduce available capacity and increase carrier pricing. Net revenue is a non-GAAP measure calculated as revenue minus transportation costs.. Changes in fuel prices may change carrier prices, and volatility in fuel prices may make it more difficult to pass through this cost to our clients, which may impair our operating results.. Fuel prices can be volatile and difficult to predict. Fuel prices have fluctuated significantly over the last three years. Our clients expect fuel savings to be passed along through lower prices. If carriers do not lower their prices to reflect declines in fuel costs, this could negatively impact our shipment volume, as our clients would seek other shipping options. This decrease in volume would negatively impact our gross profits and income from operations.. In the event of rising fuel prices, carriers can be expected to charge higher prices to cover higher operating expenses, and our gross profits and income from operations may decrease if we are unable to continue to pass through to our clients the full amount of these increased costs. Higher fuel costs could also cause material shifts in the percentage of our revenue by transportation mode, as our clients may elect to utilize alternative transportation modes. Any material shifts to transportation modes with respect to which we realize lower gross profit margins could impair our operating results.. Our obligation to pay our carriers is not contingent upon receipt of payment from our clients, and we extend credit to certain clients as part of our business model.. In most cases, we take full risk of credit loss for the transportation services we procure from carriers. Our obligation to pay our carriers is not contingent upon receipt of payment from our clients. If any of our key clients fail to pay for our services, our profitability would be negatively impacted.. We extend credit to certain clients in the ordinary course of business as part of our business model. By extending credit, we increase our exposure to uncollected receivables. A deterioration in the global or domestic economy could drive an increase in. 9. Table of Contents. business failures, downsizing and delinquencies, which could cause an increase in our credit risk. If we fail to monitor and manage effectively any increased credit risk, our immediate and long-term liquidity may be adversely affected.. We are reliant on technology to operate our business and our continued success is dependent on our systems continuing to provide the necessary support to service our customers effectively.. We rely heavily on Optimizer to track and store externally and internally generated market data, analyze the capabilities of our carrier network and recommend cost-effective carriers in the appropriate transportation mode. To keep pace with changing technologies and client demands, we must correctly interpret and address market trends and enhance the features and functionality of our Optimizer platform in response to these trends, which may lead to significant ongoing research and development costs. We may be unable to accurately determine the needs of our clients and the trends in the transportation services industry or to design and implement the appropriate features and functionality of our Optimizer platform in a timely and cost-effective manner, which could result in decreased demand for our services and a corresponding decrease in our revenue. Despite testing, we may be unable to detect defects in existing or new versions of our proprietary software, or errors may arise in our software. Any failure to identify and address such defects or errors could result in loss of revenue or market share, liability to clients or others, diversion of resources, injury to our reputation, and increased service and maintenance costs. Correction of such errors could prove to be impossible or very costly, and responding to resulting claims or liability could similarly involve substantial cost.. The success of our business depends upon our ability to deliver time-sensitive, up-to-date data and information. We rely on our Internet access, computer equipment, software applications, database storage facilities and other office equipment, which are mainly located in our Chicago headquarters. Our operations and those of our carriers and clients are vulnerable to interruption by fire, earthquake, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist attacks, wars, computer viruses, hackers, cyber-attacks, equipment failure, physical break-ins and other events beyond our control, including disasters affecting Chicago. We attempt to mitigate these risks through various means, including system backup and security measures, but our precautions will not protect against all potential problems. We maintain fully redundant off-site backup facilities for our Internet access, computer equipment, software applications, database storage and network equipment, but these facilities could be subject to the same interruptions that could affect our headquarters. If we suffer a database or network facility outage, our business could experience disruption, possibly resulting in reduced revenue and the loss of clients.. Our ability to deliver our services depends upon the capacity, reliability and security of services provided to us by our telecommunication service providers, our electronic delivery systems and the Internet. We have no control over the operation, quality or maintenance of these services or whether the vendors will improve their services or continue to provide services that are essential to our business. In addition, our telecommunication service providers may increase the prices at which they provide services, which would increase our costs. If our telecommunication service providers were to cease to provide essential services or to significantly increase their prices, we could be required to find alternative vendors for these services. With a limited number of vendors, we could experience significant delays in obtaining new or replacement services, which could significantly harm our reputation and could cause us to lose clients and revenue. Moreover, our ability to deliver information using the Internet may be impaired because of infrastructure failures, service outages at third-party Internet providers or increased government regulation. If disruptions, failures or slowdowns of our electronic delivery systems or the Internet occur, our ability to effectively provide technology-enabled transportation and supply chain management services and to serve our clients may be impaired.. Breaches in data security could adversely affect our business.. Failure to prevent or mitigate data loss, or system intrusions, from cyber-attacks or other security breaches could expose us, our vendors, or our customers to a risk of loss or misuse of such information, adversely affecting our operating results, or result in litigation or potential liability for our business. Likewise, data privacy breaches by employees or others accessing our systems may pose a risk that sensitive vendor or customer data may be exposed to unauthorized persons or to the public, adversely impacting our customer service, employee relationships and reputation. While we believe that we have taken appropriate security measures to protect our data and information technology systems, and to prevent data loss, our precautions may not protect against all potential breakdowns or breaches in our systems that could have an adverse affect on our business.. We have not registered any patents or trademarks on our proprietary technology to date, and our inability to protect our intellectual property rights may impair our competitive position.. Our failure to adequately protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights could harm our competitive position. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as license agreements and other contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. In addition, we attempt to protect our intellectual property and proprietary information by requiring all of our employees and independent contractors to enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements. To date, we have not pursued patent protection for our technology. We currently have six. 10. Table of Contents. registered trademarks to protect our brands. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights will be adequate or will prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating our rights, imitating or duplicating our technology, services or methodologies, including Optimizer, or using trademarks similar to ours. Should we need to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the rights of others, such litigation could be time-consuming and costly, and the result of any litigation is subject to uncertainty. In addition, Optimizer incorporates open source software components that are licensed to us under various public domain licenses. Although we believe that we have complied with our obligations under the various applicable licenses for the open source software that we use, there is little or no legal precedent governing the interpretation of many of the terms of these licenses, and the potential impact of such terms on our business is, therefore, difficult to predict.. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates, effectively integrate newly acquired businesses or achieve expected profitability from acquisitions.. Part of our growth strategy is to increase our revenue and the market regions that we serve through the acquisition of complementary businesses. There can be no assurance that suitable candidates for acquisitions can be identified or, if suitable candidates are identified, that acquisitions can be completed on acceptable terms, if at all. Even if suitable candidates are identified, any future acquisitions may entail a number of risks that could adversely affect our business and the market price of our common stock, including the integration of the acquired operations, diversion of management's attention, risks of entering new market regions in which we have limited experience, adverse short-term effects on our reported operating results, the potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses and risks associated with unanticipated liabilities.. We may use our common stock to pay for acquisitions. If the owners of potential acquisition candidates are not willing to receive our common stock in exchange for their businesses, our acquisition prospects could be limited. Future acquisitions could also result in accounting charges, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities and increased debt and contingent liabilities, including liabilities related to unknown or undisclosed circumstances, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and the market price of our common stock.. Our clients may terminate their relationships with us on short notice with limited or no penalties, and our clients are generally not obligated to spend a minimum amount with us.. Our Transactional clients, which accounted for 79.2% and 81.3% of our revenue in 2017 and 2016, respectively, use our services on a shipment-by-shipment basis rather than under long-term contracts. These clients have no obligation to continue using our services and may stop using them at any time without penalty or with only limited penalties. Our contracts with Managed Transportation clients typically have terms of one to three years and are subject to termination provisions negotiated on a contract-by-contract basis. If we fail to adhere to the terms of the contract, the client can terminate the relationship.  Managed Transportation contracts accounting for 5.8% and 4.9% of our total 2017 revenue are scheduled to expire (subject to possible renewal) in 2018 and 2019, respectively.. The volume and type of services we provide each client may vary from year to year and could be reduced if the client were to change its outsourcing or shipping strategy. Our Managed Transportation clients generally are not obligated to spend any particular amount with us, although our Managed Transportation contracts are typically exclusive with respect to point of origin or one or more modes of transportation, meaning that the client is obligated to use us if it ships from the point of origin or uses those modes. These contractual exclusivity provisions help ensure, but do not guarantee, we receive a significant portion of the amount that our Managed Transportation clients spend on transportation in the applicable mode or modes or from the applicable point of origin. In our experience, compliance with such provisions varies from client to client and over time. Our clients' failure to comply with these exclusivity provisions may adversely affect our revenue.. If a significant number of our Transactional or Managed Transportation clients elect to terminate or not renew their engagements with us, or if the shipping volume of a significant number of our clients decreases, our business, operating results and financial condition could suffer. If we are unable to renew our Managed Transportation contracts at favorable rates, our revenue may decline.. We have extensive selling and implementation cycles to secure a new Managed Transportation contract, which require significant investments of resources.. In the course of acquiring a Managed Transportation customer, we typically face extensive selling and implementation cycles to secure a new Managed Transportation contract, which requires significant investment of resources and time by both our clients and us. Before committing to use our services, potential Managed Transportation clients require us to spend time and resources educating them on the value of our services and assessing the feasibility of integrating our systems and processes with theirs. Our clients then evaluate our services before deciding whether to use them. Therefore, our Managed Transportation. 11. Table of Contents. selling cycle is subject to many risks and delays over which we have little control, including our clients' decisions to choose alternatives to our services and the timing of our clients' budget cycles and approval processes.. Implementing our Managed Transportation services, which can take from one to six months, involves a significant commitment of resources over an extended period of time from both our clients and us. Depending on the scope and complexity of the processes being implemented, these time periods may be significantly longer. Our current and future clients may not be willing or able to invest the time and resources necessary to implement our services, and we may fail to close sales with potential clients to which we have devoted significant time and resources. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, as we do not recognize significant revenue until after we have completed the implementation phase.. Our industry is subject to seasonal sales fluctuations. If our business experiences seasonality, it could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.. Our industry is subject to some degree of seasonal sales fluctuations as shipments generally are lower during and after the winter holiday season because many of our retail clients ship goods and stock inventories prior to the winter holiday season. If we were to experience lower than expected revenue during any such period, whether from a general decline in economic conditions or other factors beyond our control, our expenses may not be offset, which would have a disproportionately adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition for that period.. Our ability to appropriately staff and retain sales representatives and agents is important to our business.. Our ability to expand our business will depend, in part, on our ability to attract additional sales representatives and agents with established client relationships. Competition for qualified sales representatives and agents can be intense, and we may be unable to hire such persons. Any difficulties we experience in expanding the number of our sales representatives and agents could have a negative impact on our ability to expand our client base, increase our revenue and continue our growth.. In addition, we must retain our current sales representatives and agents and properly incentivize them to obtain new clients and maintain existing client relationships. If a significant number of our sales representatives and agents leave us, our revenue could be negatively impacted. We have entered into agreements with our sales representatives and agents that contain non-compete provisions to mitigate this risk, but we may need to litigate to enforce our rights under these agreements, which could be time-consuming, expensive and ineffective. A significant increase in the turnover rate among our current sales representatives and agents could also increase our recruiting costs and lead to a decline in the demand for our services.. We are subject to claims arising from our transportation operations.. We use the services of thousands of transportation companies and their drivers in connection with our transportation operations. From time to time, these drivers are involved in accidents, or goods carried by these drivers are lost or damaged and the carriers may not have adequate insurance coverage. Although these drivers are not our employees and all of these drivers are employees, or independent contractors, working for carriers, or are owner-operators, claims may be asserted against us for their actions or for our actions in retaining them. Claims against us may exceed the amount of our insurance coverage, or may not be covered by insurance at all. If a shipment is lost or damaged during the delivery process, a client may file a claim for the damaged shipment with us and we may bear the risk of recovering the claim amount from the carrier. If we are unable to recover all or any portion of the claim amount from the carrier, or the carrier's insurance, and to the extent each claim exceeds the amount which may be recovered from our own insurance, we will bear the financial loss. A material increase in the frequency or severity of accidents, claims for lost or damaged goods, liability claims or workers' compensation claims, or unfavorable resolutions of claims, could adversely affect our operating results. Significant increases in insurance costs or the inability to purchase insurance as a result of these claims could also reduce our profitability.. Our insurance coverage and self-insurance reserves may not cover future claims.. We maintain various insurance policies for employee health, worker's compensation, general liability, property damage and automobile liability. We use a combination of insurance and self-insurance policies for our employee health plans.. For policies under which we are responsible for losses, we record a liability that represents our estimated cost of claims incurred and unpaid as of the balance sheet date. Our estimated liability is not discounted and is based on a number of assumptions and factors, including historical trends, actuarial assumptions and economic conditions, and is closely monitored and adjusted when warranted by changing circumstances. Our history of claims experience is short and our significant growth rate could affect the accuracy of estimates based on historical experience. If a greater amount of claims occurs compared to what we estimated, or if medical costs exceed what we expected, our accrued liabilities might not be sufficient and we may be. 12. Table of Contents. required to record additional expense. In addition, unanticipated changes may produce materially different amounts of expense than reported under these programs, which could adversely impact our results of operations.. Our business depends on compliance with many government regulations.. International and domestic transportation of goods is subject to a number of governmental regulations, including licensing and financial security requirements, import and export regulations, security requirements, packaging regulations and notification requirements. These regulations and requirements are subject to change based on new legislation and regulatory initiatives, which could affect the economics of the transportation industry by requiring changes in operating practices or influencing the demand for, and the cost of providing, transportation services.. We are licensed by the U.S. Department of Transportation as a broker authorized to arrange for the transportation of general commodities by motor vehicle. We must comply with certain insurance and surety bond requirements to act in this capacity.. We are currently providing customs broker services through contracts with licensed customs brokers. We contract with indirect air carriers that have been approved by the TSA, and are required to comply with air security regulations imposed by the TSA. In addition, our ocean transportation business is subject to regulation by the FMC.. We may experience an increase in operating costs, such as security costs, as a result of governmental regulations that have been and will be adopted in response to criminal, terrorist and potential terrorist activities. No assurances can be given that we will be able to pass these increased costs on to our clients in the form of rate increases or surcharges.. From time to time, we arrange for the movement of hazardous materials at the request of our clients. As a result, we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations relating to the handling, transport and disposal of hazardous materials. If our clients or carriers are involved in a spill or other accident involving hazardous materials, or if we are found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties, response or remediation costs and civil and criminal liability, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, current and future national laws and multilateral agreements relating to carbon emissions and the effects of global warming could have a significant impact on the transportation sector, including the operations and profitability of our carriers, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Our ability to raise capital in the future may be limited, and our failure to raise capital when needed could prevent us from growing.. In the future, we may be required to raise capital through public, private or other financing arrangements. Such financing may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all, and our failure to raise capital when needed could harm our business. Additional equity financing may dilute the interests of our common stockholders, and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile.. Since our initial public offering in October 2009 through February 23, 2018, the closing sale price of our common stock as reported by the Nasdaq Global Select Market has ranged from a low of $10.04 on November 11, 2010 to a high of $34.14 on June 23, 2015.. Certain factors may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate, including:. • fluctuations in our quarterly financial results or the quarterly financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us;. • changes in market valuations of similar companies;. • success of competitors' products or services;. • changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of debt or equity securities;. • announcements by us, our competitors, our clients or our suppliers of significant products or services, contracts, acquisitions or strategic alliances;. 13. Table of Contents. • regulatory developments in the United States or foreign countries;. • litigation involving our company, our general industry or both;. • additions or departures of key personnel;. • investors' general perception of us;. • changes in general economic, industry and market conditions; and. • the impact of our common stock and convertible note repurchase program.. In addition, if the stock market experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, operating results or financial condition. If any of the foregoing occurs, it could cause our stock price to fall and may expose us to class action lawsuits that, even if unsuccessful, could be costly to defend and distracting to management. As a result, you could lose all or part of your investment.. Our quarterly results are difficult to predict and may vary from quarter to quarter, which may result in our failure to meet the expectations of investors and increased volatility of our stock price.. The degree to which our clients continue to use our services depends in part on the business activities of our clients and our ability to continue to meet their cost saving needs. A significant percentage of our revenue is subject to the discretion of our Transactional clients, who may stop using our services at any time. In addition, the transportation industry in which we operate is subject to some degree of seasonal sales fluctuation, as shipments generally are lower during and after the winter holiday season because many of our retail clients ship goods and stock inventories prior to the winter holiday season. Therefore, the number, size and profitability of shipments may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. As a result, our quarterly operating results are difficult to predict and may fall below the expectations of current or potential investors in future quarters, which could lead to a significant decline in the market price of our stock and volatility in our stock price.. We do not currently intend to pay dividends, which may limit the return on stockholder investment in us.. We currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future.. If our Board of Directors authorizes the issuance of preferred stock, holders of our common stock could be diluted and harmed.. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 2,500,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to establish the preferred stock's voting powers, preferences and other rights and qualifications without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect the voting power and dividend liquidation rights of the holders of common stock. In addition, the issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third-party to acquire, or discourage a third-party from acquiring, a majority of our outstanding voting stock or otherwise adversely affect the market price of our common stock. It is possible that we may need, or find it advantageous, to raise capital through the sale of preferred stock in the future.. We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to settle conversions of our 2.50% convertible notes due 2020 (the \"Notes\") or to repurchase the Notes upon a fundamental change, and our future debt may contain limitations on our ability to pay cash upon conversion or repurchase of the Notes.. Holders of our Notes have the right to require us to repurchase their Notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change at a fundamental change repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. In addition, upon conversion of our Notes, unless we elect to deliver solely shares of our common stock to settle such conversion (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional share), we will be required to make cash payments in respect of the Notes being converted. However, we may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing at the time we are required to make repurchases of Notes surrendered therefor or Notes being converted. In addition, our ability to repurchase the Notes or to pay cash upon conversions of the Notes may be limited by law, by regulatory authority or by agreements governing our future indebtedness. Our failure to repurchase Notes at a time when the repurchase is required by the related indenture or to pay any cash payable on future conversions of the Notes as required by the related indenture would constitute a default under such indenture. A default under the indenture or the fundamental change itself could also lead to a default under agreements governing our current and future indebtedness. If the repayment of the related indebtedness were to be accelerated after any applicable notice or grace periods, we may not have sufficient funds to repay the indebtedness and repurchase the Notes or make cash payments upon conversions thereof.. 14. Table of Contents. The conditional conversion feature of the Notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. In the event certain conversion features of the Notes are triggered, holders of the Notes will be entitled to convert the Notes at any time during specified periods at their option. If one or more holders elect to convert their Notes, unless we elect to satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering solely shares of our common stock (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional share), we would be required to settle a portion or all of our conversion obligation through the payment of cash, which could adversely affect our liquidity. In addition, even if holders do not elect to convert their Notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the Notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which would result in a material reduction of our net working capital.. The fundamental change repurchase feature of the Notes may delay or prevent an otherwise beneficial attempt to takeover our Company.. The terms of the Notes require us to repurchase the Notes in the event of a fundamental change. A takeover of our Company would trigger options by the respective holders of the applicable Notes to require us to repurchase such Notes. This may have the effect of delaying or preventing a takeover of our Company that would otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders."
