[1] "Item 1A.  RISK FACTORS. Our business involves a high degree of risk. If any of the following risks, or any risk described elsewhere in this Annual Report, actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer. Additional risks not presently known to us or which we currently consider immaterial also may adversely affect our company.. Risks Related to Our Business. Natural gas, NGLs and oil prices have been volatile and have declined from recent historical highs. If commodity prices remain depressed for a lengthy period of time or experience a further substantial or extended decline, our business, financial condition or results of operations and our ability to meet our capital expenditure obligations and financial commitments may be adversely affected.. The prices we receive for our natural gas, NGLs and oil production heavily influence our revenue, operating results profitability, access to capital, future rate of growth and carrying value of our properties. Natural gas, NGLs and oil are commodities, and therefore, their prices are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand. Historically, the commodities markets have been volatile, and these markets will likely continue to be volatile in the future. The prices we receive for our production, and the levels of our production, depend on numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following:. •  worldwide and regional economic conditions impacting the global supply of and demand for natural gas, NGLs and oil;. •  the price and quantity of imports of foreign natural gas, including liquefied natural gas, foreign oil and refined products;. •  the price and quantity of exported domestic crude oil, natural gas, including liquefied natural gas, NGLs and refined products;. •  political conditions in or affecting other producing countries, including conflicts in the Middle East, Africa, South America and Russia;. •  the level of global exploration and production;. •  the level of global inventories;. •  prevailing prices on local price indexes in the areas in which we operate and expectations about future commodity prices;. •  the actions of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries;. •  the proximity, capacity, cost and availability of gathering and transportation facilities, and other factors that result in differentials to benchmark prices;. •  the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and transporting reserves;. •  speculative trading in natural gas and crude oil derivative contracts;. •  risks associated with operating drilling rigs;. •  increased end-user conservation or conversion of alternative fuels;. •  the price and availability of competitors' supplies of natural gas, NGLs, oil and alternative fuels;. •  localized and global supply and demand fundamentals and transportation availability;. •  adverse or severe weather conditions and other natural disasters;. •  technological advances affecting energy consumption and production; and. •  domestic, local and foreign governmental regulation and taxes.. 22. In addition, substantially all of our natural gas production and oil production is sold to purchasers under contracts with market-based prices based on NYMEX Henry Hub prices and WTI prices, respectively. The actual prices realized from the sale of natural gas and oil differ from the quoted NYMEX Henry Hub and WTI prices as a result of location differentials. Location differentials to NYMEX Henry Hub and WTI prices, also known as basis differential, result from variances in regional natural gas and oil prices as compared to NYMEX Henry Hub and WTI prices due to regional supply and demand factors. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, differentials to NYMEX Henry Hub and WTI prices, which may be material and could reduce the price we receive for these products relative to these benchmarks.. Lower commodity prices and negative increases in our differentials have reduced, and we expect will continue to reduce our cash flows and borrowing ability. We may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, or at all, which could lead to a decline in our reserves as existing reserves are depleted.  Lower commodity prices and negative differentials have also caused a significant portion of our development and exploration projects to become uneconomic, which may result in our having to make significant downward adjustments to our reserves.  As a result, if commodity prices continue to remain depressed for a lengthy period of time or experience a further substantial or extended decline, or if our negative differentials increase, our future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or ability to finance planned capital expenditures may be materially adversely affected.. Commodity prices have declined substantially from historic highs and may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. If commodity prices continue to remain depressed, we may be required to write down the value of our oil and natural gas properties, some of our undeveloped locations may no longer be economically viable and the value of our estimated proved reserves could be reduced materially.. During the eight years prior to December 31, 2017, natural gas prices at Henry Hub have ranged from a high of $8.15 per MMBtu in 2014 to a low of $1.49 per MMBtu in 2016. On December 31, 2017, the Henry Hub spot market price of natural gas was $3.69 per MMBtu. The reduction in prices has been caused by many factors, including increases in natural gas production and reserves from unconventional (shale) reservoirs, without an offsetting increase in demand. In addition, oil prices have declined significantly since the second half of 2014. The price of WTI crude oil was $60.46 per barrel on December 31, 2017, which is a significant decline from $106.07 per barrel on June 30, 2014. This environment could cause the commodity prices for oil and natural gas to remain at currently depressed levels or to fall to lower levels. If commodity prices remain depressed for lengthy periods, we may be required to write down the value of our oil and natural gas properties, and some of our undeveloped locations may no longer be economically viable.  For example, for the year ended December 31, 2017, we recorded an impairment charge on certain oil and gas properties located in Ohio of $28.3 million for unproved properties, primarily attributable to lower commodity prices, and we have recorded impairment charges in prior years for similar reasons. In addition, sustained low commodity prices will negatively impact the value of our estimated proved reserves, which will negatively affect the borrowing base under our revolving credit facility and reduce the amounts of cash we would otherwise have available to pay expenses and service any indebtedness that we may incur. In such a case, we may be required to sell assets or raise capital by issuing additional debt or equity in order pay expenses and service indebtedness. Furthermore, the value of our assets, if sold, may not be sufficient to pay our expenses or service our indebtedness.. If commodity prices decrease to a level such that our future undiscounted cash flows from our properties are less than their carrying value for a significant period of time, we will be required to take write-downs of the carrying values of our properties.. Accounting rules require that we periodically review the carrying value of our properties for possible impairment. For example, for the year ended December 31, 2017, we recorded an impairment charge on certain oil and gas properties located in Ohio of $28.3 million for unproved properties, primarily attributable to lower commodity prices, and we have recorded impairment charges in prior years for similar reasons. Based on specific market factors and circumstances at the time of prospective impairment reviews, and the continuing evaluation of development plans, production data, economics and other factors, we may be required to further write down the carrying value of our properties. A write-down constitutes a non-cash charge to earnings. We may incur additional impairment charges in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the periods in which such charges are taken.. 23. If commodity prices do not improve or worsen or if we are unable to increase our liquidity, we could experience ratings downgrades.. If commodity prices do not improve or worsen or if we are unable to increase our liquidity, we could experience ratings downgrades. For example, in January 2016, Moody's downgraded our corporate family credit rating and the rating of our 8.875% senior unsecured notes due 2023 primarily due to the effect of high leverage, low natural gas prices and significant production curtailments on our ability to generate cash flow from operations. These ratings were subsequently upgraded by Moody's in July 2017. In the event of any future downgrade, certain of our service providers, including our pipeline providers, may require us to post collateral or provide other assurances of our ability to perform our obligations under our contracts with such providers, which would negatively affect our liquidity and the borrowing base under our revolving credit facility and, in turn, increase the risk of additional downgrades.. Our development and exploration projects require substantial capital expenditures. We may be unable to obtain required capital or financing on satisfactory terms, or at all, which could lead to a decline in our oil and natural gas reserves.. The oil and natural gas industry is capital intensive. We have made, and if commodity prices rebound, expect to continue to make, substantial capital expenditures for the development and acquisition of oil and natural gas reserves. We expect to fund our capital expenditures in 2018 and subsequent to 2018 with cash on hand, cash generated by our operations and financing activities, which may include borrowings under our revolving credit facility, proceeds from non-core asset sales, proceeds from our drilling joint venture, and issuances of debt or equity. If we do not have sufficient borrowing availability under our revolving credit facility due to the current commodity price environment or otherwise, we may seek alternate debt or equity financing options (including, subject to compliance with our debt agreements, the issuance of first lien notes or other priority lien obligations), to sell assets or to further reduce our capital expenditures. The actual amount and timing of our future capital expenditures may differ materially from our estimates as a result of, among other things, natural gas, NGLs and oil prices and differentials, actual drilling results, the availability of drilling rigs and other services and equipment, and regulatory, technological and competitive developments. A reduction in realized natural gas, NGLs or oil prices from current levels has resulted in a decrease in our actual capital expenditures, which have negatively impacted, and may continue to negatively impact, our ability to grow production. Our financing needs may require us to alter or increase our capitalization substantially through the issuance of debt or equity securities or the sale of assets. The issuance of additional indebtedness would require that a portion of our cash flows from operations be used for the payment of interest and principal on our indebtedness, thereby reducing our ability to use cash flows from operations to fund working capital, capital expenditures and acquisitions.. Our cash flows from operations and access to capital are subject to a number of variables, including, without limitation, the following:. •  our proved reserves;. •  the volumes and types of hydrocarbons we are able to produce from existing and future wells;. •  our access to, and the cost of accessing, end markets for our production;. •  the prices at which our production is sold;. •  our ability to acquire, locate and develop new reserves;. •  the levels of our operating expenses; and. •  our ability to borrow under our revolving credit facility and issue additional debt and equity securities.. If our revenues or the borrowing base under our revolving credit facility decrease as a result of lower natural gas, NGLs or oil prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations at current levels. If additional capital is needed, we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If our cash on hand, cash flows generated by our operations and available borrowings under our revolving credit facility are insufficient to meet our capital requirements, the failure to obtain additional financing could result in a further curtailment of our operations. 24. relating to development of our properties, which in turn could lead to a decline in our reserves and production, and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in laws or government regulations regarding hydraulic fracturing could increase our costs of doing business, limit the areas in which we can operate and reduce our oil and natural gas production, which could adversely impact our business.. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of natural gas and/or oil from dense subsurface rock formations. Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand or alternative proppant and additives under pressure into target geological formations to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. We regularly use hydraulic fracturing as part of our operations. Presently, hydraulic fracturing is regulated primarily at the state level, typically by state oil and natural gas commissions and similar agencies. However, with increased public concern regarding the potential for hydraulic fracturing to adversely affect drinking water supplies or other environmental impacts, proposals have been made, and in many cases finalized, to enact federal, state and local legislation and regulations that would increase, or have increased, the regulatory burden imposed on hydraulic fracturing. For example, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (the \"EPA\") issued regulations to control air emissions from oil and natural gas production and natural gas processing operations, then proposed and finalized additional air emissions regulations from oil and natural gas production and natural gas processing operations, completed a multi-year study examining the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources, established standards for wastewater discharges from oil and gas extraction activities and released an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking to solicit public comment on potential chemical disclosure requirements. The U.S. Congress continues to consider amending the Safe Drinking Water Act to remove the exemption for hydraulic fracturing activities and to require disclosure of additives constituents of fluids used in the fracturing process. The Department of the Interior released final rules to regulate hydraulic fracturing activities on federal lands and to limit venting and flaring from production operations.  Although the hydraulic fracturing rules have been rescinded and the venting and flaring rule has been delayed, both are the subject of litigation that could result in such rules becoming effective and it is possible that replacement or similar rules will be proposed and finalized.  In addition, the United States has made commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions under the Paris Agreement, part of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, and President Obama and Prime Minister Trudeau of Canada announced a joint agreement to reduce methane emissions from existing oil and gas operations.  The Trump administration has since notified the United Nations of its intent to withdraw from the Paris Agreement, but under the terms of the agreement the U.S. will remain a party until approximately August 2020.. If new federal, state or local laws or regulations that significantly restrict hydraulic fracturing are adopted, such legal requirements could result in delays, eliminate certain drilling and injection activities and make it more difficult or costly for us to perform fracturing. Any such regulations limiting or prohibiting hydraulic fracturing could reduce our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities and, therefore, adversely affect our business. Such laws or regulations could also materially increase our costs of compliance and doing business by more strictly regulating how hydraulic fracturing wastes are handled or disposed.. 25. Properties that we decide to drill may not yield natural gas, NGLs or oil in commercially viable quantities.. Properties that we decide to drill that do not yield natural gas, NGLs or oil in commercially viable quantities will adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our project areas are in various stages of development, ranging from project areas with current drilling or production activity to project areas that consist of recently acquired leasehold acreage or that have limited drilling or production history. If the wells in the process of being drilled and completed do not produce sufficient revenues to return a profit or if we drill dry holes in the future, our business may be materially affected. In addition, there is no way to predict in advance of drilling and testing whether any particular prospect will yield natural gas, NGLs or oil in sufficient quantities to recover drilling and completion costs or to be economically viable. The use of micro-seismic data and other technologies and the study of producing fields in the same area will not enable us to know conclusively prior to drilling whether natural gas, NGLs or oil will be present or, if present, whether natural gas, NGLs or oil will be present in commercial quantities. We cannot assure you that the analogies we draw from available data from other wells, more fully explored prospects or producing fields will be applicable to our drilling prospects. Further, our drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or cancelled as a result of numerous factors, including:. •  unexpected drilling conditions;. •  title problems;. •  pressure or lost circulation in formations;. •  equipment failure or accidents;. •  adverse weather conditions;. •  compliance with environmental and other governmental or contractual requirements; and. •  increase in the cost of, shortages or delays in the availability of, electricity, supplies, materials, drilling or workover rigs, equipment and services.. Hydrocarbon windows, phases or type curve areas have an inherent degree of variability and may change over time, and as a result, the available well data with respect to such windows, phases and type curve areas may not be indicative of the actual hydrocarbon composition for the windows, phases or type curve areas.. Based upon the well data available to us, we have grouped the publicly disclosed Utica Shale wells within the Utica Core Area into several distinct hydrocarbon windows, phases or type curve areas in an effort to better understand the thermal maturation variability within the Utica Core Area. However, there is an inherent degree of variability within such hydrocarbon windows, phases or type curve areas. Additionally, the well data we have utilized is predominantly based upon initial production rate, Btu content, natural gas yields and condensate yields, which may change over time. As a result, the well data with respect to the windows, phases and type curve areas within the Utica Core Area may not be indicative of the actual hydrocarbon composition for the windows, phases or type curve areas, or may not be the hydrocarbon composition of the windows, phases or type curve areas at the time we drill. Due to such factors, the performance, Btu content and NGLs and/or condensate yields of our wells may be substantially less than we anticipate or substantially less than performance and yields of other operators in the Utica Core Area, which may materially adversely affect our future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or ability to finance planned capital expenditures.. We have been an early entrant into the Utica Core Area, which is an emerging play, and have also been an early entrant into the portion of the Marcellus Shale underlying our Marcellus Area. As a result, our expected well results in these areas are uncertain, and the value of our undeveloped acreage will decline if well results are unsuccessful.. Our expected well results in the Utica Core Area and our Marcellus Area are more uncertain than well results in areas that are more developed and have a greater number of producing wells. As a result, our cost of drilling, completing and operating wells in the Utica Core Area and our Marcellus Area may be higher than initially expected, the ultimate production and reserves from these wells may be lower than initially expected and the value of our undeveloped acreage may decline. Additionally, we cannot assure you that all prospects will be economically viable or that we will not abandon our investments. We cannot assure you that unproved property acquired by us or. 26. undeveloped acreage leased by us will be profitably developed, that wells drilled by us in prospects that we pursue will be productive or that we will recover all or any portion of our investment in such unproved property or wells.. Part of our strategy involves using some of the latest available horizontal drilling and completion techniques, which involve risks and uncertainties in their application.. Our operations involve utilizing some of the latest drilling and completion techniques as developed by us, other oil and gas exploration and production companies and our service providers. Risks that we face while drilling include, but are not limited to, the following:. •  drilling wells that are significantly longer and/or deeper than more conventional wells;. •  landing our wellbore in the desired drilling zone;. •  staying in the desired drilling zone while drilling horizontally through the formation;. •  running our casing the entire length of the wellbore; and. •  being able to run tools and other equipment consistently through the horizontal wellbore.. Risks that we face while completing our wells include, but are not limited to, the following:. •  the ability to fracture stimulate the planned number of stages;. •  the ability to run tools the entire length of the wellbore during completion operations; and. •  the ability to successfully clean out the wellbore after completion of the final fracture stimulation stage.. Drilling for and producing natural gas, NGLs and oil are high-risk activities with many uncertainties that could result in a total loss of investment or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our future financial condition and results of operations will depend on the success of our development and acquisition activities, which are subject to numerous risks beyond our control, including the risk that drilling will not result in commercially viable production or that we will not recover all or any portion of our investment in such wells.. Our decisions to purchase, explore or develop prospects or properties will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are often inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. For a discussion of the uncertainty involved in these processes, see \"Items 1 and 2. Business and Properties - Oil and Natural Gas Data.\" Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves, which could materially reduce our borrowing capacity. In addition, our cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain before drilling commences.. Further, many factors may curtail, delay or cancel our scheduled drilling projects, including, without limitation, the following:. •  compliance with regulatory requirements, including limitations resulting from wastewater disposal, discharge of greenhouse gases, and limitations on hydraulic fracturing;. •  pressure or irregularities in geological formations;. •  shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment and qualified personnel or in obtaining water for hydraulic fracturing activities;. •  equipment failures, accidents or other unexpected operational events;. •  lack of available gathering and processing facilities or delays in construction of gathering and processing facilities;. 27. •  lack of available capacity on interconnecting transmission pipelines;. •  adverse weather conditions, such as blizzards and ice storms;. •  issues related to compliance with environmental regulations;. •  environmental hazards, such as natural gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline and tank ruptures, encountering naturally occurring radioactive materials, and unauthorized discharges of brine, well stimulation and completion fluids, toxic gases or other pollutants into the surface and subsurface environment;. •  terrorist (including eco-terrorist) attacks targeting natural gas and oil related facilities and infrastructure;. •  declines in natural gas, NGLs and oil prices;. •  limited availability of financing at acceptable terms;. •  title problems and well permit objections from coal operators; and. •  limitations in the market for natural gas.. Any of these risks can cause substantial losses, including personal injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution, environmental contamination or loss of wells and other regulatory penalties.. We have incurred losses from operations in nearly every year since our inception and may do so in the future.. Although we generated net income of $8.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2017, we incurred a net loss in each of the prior years since our inception. Our development of and participation in a large number of prospects has required, and if commodity prices rebound will require, substantial capital expenditures. The uncertainty and factors described throughout this \"Risk Factors\" section may impede our ability to economically find, develop and acquire oil and natural gas reserves. As a result, we may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability or positive cash flows from operating activities in the future, which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and our ability to fund our operations and fulfill our debt obligations.. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, including our senior unsecured notes, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful.. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our indebtedness obligations, including our revolving credit facility and our senior unsecured notes, depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal of, or premium, if any, and interest on, our indebtedness when due.. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, sell assets, raise additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. Our ability to raise additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness will depend on the condition of the credit, financial or other capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our indebtedness could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with covenants that could further restrict our business operations. The terms of existing or future debt instruments may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. In addition, any failure to make payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness.. In the absence of sufficient cash flows and capital resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. The value of our assets, particularly in times of low or volatile commodity prices, may not be sufficient to satisfy our liquidity needs or to repay our indebtedness. Furthermore, the credit agreement governing our revolving credit. 28. facility and the indenture governing our senior unsecured notes restrict our subsidiaries' ability to dispose of assets and our subsidiaries' use of the proceeds from any such disposition. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions, and the proceeds of any such disposition may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations and fund our operations.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $510.5 million in total indebtedness, no senior secured indebtedness outstanding and approximately $191.4 million of available borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility (after giving effect to approximately $33.6 million of outstanding letters of credit). Subsequent to December 31, 2017, we borrowed $45 million under our revolving credit facility, which reduced the available borrowing capacity under such facility to $146.4 million.. In the future, we may not be able to access adequate funding under our revolving credit facility as a result of a decrease in borrowing base due to the issuance of new indebtedness, the outcome of a subsequent borrowing base redetermination, unwillingness of the lenders to increase their aggregate commitment up to an increased borrowing base amount or an unwillingness or inability on the part of one or more lenders to meet their funding obligations and the inability of other lenders to provide additional funding to cover each unwilling or defaulting lender's portion. Declines in commodity prices could result in a determination to lower the borrowing base in the future, and in such a case, we could be required to repay any indebtedness in excess of the redetermined borrowing base. As a result, we may be unable to implement our drilling and development plan, make acquisitions or otherwise carry out our business plans, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and impair our ability to service our indebtedness.. Our producing properties are concentrated in the Appalachian Basin, which makes us vulnerable to risks associated with operating in one major geographic area.. Our producing properties are geographically concentrated in the Appalachian Basin. At December 31, 2017, all of our total estimated proved reserves were attributable to properties located in this area. As a result of this concentration, we may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of regional supply and demand factors, delays or interruptions of production from wells in this area caused by governmental regulation, processing or transportation capacity constraints, market limitations, water shortages, weather related conditions or interruption of the processing or transportation of natural gas, NGLs or oil. Such delays or interruptions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a number of areas within the Appalachian Basin have historically been subject to mining operations, the existence of which could require coordination to avoid adverse impacts as a result of drilling and mining in close proximity. These restrictions on our operations, and any similar restrictions, can cause delays or interruptions or can prevent us from executing our business strategy, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Due to the concentrated nature of our portfolio of natural gas and oil properties, a number of our properties could experience any of the same conditions at the same time, resulting in a relatively greater impact on our results of operations than they might have on other companies that have a more diversified portfolio of properties.. We own non-operating interests in properties developed and operated by third parties, and as a result, we are unable to control the operation and profitability of such properties.. We frequently participate as a non-operator in the drilling and completion of wells with third parties that exercise exclusive control over such operations. As a non-operator participant, we rely on the third party operating company to successfully operate these properties pursuant to joint operating agreements and other similar contractual arrangements.. As a non-operator participant in these operations, we may not be able to maximize the value associated with these properties in the manner we believe appropriate, or at all. For example, we cannot control the success of drilling and development activities on properties operated by third parties, which depend on a number of factors under the control of a third party operator, including such operator's determinations with respect to, among other things, the nature and timing of drilling and operational activities, the timing and amount of capital expenditures and the selection of suitable technology. In addition, the third party operator's operational expertise and financial. 29. resources and ability to gain the approval of other participants in drilling wells will impact the timing and potential success of our drilling and development activities in a manner that we are unable to control. The failure of an operator of our wells to adequately perform operations, an operator's breach of the applicable agreements or an operator's failure to act in ways that are favorable to us could reduce our production and revenues, negatively impact our liquidity and cause us to spend capital in excess of our current plans, and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our existing providers of gas gathering, processing and fractionation capacity may not be able to provide to us sufficient capacity for our production from the Utica Core Area, and as a result, we may be required to find alternative markets and gathering, processing or fractionation arrangements for our production from the Utica Core Area, which alternative arrangements may not be available on favorable terms, or at all.. A significant portion of our Utica Core Area acreage position is dedicated to long-term firm gas gathering, processing and fractionation agreements with primary terms of approximately 15 years. These agreements give us priority service and capacity over non-firm parties that wish to utilize the gas processing and fractionation plants and gas gathering system. As a result of such dedications, a significant portion of our operated wet gas acreage is committed to Blue Racer for gathering, processing and fractionation. Additionally, a significant portion of our operated dry gas acreage is committed to Eureka Midstream for gathering and a significant portion of our operated wet gas acreage is committed to EnLink Midstream for condensate gathering and stabilization. While we believe we have reserved sufficient capacity at these plants and on such systems to gather, process, fractionate and stabilize all of our projected production associated with our proved resources and a significant portion of our projected production from the Utica Core Area, that capacity may not be sufficient to handle all of our production or that the plants and systems will not experience significant mechanical problems or delays in construction or become unavailable to us due to unforeseen circumstances. As a result, we may be required to find alternative markets and gathering, processing or fractionation arrangements for our production from the Utica Core Area that is committed under these agreements, and such alternative arrangements may only be available on less favorable terms, or not at all.. We currently do not have agreements with providers of gas gathering, processing or fractionation capacity with respect to our production from our Marcellus Area, and we may not be able to enter into such agreements on favorable terms, or at all.. We have not entered into any gas gathering, processing or fractionation agreements with respect to our production from our Marcellus Area. We may not be able to enter into any such agreements on favorable terms, or at all. Without such agreements, we may not receive priority service or capacity over third parties that utilize the same gas processing and fractionation plants and gas gathering systems. Our inability to obtain sufficient gas gathering, processing and fractionation capacity for our production from our Marcellus Area could negatively impact our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations and reduce the overall value of our assets within this area.. Insufficient processing or takeaway capacity in the Appalachian Basin could cause significant fluctuations in our realized natural gas, NGLs and oil prices.. The Appalachian Basin natural gas business environment has historically been characterized by periods in which production has surpassed local processing and takeaway capacity, resulting in substantial discounts in the price received by producers such as us. A significant portion of our production from the Utica Core Area is currently being transported on pipelines that, after including the cost of such transportation, will consistently or periodically experience a negative differential to NYMEX Henry Hub prices.. Significant portions of our contracted firm transportation capacity have not been put into service. To the extent such projects are delayed or cancelled and we are unable to secure additional long-term firm takeaway capacity on major pipelines that are in existence or currently under construction in our core operating area to accommodate our production and to manage basis differentials, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Oil and condensate produced in the Appalachian Basin has increased substantially. There is limited takeaway capacity for these products and our sales of these products are currently occurring, and we expect will continue to. 30. occur, at a discount to the benchmark WTI price. If our providers are unable to secure buyers for these products, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We currently are and in the future expect to be party to contracts with third parties that include contractual minimums.. We are currently party to and expect to continue to be party to service contracts with drilling rig companies that require us to make shortfall payments to such companies if our actual activity level falls below specified contractual minimum activity levels. Moreover, we have entered into service contracts, and in the future may enter into additional service contracts, such as firm pipeline transportation contracts with companies owning interstate pipelines, that require us or may require us to make shortfall payments if our actual throughput falls below specified contractual minimum volumes. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we incurred approximately $0.8 million in shortfall payments under such contracts. Additionally, in 2018, we expect to have additional firm transportation capacity come into service that we do not currently anticipate filling, which may require us to make shortfall payments if we cannot otherwise optimize or sell such capacity. As such, we can provide no assurance that our activity levels will be sufficient to satisfy the minimum requirements under our drilling rig contracts or that our future volumes will be sufficient to satisfy the minimum requirements under any such firm transportation contracts. If we fail to satisfy the minimum activity levels or throughput requirements associated with such contracts, we would be obligated to make shortfall payments to our counterparties based on the difference between our actual activity levels and throughput volumes, respectively, and the contract minimums in each case. These differences and the associated shortfall payments could be significant and we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to cover those obligations, which may require us to reduce or delay our planned investments and capital expenditures or seek alternative means of financing.. Restrictions in our existing and future debt agreements could limit our growth and our ability to engage in certain activities.. The credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility contains a number of significant covenants, including restrictive covenants that restrict our and our subsidiaries' ability to, among other things:. •  incur additional indebtedness;. •  sell assets;. •  make loans to others;. •  make investments;. •  enter into mergers;. •  hedge future production;. •  incur liens;. •  change the nature of our business; and. •  engage in certain other transactions without the prior consent of the lenders.. The indenture governing our senior unsecured notes contains similar restrictive covenants. In addition, the credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility requires us to maintain certain financial ratios or to reduce our indebtedness if we are unable to comply with such ratios. These restrictions, together with those in the indenture governing our senior unsecured notes, may limit our ability to obtain future financings to withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general, or to otherwise conduct necessary corporate activities. We may also be prevented from taking advantage of business opportunities that arise because of the limitations imposed on us by the restrictive covenants of the credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing our senior unsecured notes.. A breach of any covenant in the credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility or the indenture governing our senior unsecured notes would result in a default under the applicable agreement after any applicable grace periods. A default, if not waived or cured, could result in acceleration of the indebtedness outstanding under. 31. the relevant agreement and in a default with respect to, and an acceleration of, the indebtedness outstanding under other debt agreements. The accelerated indebtedness would become immediately due and payable. If that occurs, we may not be able to make all of the required payments or obtain sufficient capital to refinance such indebtedness. Even if a refinancing were available, it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us. Moreover, an increased interest rate is also payable in connection with a default under the credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility and certain payment defaults under the indenture governing our senior unsecured notes.. Any significant reduction in our borrowing base or reduction of lender commitments under our revolving credit facility, as a result of the periodic borrowing base redeterminations or otherwise, may negatively impact our ability to fund our capital expenditure plan.. We expect to fund a portion of our capital expenditure plan through 2018 with future borrowings under our revolving credit facility.  The credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility limits the amounts we can borrow under our revolving credit facility from time to time up to a specified maximum borrowing base amount or the aggregate amount of lender commitments, whichever is less. The lenders, in their sole discretion, will determine a borrowing base on a semi-annual basis based upon the loan value assigned to the proved reserves attributable to our oil and gas properties evaluated in our most recent reserve report(s). Our lenders may further request two additional unscheduled borrowing base redeterminations during each calendar year. Any increase in the borrowing base will require the consent of the lenders holding 95.0% (or 100.0% if there are fewer than three lenders at the time of determination) of the outstanding credit amounts, or if none are then outstanding, 95% of the commitments (provided that no lender's commitment may increase without its consent). Distinct from determinations of a borrowing base, each lender, in its sole discretion, will determine the maximum amount of loans it will commit to make under our revolving credit facility based, in part, on general economic considerations and its prevailing lending policies. Outstanding borrowings in excess of the lesser of the specified maximum borrowing base amount or the prevailing aggregate lender commitment must be repaid. If we fail to repay such excess borrowings on a timely basis, we must provide additional oil and gas properties as collateral to the extent necessary to eliminate the deficiency. As of December 31, 2017, the borrowing base under our revolving credit facility was $225 million and there were no outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility, resulting in borrowing availability of approximately $191.4 million (after giving effect to approximately $33.6 million of outstanding letters of credit).  Subsequent to December 31, 2017, we borrowed $45 million under our revolving credit facility, which reduced the available borrowing capacity under such facility to $146.4 million.. We may be unable to make attractive acquisitions or successfully integrate acquired businesses, and any inability to do so may disrupt our business and hinder our ability to grow.. We have made asset and business acquisitions in the past, including, most recently, the Flat Castle Acquisition, and we may continue to make acquisitions of assets or businesses in the future that complement or expand our current business. We may not be able to identify attractive acquisition opportunities. Even if we do identify attractive acquisition opportunities, we may not be able to complete the acquisition or do so on commercially acceptable terms. Further, the success of any completed acquisition, including the Flat Castle Acquisition, depends on our ability to integrate the acquired business effectively into our existing operations and such integration process may involve difficulties that require a disproportionate amount of our managerial and financial resources to resolve. We may also fail to realize the expected benefits of any completed acquisitions, and completed acquisitions may subject us to significant transaction costs, unknown liabilities, and/or other unanticipated expenses, such as litigation expenses.. In addition, possible future acquisitions may be larger and for purchase prices significantly higher than those paid for earlier acquisitions. No assurance can be given that we will be able to identify additional suitable acquisition opportunities, negotiate acceptable terms, obtain financing for acquisitions on acceptable terms or successfully acquire identified targets. Our failure to achieve consolidation savings, to integrate successfully the acquired businesses and assets into our existing operations or to minimize any unforeseen liabilities or operational difficulties could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, the credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing our senior unsecured notes impose certain limitations on our ability to enter into mergers or combination transactions and to make investments. The credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing. 32. our senior unsecured notes also limit our ability to incur certain indebtedness and liens, which could limit our ability to engage in acquisitions of businesses.. We may be subject to risks in connection with acquisitions of properties.. We have historically acquired assets and businesses that we feel complement our assets and business and may continue to do so in the future. The successful acquisition of producing properties requires an assessment of several factors, including:. •  recoverable reserves;. •  future natural gas, NGLs or oil prices and their applicable differentials;. •  operating costs; and. •  potential environmental and other liabilities.. The accuracy of these assessments is inherently uncertain. In connection with these assessments, we perform a review of the subject properties that we believe to be generally consistent with industry practices. Our review will not reveal all existing or potential problems nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and capabilities. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems, such as groundwater contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Even when problems are identified, the seller may be unwilling or unable to provide effective contractual protection against all or part of the problems. We often are not entitled to contractual indemnification for environmental liabilities and acquire properties on an \"as is\" basis.. Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves.. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. It requires interpretations of available technical data and many assumptions, including, without limitation, assumptions relating to current and future economic conditions and commodity prices. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of our reserves.. In order to prepare reserve estimates, we must project production rates and timing of development expenditures. We must also analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires economic assumptions about matters such as oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds.. Actual future production, natural gas and oil prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves will vary from our estimates. As a substantial portion of our reserve estimates are made without the benefit of a lengthy production history, any significant variance from the above assumption could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of our reserves. In addition, we may adjust reserve estimates to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, existing commodity prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control.. You should not assume that the present value of future net revenues from our reserves is the current market value of our estimated natural gas reserves. We generally base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from reserves on prices and costs on the date of the estimate. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the present value estimate.. Reserve estimates for plays, such as the Utica Core Area and our Marcellus Area, where we predominately operate, that do not have a lengthy production history are less reliable than estimates for fields with lengthy production histories. Less production history may contribute to less accurate estimates of reserves, future production rates and the timing of development expenditures. Most of our production is from wells that have been operational for less than one year, and as estimated reserves vary substantially from well to well, estimated reserves may not be. 33. correlated to perforated lateral length or completion technique. Furthermore, the lack of operational history for horizontal wells in the Utica Core Area and our Marcellus Area may also contribute to the inaccuracy of future estimates of reserves and could result in our failing to achieve expected results in these plays. A material and adverse variance of actual production, revenues and expenditures from those underlying reserve estimates or management expectations would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Furthermore, given the amount of our total estimated proved reserves in relation to the amount of our outstanding debt obligations, the value of our assets may not be sufficient to satisfy our liquidity needs or to repay our indebtedness.. Our gross identified drilling locations are scheduled out over many years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their drilling. In addition, we may not be able to raise the capital that we expect to be necessary to drill our identified drilling locations.. Our management team has specifically identified and scheduled certain well locations as an estimation of our future multi-year drilling activities on our existing acreage. These well locations represent a significant part of our growth strategy. Our ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of uncertainties, including natural gas, NGLs and oil prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, availability of drilling services and equipment, drilling results, topographical constraints, lease expirations, the ability to form units, gathering system and pipeline transportation constraints, access to and availability of water sourcing and distribution systems, governmental regulation, the ability to pool or unitize our acreage with acreage leased to other operators and approvals and other factors. Because of these uncertain factors, we do not know if the numerous drilling locations we have identified will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce natural gas or oil from these or any other identified drilling locations. In addition, unless production is established within the spacing units covering the undeveloped acres on which some of the potential locations are obtained, the leases for such acreage will expire. Further, some of the horizontal wells we intend to drill in the future may require unitization with adjacent leaseholds controlled by third parties. If these third parties are unwilling to unitize such leaseholds with ours, this may limit the total locations we can drill. As such, our actual drilling activities may materially differ from those presently identified.. As of December 31, 2017 after deducting wells that have been drilled or are in progress, we had identified approximately 98.2, 18.3, 93.8, and 78.1 net undeveloped Dry Gas, Rich Gas, Condensate and Marcellus Condensate locations, respectively. As a result of the limitations described above, including the recent significant declines in natural gas and oil prices, we may be unable to drill many of our identified drilling locations. In addition, we will require significant additional capital over a prolonged period in order to pursue the development of these locations, and we may not be able to raise or generate the capital required to do so. Any drilling activities we are able to conduct on these potential locations may not be successful or result in our ability to add additional proved reserves to our overall proved reserves or may result in a downward revision of our estimated proved reserves, which could have a material adverse effect on our future business and results of operations. For more information on our identified drilling locations, see \"Business - Our Properties.\". We have acreage that we must commence operations upon before lease expiration in order to hold the acreage by production. If we fail to drill sufficient wells to hold acreage we incur substantial lease renewal costs, or if renewal is not feasible, lose our lease and prospective drilling opportunities.. Leases on our oil and natural gas properties typically have a primary term of 5 years, after which they expire unless, prior to expiration, we commence operations within the spacing units covering the undeveloped acres. As of December 31, 2017, we had leases representing approximately 33,069 gross (21,473 net) undeveloped acres scheduled to expire in 2018, 12,339 gross (9,760 net) undeveloped acres scheduled to expire in 2019, 3,320 gross (2,657 net) undeveloped acres scheduled to expire in 2020, 14,570 gross (11,919 net) undeveloped acres scheduled to expire in 2021, and 14,657 gross (11,685 net) undeveloped acres scheduled to expire in 2022 and beyond. The cost to renew such leases may increase significantly, and we may not be able to renew such leases on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Moreover, many of our leases require lessor consent to create units larger than the leases currently permit, which may make it more difficult to hold our leases by production or optimally develop our leasehold position. Although we seek to actively manage our undeveloped properties, our drilling plans for these areas are subject to change based upon various factors, including drilling results, natural gas, NGLs and oil prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, the availability of drilling services and equipment,. 34. gathering systems and pipeline transportation constraints and regulatory approvals. In order to hold our current leases that are scheduled to expire in 2018 and 2019, we have deployed a strategy to convert our land extension payments into multi-year delay rental payments, which is designed to spread the costs beyond a single year. We cannot assure you that we will have the liquidity to execute on this strategy, that landowners will be willing to enter into this type of lease modification or that we will have the liquidity to otherwise deploy rigs when needed to hold this expiring acreage. Our reserves and future production, and therefore, our future cash flows and income, are highly dependent on successfully extending or developing our undeveloped leasehold acreage and the loss of any leases could materially adversely affect our ability to so develop such acreage.. The standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves will not be the same as the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves.. You should not assume that the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves is the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements in effect at December 31, 2015, December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2017, we based the discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves on the 12-month first-day-of-the-month oil and natural gas average prices without giving effect to derivative transactions. Actual future net cash flows from our oil and natural gas properties will be affected by factors such as:. •  actual prices we receive for natural gas, NGLs and oil;. •  actual cost of development and production expenditures;. •  the effect of derivative transactions;. •  the amount and timing of actual production; and. •  changes in governmental regulations or taxation.. The timing of both our production and our incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of oil and natural gas properties will affect the timing and amount of actual future net revenues from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating standardized measure may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the oil and natural gas industry in general. As a corporation, we are treated as a taxable entity for federal income tax purposes, and our income taxes are dependent on our taxable income. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the present value estimates included in this Annual Report which could have a material effect on the value of our reserves.. We may incur losses as a result of title defects in the properties in which we invest.. Leases in the Appalachian Basin are particularly vulnerable to title deficiencies due to the long history of land ownership in the area, resulting in extensive and complex chains of title. In the course of acquiring the rights to develop oil and natural gas, it is standard procedure for us and the lessor to execute a lease agreement with payment subject to title verification. In most cases, we incur the expense of retaining lawyers, title abstractors or landmen to verify the rightful owners of the oil and gas interests prior to payment of such lease bonus to the lessor. There is no certainty, however, that a lessor has valid title to its lease's oil and gas interests. In those cases, such leases are generally voided and payment is not remitted to the lessor. As such, title failures may result in fewer net acres to us. Prior to the drilling of an oil or natural gas well, however, it is the normal practice in our industry for the person or company acting as the operator of the well to obtain a preliminary title review to ensure there are no obvious defects in title to the well. Frequently, as a result of such examinations, curative work must be done to correct defects in the marketability of the title, and such curative work entails expense. Our failure to cure any title defects may delay or prevent us from utilizing the associated mineral interest, which may adversely impact our ability in the future to increase production and reserves. Accordingly, undeveloped acreage has greater risk of title defects than developed acreage. If there are any title defects or defects in assignment of leasehold rights in properties in which we hold an interest, we could suffer a financial loss or an impairment of our assets.. 35. The development of our estimated proved undeveloped reserves may take longer and may require higher levels of capital expenditures than we currently anticipate. Therefore, our estimated proved undeveloped reserves may not be ultimately developed or produced.. At December 31, 2017, we had 1,458.6 Bcfe of total estimated proved reserves, of which approximately 69% were classified as proved undeveloped. Our approximately 1,002.6 Bcfe of estimated proved undeveloped reserves will require an estimated $835.2 million of development capital over the next 5 years. Development of these undeveloped reserves may take longer and require higher levels of capital expenditures than we currently anticipate. Delays in the development of our reserves, increases in costs to drill and develop such reserves, or decreases in commodity prices will reduce the PV-10 value of our estimated proved undeveloped reserves and future net revenues estimated for such reserves and may result in some projects becoming uneconomic. In addition, delays in the development of reserves could cause us to have to reclassify our proved undeveloped reserves as unproved reserves.. Unless we replace our reserves with new reserves and develop those reserves, our reserves and production will decline, which would adversely affect our future cash flows and results of operations.. Producing oil and natural gas reservoirs generally are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Unless we successfully conduct ongoing development and exploration activities or continually acquire properties containing proved reserves, our proved reserves will decline as those reserves are produced. Our future oil and natural gas reserves and production, and therefore our future cash flows and results of operations, are highly dependent on our success in efficiently developing and exploiting our current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. We may not be able to develop, find or acquire sufficient additional reserves to replace our current and future production. If we are unable to replace our current and future production, the value of our reserves will decrease, and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected.. Conservation measures and technological advances could reduce demand for natural gas, NGLs and oil.. Fuel conservation measures, alternative fuel requirements, increasing consumer demand for alternatives to natural gas, NGLs and oil, technological advances in fuel economy and energy generation devices could reduce demand for natural gas, NGLs and oil. The impact of the changing demand for natural gas, NGLs and oil services and products may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our derivative activities could result in financial losses or could reduce our earnings.. To achieve more predictable cash flows and reduce our exposure to adverse fluctuations in the prices of natural gas and oil, we have entered into derivative instrument contracts for a significant portion of our natural gas, NGLs and oil production, including fixed-price swaps, basis swaps, collars and firm sales agreements. Accordingly, our earnings may fluctuate significantly as a result of changes in fair value of our derivative instruments.. Derivative instruments also expose us to the risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including when:. •  production is less than the volume covered by the derivative instruments;. •  the counterparty to the derivative instrument defaults on its contractual obligations;. •  there is an increase in the differential between the underlying price in the derivative instrument and actual prices received; or. •  there are issues with regard to legal enforceability of such instruments.. The use of derivatives may, in some cases, require the posting of cash collateral with counterparties. If we enter into derivative instruments that require cash collateral and commodity prices or interest rates change in a manner adverse to us, our cash otherwise available for use in our operations would be reduced which could limit our ability to make future capital expenditures and make payments on our indebtedness, and which could also limit the size of our borrowing base. Future collateral requirements will depend on arrangements with our counterparties, highly volatile oil and natural gas prices and interest rates.. 36. Our hedging transactions expose us to risk of financial loss if a counterparty fails to perform under a derivative contract. Disruptions in the financial markets could lead to sudden decreases in a counterparty's liquidity, which could make them unable to perform under the terms of the derivative contract and we may not be able to realize the benefit of the derivative contract. Any default by a counterparty to these derivative contracts when they become due would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, derivative arrangements could limit the benefit we would receive from increases in the prices for natural gas, which could also have an adverse effect on our financial condition.. The inability of our significant customers to meet their obligations to us may adversely affect our financial results.. In addition to credit risk related to receivables from commodity derivative contracts, our principal exposures to credit risk are through joint interest receivables ($23.2 million at December 31, 2017) and the sale of our natural gas and oil production ($52.9  million in receivables at December 31, 2017). Joint interest receivables arise from billing entities who own partial interest in the wells we operate. These entities participate in our wells primarily based on their ownership in leased properties on which we wish to drill. We can do very little to choose who participates in our wells. For the year ended December 31, 2017, two customers, Emera Energy Services and Marathon, accounted for approximately 17% and 10%, respectively, of our revenues. We do not require our customers to post collateral. The inability or failure of our significant customers to meet their obligations to us or their insolvency or liquidation may adversely affect our financial results.. Our operating history is limited and as a result there is only limited historical financial and operating information available upon which to base an evaluation of our performance. Moreover, the historical financial and operating information included in this Annual Report may not be indicative of our future financial performance.. Our operating history is limited and as a result there is only limited historical financial and operating information available upon which to base an evaluation of our performance. Moreover, the historical financial and operating information included in this Annual Report may not be indicative of our future financial performance. We have yet to generate positive earnings from our current business strategy and there can be no assurance that we will ever operate profitably. If our current business strategy is not successful, and we are not able to operate profitably, investors may lose some or all of their investment.. Our operations are subject to governmental laws and regulations, which may expose us to significant costs and liabilities that could exceed current expectations.. Our operations are subject to various federal, state and local governmental regulations. Matters subject to regulation include wastewater disposal, the spacing of wells, unitization and pooling of properties and taxation. In addition, the production, handling, storage, transportation, remediation, emission and disposal of oil and natural gas, by-products thereof and other substances and materials produced or used in connection with oil and natural gas operations are subject to regulation under federal, state and local laws and regulations, primarily relating to protection of human health and the environment. Failure to comply with these laws, regulations and permits may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations, the imposition of stricter conditions on or revocation of permits, the issuance of injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of our operations, delays in granting permits and cancellation of leases. Moreover, these laws and regulations have continually imposed increasingly strict requirements for water and air pollution control and solid waste management. Significant expenditures may be required to comply with governmental laws and regulations applicable to us. We believe the trend of more expansive and stricter environmental legislation and regulations will continue for the foreseeable future. Please read \"Items 1 and 2. Business and Properties - Regulation of the Oil and Natural Gas Industry\" and \"Items 1 and 2. Business and Properties - Regulation of Environmental and Occupational Safety and Health Matters\" for a description of the laws and regulations that affect us.. We make assumptions and develop expectations about possible expenditures based on current laws and regulations and current interpretations of those laws and regulations. If the interpretation of laws or regulations, or the laws and regulations themselves, change, our assumptions may change, new capital costs may be incurred to. 37. comply with such changes. In addition, new laws and regulations might adversely affect our operations and activities, including drilling, processing, storage and transportation, as well as waste management and air emissions.. Recent decisions by the Ohio Supreme Court interpreting the Ohio Dormant Mineral Act relating to preservation of mineral rights by surface owners could complicate title review, delay drilling activities and increase leasehold expenses with respect to some of our leasehold acreage in Ohio.. On September 15, 2016, the Ohio Supreme Court issued a series of decisions relating to the Ohio Dormant Mineral Act, which we refer to as the ODMA. In the lead case, Corban v. Chesapeake Exploration L.L.C., the court concluded that the 1989 version of the ODMA did not transfer ownership of dormant mineral rights automatically, by operation of law. Instead, prior to 2006, surface owners were required to bring a quiet title action in order to establish abandonment of mineral rights. After June 30, 2006 (the effective date of the 2006 version of the ODMA), surface owners are required to follow the statutory notice and recording procedures enacted in 2006. As a result, going forward, it will be more difficult for a surface owner to achieve an abandonment of mineral rights as the Ohio Supreme Court held that the statutory notice and recording provisions of the 2006 version of the ODMA will apply. In addition, mineral interests that may previously have been believed to be automatically abandoned by operation of law will now be valid pursuant to the Ohio Supreme Court's rulings. Accordingly, these recent Ohio Supreme Court decisions may complicate title review, delay drilling activities and increase leasehold expenses with respect to our operations in Ohio where the majority of our acreage and producing properties are located, any of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Our operations may be exposed to significant delays, costs and liabilities as a result of environmental, health and safety requirements applicable to our business activities.. There is inherent risk of the incurrence of environmental costs and liabilities in our business, some of which may be material, due to the handling of our products as they are gathered, transported, processed and stored, air emissions related to our operations, historical industry operations, and water and waste disposal practices. Joint and several strict liability may be incurred without regard to fault under some environmental laws and regulations, including the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Oil Pollution Act, and analogous state laws, for the remediation of contaminated areas and in connection with spills or releases of natural gas, oil and wastes on, under, or from our properties and facilities. Private parties may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage arising from our operations. Some sites at which we operate may be located near current or former third party oil and natural gas operations or facilities, and there is a risk that contamination has migrated from those sites to ours. In addition, increasingly strict laws, regulations and enforcement policies could materially increase our compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary. Our insurance may not cover all environmental risks and costs or may not provide sufficient coverage if an environmental claim is made against us.. We may be held responsible for all liabilities associated with the environmental condition of our facilities and assets, whether acquired or developed, regardless of when the liabilities arose and whether they are known or unknown. In connection with acquisitions and divestitures, we could acquire, or be required to provide indemnification against, environmental liabilities that could expose us to material losses, which may not be covered by insurance. In addition, the steps we could be required to take to bring facilities into compliance could be prohibitively expensive, and we might be required to shut down, divest or alter the operation of those facilities, which might cause us to incur losses.. Oil and natural gas producers' operations, especially those using hydraulic fracturing, are substantially dependent on the availability of water and water disposal options. Restrictions on the ability to obtain water or dispose of wastewater may impact our operations.. Water is an essential component of oil and natural gas production during the drilling, and in particular, hydraulic fracturing, process. Our inability to locate sufficient amounts of water, or dispose of or recycle water used in our exploration and production operations, could adversely impact our operations.. 38. In addition, various studies have identified potential links between increases in seismic activity and the injection/disposal of water associated with oil and natural gas production, which could result in the imposition of operational limits or closure of disposal wells in areas where such links are suspected. For example, the Ohio Department of Natural Resources (\"ODNR\") adopted rules that, among other things, allows the ODNR to require submission of a seismic monitoring plan, and requires continuous monitoring of injection and annulus pressures on new wells.. We are subject to risks associated with climate change.. In recent years, federal, state and local governments have taken steps to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases (\"GHGs\"). The EPA has issued a series of GHG monitoring, reporting and emissions control rules for oil and natural gas industry, and the U.S. Congress has, from time to time, considered adopting legislation to reduce emissions. Almost one-half of the states have already taken measures to reduce emissions of GHGs primarily through the development of GHG emission inventories and/or regional GHG, cap-and-trade programs. While we are subject to certain federal GHG monitoring and reporting requirements, our operations currently are not adversely impacted by existing federal, state and local climate change initiatives. In addition, in December 2015, over 190 countries, including the United States, reached an agreement to reduce GHG emissions and in March 2016 President Obama and Prime Minister Trudeau of Canada announced a joint agreement to reduce methane emissions from existing oil and gas operations. Our business and our financial results could be adversely impacted to the extent that the United States implements any additional GHG regulations in accordance with such agreement.  The Trump administration has since notified the United Nations of its intent to withdraw from the Paris Agreement, but under the terms of the agreement the U.S. will remain a party until approximately August 2020.. The costs that may be associated with the impacts of climate change and the regulation of GHGs have the potential to affect our business in many ways, including negatively impacting the costs we incur in providing our products and services, and the demand for and consumption of our products and services (due to changes in both costs and weather patterns). If we are unable to recover or pass through a significant level of our costs related to complying with climate change regulatory requirements imposed on us, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. To the extent financial markets view climate change and GHG emissions as a financial risk, this could negatively impact our cost of and access to capital. At this time, however, it is not possible to estimate how future laws or regulations or climatic changes may impact our business.. We may incur substantial losses and be subject to substantial liability claims as a result of our operations. Additionally, we may not be insured for, or our insurance may be inadequate to protect us against, these risks.. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to all of the operating risks associated with drilling for and producing oil and natural gas, including the possibility of:. •  environmental hazards, such as uncontrollable releases of oil, natural gas, brine, well fluids, toxic gas or other pollution into the environment, including groundwater, air and shoreline or river contamination;. •  abnormally pressured formations;. •  mechanical difficulties, such as stuck oilfield drilling and service tools and casing collapse;. •  fires, explosions and ruptures of pipelines or processing facilities;. •  personal injuries and death;. •  natural disasters; and. •  terrorist (including eco-terrorist) attacks targeting natural gas and oil related facilities and infrastructure.. Any of these risks could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations or result in substantial loss to us as a result of claims for:. •  injury or loss of life;. •  damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment;. 39. •  pollution and other environmental damage;. •  regulatory investigations and penalties;. •  suspension of our operations; and. •  repair and remediation costs.. In accordance with what we believe to be customary industry practice, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of our business risks. Our insurance may not be adequate to cover any or all of the losses or liabilities we may suffer. Also, insurance may no longer be available to us or, if it is, its availability may be at premium levels that do not justify its purchase. The occurrence of a significant uninsured claim, a claim in excess of the insurance coverage limits maintained by us or a claim at a time when we are not able to obtain liability insurance could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct normal business operations and on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, we may not be able to secure additional insurance or bonding that might be required by new governmental regulations. This may cause us to restrict our operations, which might severely impact our financial condition. We may also be liable for environmental damage caused by previous owners of properties purchased by us, which liabilities may not be covered by insurance.. Since hydraulic fracturing activities are a large part of our operations, they are covered by our insurance against claims made for bodily injury, property damage and cleanup costs stemming from a sudden and accidental pollution event. However, we may not have coverage if we are unaware of the pollution event and unable to report the \"occurrence\" to our insurance company within the time frame required under our insurance policy. We have no coverage for gradual, long-term pollution events. In addition, these policies do not provide coverage for all liabilities, and we cannot assure you that the insurance coverage will be adequate to cover claims that may arise, or that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance at rates we consider reasonable. A loss not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Market conditions or operational impediments may hinder our access to natural gas, NGLs or oil markets or delay our production.. Market conditions or the unavailability of satisfactory natural gas, NGLs or oil transportation arrangements may hinder our access to markets or delay our production. The availability of a ready market for our production depends on a number of factors, including the demand for and supply of natural gas, NGLs or oil and the proximity of reserves to pipelines and terminal facilities. Our ability to market our production depends in substantial part on the availability and capacity of gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities owned and operated by third parties. Because many of our operations are in an emerging play, much of this infrastructure is currently being built or is yet to be built, and we cannot assure you that it will be built on time or at all. Our failure to obtain such services on acceptable terms and concurrent with the completion of our wells could materially harm our business. We may be required to shut in wells due to lack of a market or inadequacy or unavailability of natural gas, NGLs or oil pipeline or gathering system capacity. In addition, if quality specifications for the third party pipelines with which we connect change so as to restrict our ability to transport product, our access to markets could be impeded. If our production becomes shut in for any of these or other reasons, we would be unable to realize revenue from those wells until other arrangements were made to deliver the products to market.. The unavailability or high cost of additional drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oilfield services could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans within our budget and on a timely basis.. The demand for qualified and experienced field personnel to drill wells and conduct field operations, geologists, geophysicists, engineers and other professionals in the oil and natural gas industry can fluctuate significantly, often in correlation with natural gas and oil prices, causing periodic shortages. Some of the rigs performing work for us do so on a well-by-well basis and can refuse to provide such services at the conclusion of drilling on the current well. Historically, there have been shortages of drilling and workover rigs, pipe and other equipment as demand for rigs and equipment has increased along with the number of wells being drilled. We cannot predict whether these conditions will exist in the future and, if so, what their timing and duration will be. Such shortages could delay or cause us to incur significant expenditures that are not provided for in our capital budget, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 40. Competition in the oil and natural gas industry is intense, making it more difficult for us to acquire properties, market natural gas, NGLs and oil and secure trained personnel.. Our ability to acquire additional prospects and to find and develop reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment for acquiring properties, marketing natural gas, NGLs and oil and securing trained personnel. Also, there is substantial competition for capital available for investment in the oil and natural gas industry. Many of our competitors possess and employ financial, technical and personnel resources substantially greater than ours. Those companies may be able to pay more for productive natural gas and oil properties and exploratory prospects and to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or personnel resources permit. In addition, other companies may be able to offer better compensation packages to attract and retain qualified personnel than we are able to offer. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future in acquiring prospective reserves, developing reserves, marketing hydrocarbons, attracting and retaining quality personnel and raising additional capital, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. The past success of our senior management with developing public natural gas and oil enterprises, and the expertise of our senior management in the acquisition, exploration and development of unconventional natural gas and oil properties does not guarantee our success or profitability.. As described in this Annual Report, most of our executive officers and other key personnel, including our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Benjamin W. Hulburt, our Executive Vice President, Corporate Development and Geosciences, Thomas S. Liberatore, our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Oleg Tolmachev, and our Executive Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel, Christopher K. Hulburt, have substantial past experience in the acquisition, exploration and development of unconventional natural gas and oil properties, including experience at Rex Energy Corporation, Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation, Chesapeake Energy Corporation and Stone Energy Corporation. However, the past experience and success of our executive officers and other key personnel with respect to previous endeavors in the natural gas and oil industry is not a guarantee of our future success or profitability.. The loss of senior management or technical personnel could adversely affect operations.. We depend on the services of our senior management and technical personnel. We do not maintain, nor do we plan to obtain, any insurance against the loss of any of these individuals. The loss of the services of our senior management or technical personnel, including Benjamin W. Hulburt, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Matthew R. DeNezza, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Thomas Liberatore, our Executive Vice President, Corporate Development and Geosciences, Oleg Tolmachev, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, and Christopher K. Hulburt, our Executive Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Seasonal weather conditions and regulations intended to protect certain species of wildlife may adversely affect our ability to conduct drilling activities in the areas where we operate.. Natural gas and oil operations in our operating areas can be adversely affected by seasonal weather conditions and regulations designed to protect certain species of wildlife. For example, we must comply with state and federal regulations aimed at protecting the Indiana and Northern Long-Eared bats, which have been listed as a protected species by both federal and state law, and those regulations restrict or increase the cost of our operations by, among other things, limiting our ability to clear trees to establish rights of way or pad locations on some of our acreage during certain periods of the year. See \"Items 1 and 2. Business and Properties - Regulation of Environmental and Occupational Safety and Health Matters - Endangered Species Act and Migratory Bird Treaty Act.\" Adverse seasonal weather conditions and wildlife regulations may limit our ability to operate in those areas and can intensify competition during those months for drilling rigs, oilfield equipment, services, supplies and qualified personnel, which may lead to periodic shortages. These constraints and the resulting shortages or high costs could delay our operations and materially increase our operating and capital costs. In addition, the designation of previously unprotected species in areas where we operate as threatened or endangered could cause us to incur increased costs arising from species protection measures or could result in limitations on our exploration, development and production activities.. 41. Acts of terrorism (including eco-terrorism) could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our assets and operations, and the assets and operations of our providers of gas gathering, processing, transportation and fractionation services, may be targets of terrorist activities (including eco-terrorist activities) that could disrupt our business or cause significant harm to our operations, such as full or partial disruption to our ability to produce, process, transport, market or distribute natural gas, NGLs and oil. Acts of terrorism, as well as events occurring in response to or in connection with acts of terrorism, could cause environmental and other repercussions that could result in a significant decrease in revenues or significant reconstruction or remediation costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, acts of terrorism, and the threat of such acts, could result in volatility in the prices for natural gas, NGLs and oil and could affect the markets for such commodities.. Increases in interest rates could adversely affect our business.. Our business and operating results can be harmed by factors such as the availability, terms of and cost of capital, increases in interest rates or a reduction in credit rating. These changes could cause our cost of doing business to increase, limit our ability to pursue acquisition opportunities, reduce cash flows used for drilling and place us at a competitive disadvantage. Recent and continuing disruptions and volatility in the global financial markets may lead to a contraction in credit availability impacting our ability to finance our operations. We require continued access to capital. A significant reduction in cash flows from operations or the availability of credit could materially adversely affect our ability to achieve our planned growth and operating results.. The enactment of derivatives legislation, and the promulgation of regulations pursuant thereto, could adversely affect our ability to use derivative instruments to hedge risks associated with our business.. Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the \"Dodd-Frank Act\") was enacted on July 21, 2010 and establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, such as us, that participate in that market. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the \"CFTC\") and the SEC to promulgate certain rules and regulations implementing the Dodd-Frank Act, with the CFTC responsible for the rules and regulations regarding derivatives of the type we may use to hedge certain risks. Although the CFTC has finalized most of its implementing regulations, others remain to be finalized and it is not possible at this time to predict when this will be accomplished. In addition, the CFTC and its staff regularly issue rule amendments and guidance, policy statements, and letters interpreting the derivatives provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, the contents of which cannot be known in advance.. The Dodd-Frank Act enhanced the CFTC's authority to establish rules and regulations setting position limits for certain futures and option contracts, including in the major energy markets, and, for the first time, swaps that are their economic equivalents. The CFTC's initial position limits rules under the Dodd-Frank Act were vacated by the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia in September 2012 before such rules took effect. However, the CFTC has proposed new rules that would place limits on positions in certain core futures, options and equivalent swaps contracts in certain physical commodities, subject to limited exceptions for certain bona fide hedging and other transactions. The CFTC has also adopted final rules regarding the aggregation of positions in determining compliance with federal position limits. While the position aggregation rules are final, the position limit rules themselves are not, and therefore the impact of those rules on our use of derivatives in commodities for which federal position limits would be imposed is uncertain at this time.. The CFTC has designated certain interest rate swaps and credit default swaps for mandatory clearing and execution on certain trading platforms. The CFTC has not yet proposed rules designating any other classes of swaps, including physical commodity swaps, for mandatory clearing or trade execution. Although we expect to qualify for the end-user exception from the mandatory clearing and trade execution requirements for swaps entered to hedge our commercial risks, the application of the mandatory clearing and trade execution requirements to other market participants, such as swap dealers, may change the cost and availability of the swaps that we use for hedging. In addition, margin rules for uncleared swaps, adopted during the fourth quarter of 2016 by the CFTC and federal banking regulators and requiring the posting of collateral by swap dealers and certain other financial entities, could impact liquidity and therefore reduce our ability to execute hedges to reduce risk and protect cash flows. The margin. 42. rules are not yet in effect for all market participants, and therefore the impact of those provisions to us is uncertain at this time.. The Dodd-Frank Act and regulations may have other effects, including requiring or causing the counterparties to our derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to separate entities, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparties. The Dodd-Frank Act and regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts, materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, and reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which, among other impacts, could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures.. Finally, the Dodd-Frank Act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and physically settled instruments related to oil and natural gas. Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected to the extent that the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations contribute to lower commodity prices.. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on us, our financial condition or our results of operations.. Proposed changes to U.S. and state tax laws, if adopted, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Certain states may impose new or increased taxes or fees on natural gas and oil extraction.  For example, Ohio has previously considered, and, the Ohio Legislature continues to consider proposals to increase the current severance tax imposed on production of natural gas or oil in Ohio.  Pennsylvania historically has not imposed a severance tax on the production of natural gas.  However, Pennsylvania's governor and legislature have continued to discuss the imposition of a state severance tax on the extraction of natural resources, including natural gas produced from the Marcellus, Upper Devonian, and Utica Shale formations, either in replacement of or in addition to the existing impact fee.  If any legislation increasing severance taxes is enacted, or other similar changes that tax our production or reduce or eliminate deductions currently available with respect to natural gas and oil exploration and development, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Changes to state tax laws in response to recently enacted U.S. federal tax legislation or to impose new or increased taxes or fees on natural gas and oil extraction may result in an increase in the state taxes we pay.. Currently, many states conform their calculation of corporate taxable income to the calculation of corporate taxable income at the U.S. federal level.  Due to recently enacted changes to U.S. federal income tax laws, certain states may change or modify the calculation of corporate taxable income at the state level.  Any resulting increase in cost due to such changes could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Future regulations relating to and interpretations of recently enacted U.S. federal income tax legislation may vary from our current interpretation of such legislation.. The U.S. federal income tax legislation recently enacted in Public Law No. 115-97, commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, is highly complex and subject to interpretation.  The presentation of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our current interpretation of the provisions contained in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.  In the future, the Treasury Department and the Internal Revenue Service are expected to release regulations relating to and interpretive guidance of the legislation contained in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.  Any significant variance of our current interpretation of such legislation from any future regulations or interpretive guidance could result in a change to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations and could negatively affect our business.. 43. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. The price of our common stock has historically been volatile, and this volatility may affect the price at which you could sell your common stock.. Our common stock began trading on the New York Stock Exchange (\"NYSE\") on June 20, 2014 and since such date the market price of our common stock has ranged from a low of $0.65 per share in February 2016 to a high of $27.18 per share in June 2014. This volatility may prevent you from being able to sell your common stock at or above the price you paid for your common stock. The market price for our common stock could continue to fluctuate significantly for various reasons, including:. •  general market conditions, including fluctuations in commodity prices;. •  our operating and financial performance and drilling locations, including reserve estimates;. •  quarterly variations in the rate of growth of our financial indicators, such as net income per share, net income and revenues;. •  the public reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC;. •  strategic actions by our competitors;. •  our failure to meet revenue, reserves or earnings estimates;. •  changes in revenue or earnings estimates, or changes in recommendations or withdrawal of research coverage, by equity research analysts;. •  speculation in the press or investment community;. •  the failure of research analysts to cover our common stock;. •  sales of our common stock by us, certain investment funds (the \"EnCap Funds\") managed by EnCap Investments L.P. (\"EnCap\") or other stockholders, or the perception that such sales may occur;. •  changes in accounting principles, policies, guidance, interpretations or standards;. •  additions or departures of key management personnel;. •  actions by our stockholders;. •  domestic and international economic, legal and regulatory factors unrelated to our performance; and. •  the realization of any risks describes under this \"Risk Factors\" section.. The stock markets in general have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the overall market and in the market price of a company's securities. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in very substantial costs, divert our management's attention and resources and harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. If we cannot meet the NYSE continued listing requirements, the NYSE may delist our common stock.. Our common stock is currently listed on the NYSE. In the future, if we are unable to meet the continued listing requirements of the NYSE, including, among other things, the requirement of maintaining a minimum average closing price of $1.00 per share over a consecutive 30 trading-day period, we would fall below compliance standards and risk having our common stock delisted.. On February 26, 2016, we received a notice from the NYSE that that the average closing price of our common stock over a consecutive 30 trading-day period as of February 22, 2016 was below $1.00 per share, and, as a result, the price per share of our common stock was below the minimum average closing price required to maintain listing on the NYSE. However, on April 1, 2016, we received a subsequent letter from the NYSE confirming that our. 44. average stock price per share over the consecutive 30 trading-day period as of March 31, 2016 was above the NYSE's minimum requirement of $1.00, and that, as a result, we were are no longer considered to be below the $1.00 per share continued listing requirement.. In the event that we are once again notified by the NYSE that we have fallen below the minimum average closing price continued listing requirement, we intend to respond to the NYSE within 10 business days of our intent to cure such deficiency. We would have six months, or in certain circumstances, until we could take stockholder action at our next annual meeting, to regain compliance. During the cure period, our common stock would continue to be listed and traded on the NYSE, subject to compliance with the other NYSE continued listing standards.. A delisting of our common stock could negatively impact us by, among other things:. •  reducing the liquidity and market price of our common stock;. •  reducing the number of investors, including institutional investors, willing to hold or acquire our common stock, which could negatively impact our ability to raise equity;. •  decreasing the amount of news and analyst coverage relating to us;. •  limiting our ability to issue additional securities, obtain additional financing or pursue strategic restructuring, refinancing or other transactions; and. •  impacting our reputation and, as a consequence, our ability to attract new business.. We are a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the NYSE rules and, as a result, qualify for, and rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. As a result, our stockholders do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to such requirements.. The EnCap Funds beneficially own a majority of our common stock. We have entered into a stockholders' agreement with the EnCap Funds and certain other stockholders, pursuant to which such stockholders have certain rights relative to designated director nominees and agreed to vote their shares of common stock in accordance with the stockholders' agreement, including as it relates to the election of directors. As a result, we are a controlled company within the meaning of the NYSE corporate governance standards. Under the NYSE rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by another person or group of persons acting together is a controlled company and may elect not to comply with certain NYSE corporate governance requirements, including the requirements that:. •  a majority of our board of directors consist of independent directors;. •  we have a nominating and governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities; and. •  we have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities.. We are currently utilizing, and intend to continue to utilize, the exemption relating to the nominating and governance committee, and we may utilize this exemption for so long as we are a controlled company. Accordingly, our stockholders do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE.. The EnCap Funds hold a substantial majority of our common stock.. The EnCap Funds, which are managed by EnCap, hold the majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock. EnCap is entitled to act separately in its own interest with respect to the shares of our common stock, and it has the voting power to elect all of the members of our board of directors and thereby control our management and affairs. In addition, EnCap has the ability to determine the outcome of all matters requiring stockholder approval, including mergers and other material transactions, and to cause or prevent a change in the composition of our board of directors or a change in control of our company that could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company. The existence of a significant stockholder may. 45. also have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers, delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in management, or limiting the ability of our other stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in the best interests of our company.. So long as EnCap continues to control a significant amount of our common stock, it will continue to be able to strongly influence all matters requiring stockholder approval, regardless of whether or not other stockholders believe that a potential transaction is in their own best interests. In any of these matters, the interests of EnCap may differ or conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. Moreover, this concentration of stock ownership may also adversely affect the trading price of our common stock to the extent investors perceive a disadvantage in owning stock of a company with a controlling stockholder.. The stockholders' agreement we entered into in connection with the completion of our IPO permits certain stockholders to designate a majority of the members of our board of directors.. In connection with the completion of our IPO, we entered into a stockholders agreement with the EnCap Funds and certain other stockholders, pursuant to which such stockholders were provided with certain rights relative to designated director nominees and agreed to vote their shares of common stock in accordance with the stockholders agreement, including as it relates to the election of directors. Certain of our directors and members of our management team control or have other relationships with such stockholders.. Conflicts of interest could arise in the future between us, on the one hand, and EnCap and its affiliates, including its portfolio companies, on the other hand, concerning, among other things, acquisitions and divestitures, potential competitive business activities or business opportunities.. EnCap is a leading provider of private equity to the independent sector of the U.S. oil and gas industry and manages investment funds that own a majority of our common stock.  From time to time, we may acquire assets from entities affiliated with EnCap, including its portfolio companies, such as the Flat Castle Acquisition, divest assets to such entities or otherwise transact business with such entities.  For example, EnCap has an interest in Caiman Energy II, LLC, which owns a significant interest in Blue Racer, a provider of firm gathering, processing and fractionation capacity for our operated acreage in the Rich Gas, Condensate and Rich Condensate Windows of the Utica Core Area. As a result, EnCap's interests with respect to matters arising in connection with our arrangements with Blue Racer may not align with our interests. EnCap and its affiliates may also, from time to time, acquire interests in businesses that directly or indirectly compete with our business, or are significant existing or potential customers.  EnCap and its affiliates may acquire or seek to acquire assets we seek to acquire, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us or may be more expensive for us to pursue.  Any actual or perceived conflicts of interest with respect to the foregoing could make us susceptible to litigation, which could result in substantial costs or divert our management's attention and resources or otherwise harm our business and adversely impact the trading price of our common stock.. The requirements of being a public company, including compliance with the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the \"Exchange Act\"), and the requirements of the Sarbanes - Oxley Act of 2002 (the \"Sarbanes - Oxley Act\"), may strain our resources, increase our costs and distract management.. We completed our IPO in June 2014. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. We also incur costs associated with our public company reporting requirements and with corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules implemented by the SEC and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. These rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. These rules and regulations also make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers.. 46. If we fail to establish and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, our ability to accurately report our financial results could be adversely affected.. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, prevent fraud and operate successfully as a public company. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results would be harmed. We cannot be certain that our efforts to develop and maintain our internal controls will be successful, that we will be able to maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or that we will be able to comply with our obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Any failure to develop or maintain effective internal controls, or difficulties encountered in implementing or improving our internal controls, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our shares of common stock.. Future sales of our common stock could reduce our stock price, and any additional capital raised by us through the sale of equity or convertible securities may dilute our stockholders' ownership in us.. We may sell additional shares of common stock in subsequent public or private offerings. We may also issue additional shares of common stock or convertible securities. As of March 2, 2018, we had 301,770,671 outstanding shares of common stock. The EnCap Funds beneficially own an aggregate of 210,778,623 shares of our common stock, or approximately 70% of our total outstanding shares, of which approximately 44,662,273 shares have been registered with the SEC for resale. Upon the closing of the Flat Castle Acquisition, we entered into a registration rights agreement with Travis Peak Resources, LLC, pursuant to which we agreed to register the resale of an additional 37,823,596 shares of our common stock issued to Travis Peak Resources, LLC, an entity affiliated with EnCap, in the Flat Castle Acquisition.  Subject to compliance with the Securities Act or exemptions therefrom, certain of our employees may sell their shares of common stock into the public market.. Subject to the satisfaction of vesting conditions and Rule 144 restrictions applicable to our affiliates, shares registered under our registration statement on Form S-8 filed on July 2, 2014 relating to our equity incentive plan are available for resale immediately in the public market without restriction.. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock or securities convertible into common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock (including shares issued in connection with an acquisition), or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, as well as Delaware law, contain provisions that could discourage acquisition bids or merger proposals, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. If our board of directors elects to issue preferred stock, it could be more difficult for a third party to acquire us. In addition, some provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the change of control would be beneficial to our stockholders, including:. •  a classified board of directors, so that only approximately one-third of our directors are elected each year;. •  limitations on the removal of directors;. •  limitations on the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings;. •  providing that the board of directors is expressly authorized to adopt, or to alter or repeal our amended and restated bylaws; and. •  establishing advance notice and information requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings.. 47. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware shall be the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers, employees or agents to us or our stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or (iv) any action asserting a claim against us governed by the internal affairs doctrine. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our common stock shall be deemed to have notice of and consented to the provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation described above. This choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors, officers and other employees. Alternatively, if a court were to find these provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock, and the credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing our senior unsecured notes place certain restrictions on our ability to do so. Consequently, your only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment is if the price of our common stock appreciates.. We do not plan to declare cash dividends on shares of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Additionally, the credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing our senior unsecured notes place certain restrictions on our ability to pay cash dividends. Consequently, your only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment in us will be if you sell your common stock at a price greater than you paid for it.. For as long as we are an emerging growth company, we will not be required to comply with certain reporting requirements, including those relating to accounting standards and disclosure about our executive compensation, that apply to other public companies.. We are classified as an \"emerging growth company\" under the JOBS Act. For as long as we are an emerging growth company, which may be up to 5 full fiscal years, unlike other public companies, we will not be required to, among other things, (1) provide an auditor's attestation report on management's assessment of the effectiveness of our system of internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, (2) comply with any new requirements adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board requiring mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditor's report in which the auditor would be required to provide additional information about the audit and the financial statements of the issuer, (3) provide certain disclosure regarding executive compensation required of larger public companies or (4) hold nonbinding advisory votes on executive compensation. We will remain an emerging growth company for up to 5 years, following our initial public offering, although we will lose that status sooner if we have more than $1.07 billion of revenues in a fiscal year, have more than $700.0 million in market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates, or issue more than $1.0 billion of non-convertible debt over a 3-year period.. We may issue preferred stock whose terms could adversely affect the voting power or value of our common stock.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our stockholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such designations, preferences, limitations and relative rights, including preferences over our common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as our board of directors may determine. The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could adversely impact the voting power or value of our common stock. For example, we might grant holders of preferred stock the right to. 48. elect some number of our directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified transactions. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we might assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of our common stock.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, if they adversely change their recommendations regarding our common stock or if our operating results do not meet their expectations, our stock price could decline.. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Moreover, if one or more of the analysts who cover our company downgrades our common stock or if our operating results do not meet their expectations, our stock price could decline."
