[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. The following are important factors which could affect our financial performance and could cause our actual results for future periods to differ materially from our anticipated results or other expectations, including those expressed in any forward-looking statements made in this Form 10-K. See the section entitled \"Forward-Looking Statements\" set forth above.. We may also refer to this disclosure to identify factors that may cause results to differ from those expressed in other forward-looking statements including those made in oral presentations, including telephone conferences and/or webcasts open to the public.. Our results depend upon the continued vitality of the markets we serve.. Economic downturns, and in particular downturns in our larger markets including the energy, foodservice, hospitality, travel, health care, food processing, pulp and paper, mining and steel industries, can adversely impact our end-users. The well completion and stimulation, oil and gas production and refinery and petrochemical plant markets served by our Global Energy segment may be impacted by substantial fluctuations in oil and gas prices; in 2015 and 2016, the Global Energy segment experienced decreased sales as a result of very challenging global energy market conditions. In recent years, the weaker global economic environment, particularly in Europe and emerging markets such as China and Brazil, has also negatively impacted many of our end-markets. Weaker economic activity may continue to adversely affect these markets. During such cycles, these end-users may reduce or discontinue their volume of purchases of cleaning and sanitizing products and water treatment and process chemicals, which has had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on our business.. Our results are impacted by general worldwide economic factors.. Economic factors such as the worldwide economy, capital flows, interest rates and currency movements, including, in particular, our exposure to foreign currency risk, have affected our business in the past and may have a material adverse impact on our business in the future. In 2011 and 2012, the European Union's sovereign debt crisis negatively impacted economic activity in that region as well as the strength of the euro versus the U.S. dollar. Additionally, the June 2016 Brexit vote resulted in a sharp decline in the value of the British pound, as compared to the U.S. dollar and other currencies, and the possibility for referendum by other EU member states may lead to further market volatility. Other regions of the world, including emerging market areas, also expose us to foreign currency risk. As a result of increasing currency controls, importation restrictions, workforce regulations, pricing constraints and local capitalization requirements, we deconsolidated our Venezuelan subsidiaries effective as of the end of the fourth quarter of 2015. Prior to deconsolidation, across the second through fourth quarters of 2015, we devalued our Venezuelan bolivar operations within our Water, Paper, Food & Beverage, Institutional and Energy operating segments. Similar currency devaluations, credit market disruptions or other economic turmoil in other countries could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial position and cash flows by negatively impacting economic activity, including in our key end-markets, and by further weakening the local currency versus the U.S. dollar, resulting in reduced sales and earnings from our foreign operations, which are generated in the local currency, and then translated to U.S. dollars.. If we are unsuccessful in executing on key business initiatives, including our Enterprise Resource Planning (\"ERP\") system upgrade, our business could be adversely affected.. We continue to execute key business initiatives, including investments to develop business systems and restructurings such as those discussed under Note 3 entitled \"Special (Gains) and Charges\" of this Form 10-K, as part of our ongoing efforts to improve our efficiency and returns. In particular, we are implementing an ERP system upgrade, which is expected to occur in phases over the next several years. This upgrade, which includes supply chain and certain finance functions, is expected to improve the efficiency of certain financial and related transactional processes. The upgrade involves complex business process design and a failure of certain of these processes could result in business disruption. If the projects in which we are investing or the initiatives which we are pursuing are not successfully executed, our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows could be adversely affected.. 15. Table of Contents. We may be subject to information technology system failures, network disruptions and breaches in data security.. We rely to a large extent upon information technology systems and infrastructure to operate our business. The size and complexity of our information technology systems make them potentially vulnerable to failure, malicious intrusion and random attack. The Nalco and Champion transactions, as well as more recent acquisitions, have resulted in further de-centralization of systems and additional complexity in our systems infrastructure. Likewise, data security breaches by employees and others with permitted access to our systems may pose a risk that sensitive data may be exposed to unauthorized persons or to the public. While we have invested in protection of data and information technology, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent failures, cybersecurity attacks or breaches in our systems that could cause reputational damage, business disruption and legal and regulatory costs; could result in third-party claims; could result in compromise or misappropriation of our intellectual property, trade secrets and sensitive information; or could otherwise adversely affect our business. There may be other related challenges and risks as we continue to implement our ERP system upgrade.. We depend on key personnel to lead our business.. Our continued success will largely depend on our ability to attract and retain a high caliber of talent and on the efforts and abilities of our executive officers and certain other key employees, particularly those with sales and sales management responsibilities. This is especially crucial as we continue the integration of new businesses, which may be led by personnel that we believe are critical to the success of the integration and the prospects of the business. Our operations could be adversely affected if for any reason we were unable to attract or retain such officers or key employees.. Our significant non-U.S. operations expose us to global economic, political and legal risks that could impact our profitability.. We have significant operations outside the United States, including joint ventures and other alliances. We conduct business in approximately 170 countries and, in 2017, approximately 47% of our net sales originated outside the United States. There are inherent risks in our international operations, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\texchange controls and currency restrictions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcurrency fluctuations and devaluations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ttariffs and trade barriers;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\texport duties and quotas;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in the availability and pricing of raw materials, energy and utilities;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in local economic conditions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in laws and regulations, including the imposition of economic or trade sanctions affecting international commercial transactions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\timpact from Brexit and the possibility of similar events in other EU member states;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulties in managing international operations and the burden of complying with foreign laws;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trequirements to include local ownership or management in our business;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\teconomic and business objectives that differ from those of our joint venture partners;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\texposure to possible expropriation, nationalization or other government actions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trestrictions on our ability to repatriate dividends from our subsidiaries;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tunsettled political conditions, military action, civil unrest, acts of terrorism, force majeure, war or other armed conflict; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcountries whose governments have been hostile to U.S.-based businesses.. Also, because of uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of laws and regulations and the enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights, we face risks in some countries that our intellectual property rights and contract rights would not be enforced by local governments. We are also periodically faced with the risk of economic uncertainty, which has impacted our business in some countries. Other risks in international business also include difficulties in staffing and managing local operations, including managing credit risk to local customers and distributors.. Further, our operations outside the United States require us to comply with a number of United States and international regulations, including anti-corruption laws such as the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the United Kingdom Bribery Act, as well as U.S. and international economic sanctions regulations. We have internal policies and procedures relating to such regulations; however, there is risk that such policies and procedures will not always protect us from the misconduct or reckless acts of employees or representatives, particularly in the case of recently acquired operations that may not have significant training in applicable compliance policies and procedures. Violations of such laws and regulations could result in disruptive investigations of the Company, significant fines and sanctions, which could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.. Our overall success as a global business depends, in part, upon our ability to succeed in differing economic, social, legal and political conditions. We may not continue to succeed in developing and implementing policies and strategies that are effective in each location where we do business, which could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.. Our growth depends upon our ability to successfully compete with respect to value, innovation and customer support.. Our competitive market is made up of numerous global, national, regional and local competitors. Our ability to compete depends in part upon our ability to maintain a superior technological capability and to continue to identify, develop and commercialize innovative, high value-added products for niche applications and commercial digital applications. There can be no assurance that we will be able to accomplish this or that technological developments by our competitors will not place certain of our products at a competitive. 16. Table of Contents. disadvantage in the future. In addition, certain of the new products that we have under development will be offered in markets in which we do not currently compete, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in those new markets. If we fail to introduce new technologies or commercialize our digital offerings on a timely basis, we may lose market share and our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows could be adversely affected.. Our business depends on our ability to comply with laws and governmental regulations, and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations.. Our business is subject to numerous laws and regulations relating to the environment, including evolving climate change standards, and to the manufacture, storage, distribution, sale and use of our products as well as to the conduct of our business generally, including employment and labor laws. Compliance with these laws and regulations exposes us to potential financial liability and increases our operating costs. Regulation of our products and operations continues to increase with more stringent standards, causing increased costs of operations and potential for liability if a violation occurs. The potential cost to us relating to environmental and product registration laws and regulations is uncertain due to factors such as the unknown magnitude and type of possible contamination and clean-up costs, the complexity and evolving nature of laws and regulations, and the timing and expense of compliance. Changes to current laws (including tax laws), regulations and policies could impose new restrictions, costs or prohibitions on our current practices which would adversely affect our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Changes to labor and employment laws and regulations, as well as related rulings by courts and administrative bodies, could adversely affect our operations and expose us to potential financial liability.. Our results could be adversely affected by difficulties in securing the supply of certain raw materials or by fluctuations in the cost of raw materials.. The prices of raw materials used in our business can fluctuate from time to time, and in recent years we have experienced periods of increased raw material costs. Changes in raw material prices, unavailability of adequate and reasonably priced raw materials or substitutes for those raw materials, or the inability to obtain or renew supply agreements on favorable terms can adversely affect our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows. In addition, volatility and disruption in economic activity and conditions could disrupt or delay the performance of our suppliers and thus impact our ability to obtain raw materials at favorable prices or on favorable terms, which may adversely affect our business.. Consolidation of our customers and vendors could affect our results.. Customers and vendors in the foodservice, hospitality, travel, healthcare, energy, food processing and pulp and paper industries, as well as other industries we serve, have consolidated in recent years and that trend may continue. This consolidation could have an adverse impact on our ability to retain customers and on our margins and consolidated results of operations.. Our subsidiaries are defendants in pending lawsuits alleging negligence and injury resulting from the use of our COREXIT dispersant in response to the Deepwater Horizon oil spill, which could expose us to monetary damages or settlement costs.. Our subsidiaries were named as defendants in pending lawsuits alleging negligence and injury resulting from the use of our COREXIT dispersant in response to the Deepwater Horizon oil spill, which could expose us to monetary damages or settlement costs. On April 22, 2010, the deepwater drilling platform, the Deepwater Horizon, operated by a subsidiary of BP plc, sank in the Gulf of Mexico after a catastrophic explosion and fire that began on April 20, 2010. A massive oil spill resulted. Approximately one week following the incident, subsidiaries of BP plc, under the authorization of the responding federal agencies, formally requested our indirect subsidiary, Nalco Company, to supply large quantities of COREXIT 9500, a Nalco oil dispersant product listed on the U.S. EPA National Contingency Plan Product Schedule. Nalco Company responded immediately by providing available COREXIT and increasing production to supply the product to BP's subsidiaries for use, as authorized and directed by agencies of the federal government.. Nalco Company and certain affiliates (collectively \"Nalco\") were named as a defendant in a series of class action and individual plaintiff lawsuits arising from this event. The plaintiffs in these matters claimed damages under products liability, tort and other theories. Nalco was also named as a third party defendant in certain matters. Nalco was indemnified in these matters by another of the defendants.. These cases were administratively transferred to a judge in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana with other related cases under In Re: Oil Spill by the Oil Rig \"Deepwater Horizon\" in the Gulf of Mexico, on April 20, 2010, Case No. 10-md-02179 (E.D. La.) (the \"MDL\").. Nalco Company, the incident defendants and the other responder defendants have been named as third party defendants by Transocean Deepwater Drilling, Inc. and its affiliates (the \"Transocean Entities\") (In re the Complaint and Petition of Triton Asset Leasing GmbH, et al, MDL No. 2179, Civil Action 10-2771). In April and May 2011, the Transocean Entities, Cameron International Corporation, Halliburton Energy Services, Inc., M-I L.L.C., Weatherford U.S., L.P. and Weatherford International, Inc. (collectively, the \"Cross Claimants\") filed cross claims in MDL 2179 against Nalco Company and other unaffiliated cross defendants. The Cross Claimants generally allege, among other things, that if they are found liable for damages resulting from the Deepwater Horizon explosion, oil spill and/or spill response, they are entitled to indemnity or contribution from the cross defendants.. On November 28, 2012, the Federal Court in the MDL entered an order dismissing all claims against Nalco. Because claims remained pending against other defendants, the Court's decision was not a \"final judgment\" for purposes of appeal. Plaintiffs will have 30 days after entry of final judgment to appeal the Court's decision. We cannot predict whether there will be an appeal of the dismissal, the involvement we might have in these matters in the future or the potential for future litigation. However, if an appeal by plaintiffs in these. 17. Table of Contents. lawsuits is brought and won, these suits could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.. In December 2012 and January 2013, the MDL court issued final orders approving two settlements between BP and Plaintiffs' Class Counsel: (1) a proposed Medical Benefits Class Action Settlement; and (2) a proposed Economic and Property Damages Class Action Settlement. Pursuant to the proposed settlements, class members agree to release claims against BP and other released parties, including Nalco Company and its related entities.. Nalco was named in nine additional complaints in May 2016, and two additional complaints in April 2017, filed by individuals alleging, among other things, business and economic loss resulting from the Deepwater Horizon oil spill. The plaintiffs in these lawsuits are generally seeking awards of unspecified compensatory and punitive damages, and attorneys' fees and costs.  These actions have been consolidated in the MDL. Certain of these complaints were dismissed on July 19, 2017.. On February 22, 2017, the Federal Court in the MDL ordered that plaintiffs who had previously filed a claim and who had \"opted out\" of and not released their claims under the Medical Benefits Class Action Settlement either: (1) complete a sworn statement indicating, among other things, that they opted out of the Medical Benefits Class Action Settlement (to be completed by plaintiffs who previously filed an individual complaint); or (2) file an individual lawsuit attaching the sworn statement as an exhibit, by a deadline date set by the Court.  On July 18, 2017, the Court dismissed certain claims not complying with such order.. There currently remain nine cases pending against Nalco. We expect they will be dismissed pursuant to the Court's November 28, 2012 order granting Nalco's motion for summary judgment.. Nalco continues to sell the COREXIT oil dispersant product and could be exposed to future lawsuits from the use of such product. We cannot predict the potential for future litigation with respect to such sales. However, if one or more of such lawsuits are brought and won, these suits could have a material adverse impact on our financial results.. We enter into multi-year contracts with customers that could impact our results.. Our multi-year contracts with some of our customers include terms affecting our pricing flexibility. There can be no assurance that these restraints will not have an adverse impact on our margins and consolidated results of operations.. If we are unsuccessful in integrating acquisitions, our business could be adversely affected.. As part of our long-term strategy, we seek to acquire complementary businesses. There can be no assurance that we will find attractive acquisition candidates or succeed at effectively managing the integration of acquired businesses into existing businesses. If the underlying business performance of such acquired businesses deteriorates, the expected synergies from such transactions do not materialize or we fail to successfully integrate new businesses into our existing businesses, our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows could be adversely affected.. Changes in tax laws and unanticipated tax liabilities could adversely affect the taxes we pay and our profitability.. We are subject to income and other taxes in the United States and foreign jurisdictions, and our operations, plans and results are affected by tax and other initiatives around the world. In particular, we are affected by the impact of changes to tax laws or related authoritative interpretations in the United States, including tax reform under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\") signed by the President of the United States on December 22, 2017, which includes broad and complex changes to the United States tax code and the state tax response to the Tax Act, including, but not limited to variability in our future tax rate. We are also subject to changes in tax law outside the United States, such as interpretation as to the legality of tax advantages granted under the European Union state aid rules. In addition, we are impacted by settlements of pending or any future adjustments proposed by the IRS or other taxing authorities in connection with our tax audits, all of which will depend on their timing, nature and scope. Increases in income tax rates, changes in income tax laws or unfavorable resolution of tax matters could have a material adverse impact on our financial results.. Future events may impact our deferred tax position, including the utilization of foreign tax credits and undistributed earnings of international affiliates that are considered to be reinvested indefinitely.. We evaluate the recoverability of deferred tax assets and the need for deferred tax liabilities based on available evidence. This process involves significant management judgment about assumptions that are subject to change from period to period based on changes in tax laws or variances between future projected operating performance and actual results. We are required to establish a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets if we determine, based on available evidence at the time the determination is made, that it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. In making this determination, we evaluate all positive and negative evidence as of the end of each reporting period. Future adjustments (either increases or decreases), to the deferred tax asset valuation allowance are determined based upon changes in the expected realization of the net deferred tax assets. The realization of the deferred tax assets ultimately depends on the existence of sufficient taxable income in either the carry-back or carry-forward periods under the tax law. Due to significant estimates used to establish the valuation allowance and the potential for changes in facts and circumstances, it is reasonably possible that we will be required to record adjustments to the valuation allowance in future reporting periods. Changes to the valuation allowance or the amount of deferred tax liabilities could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations or financial position. Further, should we change our assertion regarding the permanent reinvestment of the undistributed earnings of international affiliates, a deferred tax liability may need to be established.. 18. Table of Contents. Our indebtedness may limit our operations and our use of our cash flow, and any failure to comply with the covenants that apply to our indebtedness could adversely affect our liquidity and financial statements.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $7.3 billion in outstanding indebtedness, with approximately $1.0 billion in the form of floating rate debt. Our debt level and related debt service obligations may have negative consequences, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trequiring us to dedicate significant cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, which reduces the funds we have available for other purposes such as acquisitions and capital investment;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\treducing our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and market conditions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\texposing us to interest rate risk since a portion of our debt obligations are at variable rates. For example, a one percentage point increase in the average interest rate on our floating rate debt at December 31, 2017 would increase future interest expense by approximately $10 million per year; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincreasing our cost of funds and adversely affecting our liquidity and access to the capital markets should we fail to maintain the credit ratings assigned to us by independent rating agencies.. If we add new debt, the risks described above could increase.. Severe public health outbreaks may adversely impact our business.. Our business could be adversely affected by the effect of a public health epidemic. The United States and other countries have experienced, and may experience in the future, public health outbreaks such as Zika virus, Avian Flu, SARS and H1N1 influenza. A prolonged occurrence of a contagious disease such as these could result in a significant downturn in the foodservice, hospitality and travel industries and also may result in health or other government authorities imposing restrictions on travel further impacting our end markets. Any of these events could result in a significant drop in demand for some of our products and services and adversely affect our business.. We incur significant expenses related to the amortization of intangible assets and may be required to report losses resulting from the impairment of goodwill or other assets recorded in connection with the Nalco and Champion transactions and other acquisitions.. We expect to continue to complete selected acquisitions and joint venture transactions in the future. In connection with acquisition and joint venture transactions, applicable accounting rules generally require the tangible and intangible assets of the acquired business to be recorded on the balance sheet of the acquiring company at their fair values. Intangible assets other than goodwill are required to be amortized over their estimated useful lives and this expense may be significant. Any excess in the purchase price paid by the acquiring company over the fair value of tangible and intangible assets of the acquired business is recorded as goodwill. If it is later determined that the anticipated future cash flows from the acquired business may be less than the carrying values of the assets and goodwill of the acquired business, the assets or goodwill may be deemed to be impaired. In this case, the acquiring company may be required under applicable accounting rules to write down the value of the assets or goodwill on its balance sheet to reflect the extent of the impairment. This write-down of assets or goodwill is generally recognized as a non-cash expense in the statement of operations of the acquiring company for the accounting period during which the write down occurs. As of December 31, 2017, we had goodwill of $7.2 billion which is maintained in various reporting units, including goodwill from the Nalco and Champion transactions. If we determine that any of the assets or goodwill recorded in connection with the Nalco and Champion transactions or any other prior or future acquisitions or joint venture transactions have become impaired, we will be required to record a loss resulting from the impairment. Impairment losses could be significant and could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations and financial position.. A chemical spill or release could adversely impact our business.. As a manufacturer and supplier of chemical products, there is a potential for chemicals to be accidentally spilled, released or discharged, either in liquid or gaseous form, during production, transportation, storage or use. Such a release could result in environmental contamination as well as a human or animal health hazard. Accordingly, such a release could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.. Extraordinary events may significantly impact our business.. The occurrence of (a) litigation or claims, (b) the loss or insolvency of a major customer or distributor, (c) war (including acts of terrorism or hostilities which impact our markets), (d) natural or manmade disasters, (e) water shortages or (f) severe weather conditions affecting the energy, foodservice, hospitality and travel industries may have a material adverse effect on our business.. Defense of litigation, particularly certain types of actions such as antitrust, patent infringement, wage hour and class action lawsuits, can be costly and time consuming even if ultimately successful, and if not successful could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.. 19. Table of Contents. While we have a diverse customer base and no customer or distributor constitutes 10 percent or more of our consolidated revenues, we do have customers and independent, third-party distributors, the loss of which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations or cash flows for the affected earnings periods.. War (including acts of terrorism or hostilities), natural or manmade disasters, water shortages or severe weather conditions affecting the energy, foodservice, hospitality, travel, health care, food processing, pulp and paper, mining, steel and other industries can cause a downturn in the business of our customers, which in turn can have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows."                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
