[1] "ITEM 1A.  Risk Factors. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with the other information contained in this Annual Report, including our financial statements and the related notes appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report, before making your decision to invest in shares of our common stock. We cannot assure you that any of the events discussed in the risk factors below will not occur. These risks could have a material and adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows and our future prospects would likely be materially and adversely affected. If that were to happen, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment.. Risks Related to the Development and Regulatory Approval of Our Product Candidates. We depend almost entirely on the potential success of one product candidate, EG-1962, which is in Phase 3 clinical development. We cannot be certain that we will be able to successfully develop or obtain regulatory approval for EG-1962 or any other product candidate.. We currently have only one late stage product candidate, EG-1962, in clinical development, and our business depends almost entirely on its successful clinical development, regulatory approval and commercialization. We currently have no drug products for sale and may never be able to develop marketable drug products. EG-1962 will require substantial additional clinical development, testing, and regulatory approval before we are permitted to commence its commercialization. Our only other product candidates, EG-1964 and EG-1965, are still in pre-clinical development. The clinical studies of our product candidates are and will be, and the manufacturing and marketing of our product candidates are and will be, subject to extensive and rigorous review and regulation by numerous government authorities in the United States and in other countries where we intend to investigate and, if approved, market any product candidate. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any product candidate, we must successfully meet a number of critical developmental milestones.  For example, for EG-1962, these include:. <U+25CF>  providing adequate and well-controlled data that the product candidate is safe and effective and shows a significant benefit over the active comparator in patients for the intended indication;. <U+25CF>  demonstrating that the product candidate formulation is reproducible and can meet the relevant release specifications for each market we intend to commercialize in; and. <U+25CF>  completing the development and scale-up to permit manufacture of our product candidates in commercial quantities and at acceptable prices.. The time necessary to achieve these developmental milestones for any individual product candidate is long and uncertain, and we may not successfully complete these milestones for EG-1962 or any other product candidates that we may develop.. We are continuing to test and develop our product candidates and may explore possible design or formulation changes to address safety, efficacy, manufacturing efficiency and performance issues. We may not be able to finalize the design or formulation of any product candidate. In addition, we may select components, solvents, excipients or other ingredients to include in our product candidates that have not previously been used in approved pharmaceutical products, which may require us to perform additional studies and may delay clinical testing and regulatory approval of our product candidates.  We may not be able to complete development of any product candidates that will be safe and effective and that will have a commercially reasonable treatment and storage period. If we are unable to complete development of EG-1962, or any other product candidates that we may develop, we will not be able to commercialize and earn revenue from them.. We cannot be certain that our NEWTON 2 Phase 3 clinical study of EG-1962 will be sufficient to support the submission of a marketing application for this product candidate, and in any event we may be required to obtain additional clinical and non-clinical data before a complete marketing application may be submitted.. In general, the FDA requires two adequate and well-controlled trials to support approval of an NDA, but in certain circumstances, will approve an NDA based on one adequate and well-controlled trial and confirmatory evidence based on the proposed indication and robustness of data from the single pivotal study.  If successful, we believe the results from our NEWTON 2 Phase 3 clinical study of EG-1962, together with safety and efficacy data from the EG-1962 development program, could form the basis of an NDA submission in the United States using the FDA 505(b)(2) pathway for EG-1962. However, depending upon the outcome of the current program, the FDA and/or other global health authorities may require that we provide additional data, including possibly additional clinical studies, before we can submit a marketing application for EG-1962.. The regulatory approval processes of the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities are inherently unpredictable, and if our product candidates are subject to multiple cycles of review or we are ultimately unable to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, including EG-1962, our business will be substantially harmed. In addition, the regulatory approval processes can delay our clinical trials, which can jeopardize our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products.. Page | 34. Index. Of the large number of drugs in development in the United States, only a small percentage successfully complete the FDA regulatory approval process and are commercialized. We are not permitted to market any of our product candidates in the United States or in other global markets until we receive approval of an NDA from the FDA or the requisite approval from such other global regulatory authorities. The NEWTON 2 study may, if successful, support and form the basis of approval for the global marketing applications for EG-1962.  Successfully completing a Phase 3 clinical study and obtaining approval of an NDA is complex, lengthy, and expensive. The FDA or a comparable foreign regulatory authority may delay, limit or deny approval of EG-1962 for many reasons, including, among others:. <U+25CF>  disagreement with, or disapproval of, the design of, procedures for, or implementation of, our clinical trials;. <U+25CF>  our inability to comply with conditions imposed by a regulatory authority regarding the scope or design of a clinical trial;. <U+25CF>  our failure to obtain institutional review board, or IRB, approval or the approval of other reviewing entities, including FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities, to conduct a clinical trial at each site;. <U+25CF>  disagreement with the sufficiency of the final content and data included in our marketing application;. <U+25CF>  feedback from the FDA or a comparable foreign regulatory authority, an IRB or DMC, on results from earlier stage or concurrent preclinical and clinical studies, that might require modification to the protocol;. <U+25CF>  decision by the FDA, a comparable foreign regulatory authority, an IRB, or recommendation by the DMC or us to suspend or terminate clinical trials at any time for safety issues or for any other reason;. <U+25CF>  challenges in meeting regulatory requirements to commence clinical trials in countries outside the United States;. <U+25CF>  failure to conduct the trial in accordance with regulatory requirements;. <U+25CF>  failure to demonstrate that EG-1962 provides an overall benefit to risk or significant enough improvement over the comparator in the proposed indication;. <U+25CF>  failure of EG-1962 to demonstrate efficacy at the level of statistical significance required for approval;. <U+25CF>  a negative interpretation of the data from our preclinical studies or clinical trials;. <U+25CF>  deficiencies in the manufacturing processes or failure of third party manufacturing facilities with whom we contract for clinical and commercial supplies to effectively and consistently manufacture product under cGMP;. <U+25CF>  failure to demonstrate adequate and reproducible product stability to support product commercialization;. <U+25CF>  failure of our CMOs to successfully pass a FDA preapproval inspection or similar regulatory inspection prior to commercial approval;. <U+25CF>  failure of Edge and our CMOs to adequately develop and characterize our drug product and/or our active pharmaceutical ingredient;. <U+25CF>  failure to adequately demonstrate process performance qualification prior to product commercialization;. <U+25CF>  inability to validate analytical and microbiological methods consistent with industry and government agency expectations;. <U+25CF>  failure of our CMOs to provide integral data used to compile our regulatory submissions;. <U+25CF>  insufficient data collected from clinical studies of EG-1962, or changes in the approval policies or regulations that render our preclinical and clinical data insufficient to support the submission and filing of a marketing authorization application or to obtain regulatory approval;. <U+25CF>  Failure to overcome the orphan exclusivity of (1) Nymalize, an oral nimodipine solution, for which the FDA granted market exclusivity in 2013 for the orphan-designated aSAH indication for which Nymalize obtained marketing approval or (2) any other drug, such as the orphan-designated nimodipine-based intravenous drug currently under development by Grace Therapeutics, should such drug be considered the same drug as EG-1962, obtain marketing approval for the treatment of aSAH before EG-1962, and obtain orphan exclusivity for that indication. The orphan drug marketing exclusivity for Nymalize expires in May 2020; or. <U+25CF>  changes in governmental regulations or administrative actions.. Page | 35. Index. The FDA or a comparable foreign regulatory authority may require more information, including additional preclinical or clinical data to support approval, which may delay or prevent approval and our commercialization plans, or cause us to abandon the development program. Even if we obtain regulatory approval, our product candidates may be approved for fewer or more limited indications than we request, such approval may be contingent on the performance of costly post-approval clinical trials, or we may not be allowed to include the labeling claims necessary or desirable for the successful commercialization of such product candidate. For instance, it is possible that EG-1962 could be approved but fail to replace nimodipine as the new standard of care for treating patients with an aSAH. In addition, if EG-1962 produces undesirable side effects or safety issues, the FDA may require the establishment of a REMS, including Elements to Ensure Safe Use, which are the most extensive elements of a REMS plan. Additionally, a comparable foreign regulatory authority may require the establishment of a similar strategy that may, for instance, restrict distribution of our products and impose burdensome implementation requirements on us.. Further, if we experience delays in the completion of, or termination of, any clinical trial of our product candidates, the commercial prospects of our product candidates will be harmed, and our ability to generate product revenues from any of these product candidates will be delayed or may not happen at all. In addition, any delays in completing our clinical trials will increase our costs, slow down our product candidate development and approval process and jeopardize our ability to commence product sales and generate revenues. Any of these occurrences may significantly harm our business, financial condition and prospects. In addition, many of the factors that cause, or lead to, a delay in the commencement or completion of clinical trials may also ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory approval of our product candidates.. Clinical drug development involves a lengthy and expensive process with an uncertain outcome, and results of earlier studies and trials and non-head-to-head analysis (e.g., historical comparisons) may not be predictive of future trial results.. Clinical testing is expensive and can take many years to complete, and its outcome is inherently uncertain. Failure can occur at any time during the clinical trial process. The results of preclinical studies and early clinical trials of our product candidates may not be predictive of the results of later-stage clinical trials, including with respect to EG-1962. Moreover, an assessment by the DMC to continue to the study at the futility or interim analyses is no indication that the trial will be successful. Due to, among other things, the small sample size of the data we have to date for EG-1962, there can be no assurance that our initial positive results will be indicative of results in future clinical trials with a larger and more diverse patient population and with a double-blind, double dummy trial design, such as our NEWTON 2 Phase 3 study.  Furthermore, there can be no assurance that non-head-to-head analyses (e.g., historical comparisons) will be predictive of future trial results.  Many companies in the biotechnology industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials due to lack of efficacy, failure by the study drug to demonstrate sufficiently improved efficacy over a comparator arm, or adverse safety profiles, notwithstanding promising results in earlier trials. Our future clinical trials may not be successful.. The results of clinical trials may not support our product candidate claims.. Even if our clinical studies are completed as planned, we cannot be certain that their results will support our proposed product candidate claims, that the FDA or government authorities in other countries will agree with our conclusions regarding such results, or that the FDA or governmental authorities in other countries will not require additional clinical trials.  The clinical trial process may fail to demonstrate that our product candidates show sufficient improved efficacy compared to standard of care to support approval or commercialization of any product candidate, or that they are safe for humans for indicated uses. This failure could cause us to abandon a product candidate and may delay development of other product candidates. Any delay in, or termination of, our clinical trials will delay or prevent the filing of our marketing application with the FDA or other global health authorities and, ultimately, our ability to commercialize our product candidates and generate product revenues.. We may be required to suspend or discontinue clinical trials for a number of reasons, which could preclude approval of any of our product candidates.. Our clinical trials may be suspended at any time for a number of reasons. A clinical trial may be suspended or terminated by us, an IRB, the FDA or other regulatory authorities due to a failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or our clinical protocols, presentation of unforeseen safety issues, failure to demonstrate a benefit from using the investigational drug, changes in governmental regulations or administrative actions, lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial, or for other business-related reasons. In addition, clinical trials for our product candidates could be suspended due to adverse side effects. Although we are primarily concerned with hypotension in our clinical trials for EG-1962, we may also observe inflammation, infection, unacceptable elevated intracranial pressure or hydrocephalus or other unknown effects resulting from the delivery, in a single administration, of sustained concentrations of nimodipine directly to the site of injury in the brain.  Other drug-related side effects could affect patient recruitment or the ability of enrolled patients to complete the trial or result in potential product liability claims. We may also voluntarily suspend or terminate our clinical trials if at any time we believe that they present an unacceptable risk to patients. If we elect or are forced to suspend or terminate any clinical trial of any product candidates that we develop, the commercial prospects of such product candidates will be harmed and our ability to generate product revenues from any of these product candidates will be delayed or eliminated. Any of these occurrences may significantly harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Page | 36. Index. Preliminary or interim results of a clinical trial are not necessarily predictive of future or final results.. On December 29, 2017, we announced that the DMC recommended that the NEWTON 2 study of EG-1962 continue as planned based on the completion of a pre-planned futility analysis. The DMC made this recommendation after evaluating data from the 90 day follow-up visit of the first 150 patients randomized and treated, as well as the available safety data in the study. A pre-planned interim analysis will be performed following the 90 day outcome assessment of the 210th patient. We expect to complete the NEWTON 2 interim analysis by the end of  April 2018 with an announcement of the results to follow.  Upon completion of this interim analysis, the DMC may recommend continuing enrollment of the study up to 374 completed patients; ending the study early, as efficacy will have been established at a highly statistically significant level at the time of such interim analysis; or discontinuing enrollment of additional patients, but analyzing all currently enrolled and completed patients.  We believe the likelihood that the DMC will recommend that we end the study early is extremely low.  There is no formal futility analysis built into the interim analysis.  However, as per the DMC charter, the DMC may recommend amending or terminating the NEWTON 2 study for safety concerns or  based on a benefit : risk assessment that does not justify additional subject enrollment.  If the DMC does not recommend that we end the study early based on highly positive statistical significance, the study is expected to continue to full data readout, in which case we expect the results of the study to be available in late 2018.. Interim or preliminary data from clinical trials that we may conduct may not be indicative of the final results of the trial and are subject to the risk that one or more of the clinical outcomes may materially change as patient enrollment continues and more patient data become available. Interim or preliminary data also remain subject to audit and verification procedures that may result in the final data being materially different from the interim or preliminary data. As a result, interim or preliminary data should be viewed with caution until the final data are available. Even if our clinical trials are completed as planned, we cannot be certain that their results will support our proposed indications.. Approval of EG-1962 could be more costly and take longer than anticipated as a result of Nymalize's existing orphan drug exclusivity or any other drug's orphan drug exclusivity that could delay commercialization of EG-1962.. Regulatory authorities in some jurisdictions, including the US and EU, may designate drugs for the treatment or prevention of rare diseases or conditions with relatively small patient populations as orphan drugs. Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may designate a product as an orphan drug if it is a drug intended to treat a rare disease or condition, which is generally defined as a patient population of fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States. In the EU, a drug may be granted orphan designation if the product is intended to treat a life-threatening or chronically debilitating condition affecting not more than five in 10,000 individuals in the EU or if the product is intended for the diagnosis, prevention or treatment of a life-threatening, seriously debilitating or serious and chronic condition in the EU and that without incentives it is unlikely that the marketing of the medicinal product in the EU would generate sufficient return to justify the necessary investment. Furthermore, the sponsor must also establish that there exists no satisfactory authorized method of treatment of the condition or even if such treatment exists, the product will be of significant benefit to those affected by that condition.. In the United States, if a product with an orphan drug designation subsequently receives the first marketing approval for the indication for which it has such designation, the product is entitled to a seven-year period of marketing exclusivity, which precludes the FDA from approving another marketing application for the same drug for the same indication for that time period absent a demonstration of clinical superiority. A similar provision in EU law allows ten years of market exclusivity attaching to the granted marketing authorization during which EEA regulators are not permitted to accept another application for a market approval or accept an application for line-extension for the same therapeutic indication in respect of a similar medicinal product. The ten-year orphan market exclusivity can be extended to a total of twelve years following satisfactory completion of the agreed studies set out in the pediatric investigation plan.. The market exclusivity period can be reduced to six years if at the end of the fifth year of that period, a drug no longer meets the criteria for orphan drug designation or if the drug is sufficiently profitable so that maintenance of the orphan designation and accordingly the marketing exclusivity is no longer justified. Orphan drug exclusivity may be lost if the FDA or the EMA determines that the request for designation was materially defective or if the FDA subsequently finds that the drug in fact had not been eligible for orphan drug designation at the time of submission of the request. In the EU, the conditions for orphan designation must be confirmed by the EMA and its Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products before market approval is granted. The designated orphan medicinal product will be removed from the Community Registry of Orphan Medicinal Products if the criteria are no longer met.. Page | 37. Index. If a drug is approved for an orphan indication, the FDA will not designate as an orphan another drug deemed the \"same drug\" for the same use as the approved orphan drug unless the sponsor of the new drug provides a plausible hypothesis that its new drug is clinically superior to the approved orphan drug. For small molecule drugs, FDA defines \"same drug\" to mean a drug that contains the same active moiety (meaning the molecule or ion of the molecule, responsible for the physiological or pharmacological action of the drug substance) as the previously approved drug, even if the particular ester or salt or other noncovalent derivative has not previously been approved. Clinical superiority means that the drug is shown to provide a significant therapeutic advantage over and above the approved same drug and can be established on the basis of greater safety, greater effectiveness, or, in unusual cases where neither greater safety nor greater effectiveness is shown, on the basis of a major contribution to patient care. Similarly, in the EU and the EEA, the orphan market exclusivity may be broken or otherwise derogated from in the following circumstances: (a) if the second product is not considered similar; (b) the second applicant can establish in the application that the second similar medicinal product is safer, more effective or otherwise clinically superior including a major contribution to patient care; or (c) the holder of the MA for the first authorized orphan drug is unable to supply sufficient quantities of the medicinal product.. Of relevance to Edge, oral nimodipine (in the form of gelcaps) was approved for the improvement of neurological outcome by reducing the incidence and severity of ischemic deficits in patients with an aSAH in 1988 as Nimotop and subsequently was approved in a generic version in 2007. Nimotop has now been discontinued from marketing, and the FDA has determined that it was not discontinued for safety or effectiveness reasons. In September 2011, OOPD granted Nymalize, an oral nimodipine solution, orphan drug designation for the treatment of subarachnoid hemorrhage.  Subsequently, in May 2013, the FDA approved Nymalize for the treatment of subarachnoid hemorrhage, thereby granting the oral nimodipine solution seven years of marketing exclusivity until May 2020. In order for us to obtain marketing approval for EG-1962 for the same aSAH indication as Nymalize during the period of marketing exclusivity for Nymalize (e.g., up until May 2020) and to obtain orphan drug exclusivity for EG-1962 for the treatment of aSAH at any time, we will need to demonstrate the clinical superiority of EG-1962 to the oral nimodipine solution or demonstrate that EG-1962 is otherwise not the \"same drug\" as Nymalize as that term is defined in FDA's Orphan Drug regulations. We intend to demonstrate that EG-1962 is clinically superior to the oral nimodipine solution by demonstrating superiority over oral nimodipine gelcaps and tablets in a head-to-head comparison in our NEWTON 2 Phase 3 study. To the extent the OOPD disagrees that we can demonstrate the clinical superiority of EG-1962 to Nymalize by demonstrating the superiority of EG-1962 to oral nimodipine gelatin capsules (a Nimotop generic) and requires us to include a head-to-head comparison of EG-1962 and Nymalize, our Phase 3 program would be more costly and may take longer than is currently anticipated or we may be required to delay the commercial launch of EG-1962 in the United States until Nymalize's orphan drug exclusivity expires in May 2020.. In addition, for EG-1962 to be awarded its own 7-year period of orphan drug exclusivity upon approval, FDA could require that Edge demonstrate clinical superiority over both Nimotop and Nymalize, as well as over any other nimodipine same drugs that might obtain marketing approval prior to EG-1962 obtaining marketing approval. Even if we obtain orphan drug exclusivity for a product such as EG-1962, that exclusivity may not effectively protect the product from competition because different drugs can be approved for the same condition or another sponsor's nimodipine drug product may prove clinically superior to EG-1962.. We are aware that an intravenous drug containing nimodipine is under development by Grace Therapeutics and that Grace Therapeutics has announced it plans to file an NDA on such drug in the first half of 2018.  Grace Therapeutics has received orphan drug designation, but not orphan drug exclusivity, for this drug for the treatment of SAH.  Should Grace Therapeutics' nimodipine drug be considered the same drug as EG-1962 and Grace Therapeutics obtains marketing approval and orphan drug exclusivity for its drug before EG-1962 is approved, EG-1962 may be delayed from entering the market until seven years after the Grace Therapeutics drug received its orphan drug exclusivity unless Edge is able to demonstrate that EG-1962 is clinically superior to Grace Therapeutics' drug.. A Fast Track designation by the FDA may not actually lead to a faster development or regulatory review or approval process.. We received Fast Track designation for EG-1962 from the FDA in May 2016. We may not experience a faster development process, review or approval compared to conventional FDA procedures. The FDA may withdraw Fast Track designation if it believes that the designation is no longer supported by data from our clinical development program.. Even if our product candidates receive regulatory approval, they may still face future development and regulatory challenges and any approved products will be subject to extensive post-approval regulatory requirements.. If we obtain regulatory approval for a product candidate, it would be subject to extensive ongoing requirements by the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities governing the manufacture, quality control, further development, labeling, packaging, storage, distribution, safety surveillance, import, export, advertising, promotion, recordkeeping and reporting of safety and other post- market information. The safety profile of any product will continue to be closely monitored by the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities after approval. If the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities become aware of new safety information after approval of any of our product candidates, these regulatory authorities may require labeling changes or, depending on the nature of the safety information, establishment of a REMS or similar strategy, impose significant restrictions on a product's indicated uses or marketing, impose ongoing requirements for potentially costly post-approval studies or post-market surveillance, cause a recall or even move to withdraw the marketing approval for the product.. Page | 38. Index. In addition, manufacturers of therapeutic products and their facilities are subject to continual review and periodic inspections by the FDA and other regulatory authorities for compliance with cGMP regulations, including a focused pre-approval inspection in connection with any regulatory submission for approval that we might file.  If we or a regulatory agency discover previously unknown problems with a product, such as problems with the facility where the product is manufactured, a regulatory agency may take regulatory actions against the manufacturing facility or us, leading to a product recall or withdrawal, or suspension of manufacturing.. If we, our product candidates or the manufacturing facilities for our product candidates fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may, among other things:. <U+25CF>  issue warning letters or untitled letters;. <U+25CF>  mandate modifications to promotional materials or require us to provide corrective information to healthcare practitioners;. <U+25CF>  require us to enter into a consent decree, which can include imposition of various fines, reimbursements for inspection costs, required due dates for specific actions and penalties for noncompliance;. <U+25CF>  seek an injunction or impose civil or criminal penalties or monetary fines;. <U+25CF>  suspend or withdraw regulatory approval;. <U+25CF>  suspend any ongoing clinical studies;. <U+25CF>  challenge any pending applications or supplements to applications filed by us;. <U+25CF>  suspend or impose restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; or. <U+25CF>  seize or detain products or refuse to permit the import or export of products.. The occurrence of any event or penalty described above may inhibit our ability to commercialize our products and generate revenue.. Advertising and promotion of any product candidate that obtains approval in the United States may be heavily scrutinized by the FDA, including the Office of Prescription Drug Promotion, the Department of Justice, or the DOJ, HHS, Office of Inspector General, state attorneys general, members of Congress and the public. Violations, including promotion of our products for unapproved (or off-label) uses, are subject to enforcement letters, inquiries and investigations, and civil and criminal sanctions by the FDA. Additionally, advertising and promotion of any product candidate that obtains approval outside of the United States will be heavily scrutinized by comparable foreign regulatory authorities.. In the United States, engaging in impermissible promotion of our products for off-label uses can also subject us to false claims litigation under federal and state statutes, which can lead to civil and criminal penalties and fines and agreements that materially restrict the manner in which we promote or distribute those drug products. These false claims statutes include the FCA, which allows any individual to bring a lawsuit against a pharmaceutical company on behalf of the federal government alleging submission of false or fraudulent claims, or causing to present such false or fraudulent claims, for payment by a federal program such as Medicare or Medicaid. If the government prevails in the lawsuit, the individual will share in any fines or settlement funds. Since 2004, these FCA lawsuits against pharmaceutical companies have increased significantly in volume and breadth, leading to several substantial civil and criminal settlements based on certain sales practices promoting off-label drug uses. This growth in litigation has increased the risk that a pharmaceutical company will have to defend a false claim action, pay settlement fines or restitution, agree to comply with burdensome reporting and compliance obligations, and be excluded from the Medicare, Medicaid, and other federal and state healthcare programs. If we do not lawfully promote our approved products, we may become subject to such litigation and, if we are not successful in defending against such actions, those actions may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in international jurisdictions would prevent our product candidates from being marketed abroad.. In order to market and sell our products in the EU, Canada, Japan and other international jurisdictions, we must obtain separate and distinct marketing approvals and comply with the respective regulatory requirements of each of these jurisdictions. The regulatory approval process outside the United States generally includes all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval, but can involve additional testing or safety surveillance. In particular, nimodipine, the therapeutic agent used in EG-1962, has not previously been approved for use in Japan. As a result, the time required to obtain approval for EG-1962 in Japan may differ substantially from the time required to obtain approval for EG-1962 by the FDA. In the EU, an approved PIP, or a waiver therefrom, is required prior to marketing authorization.  A delay in reaching an approved PIP or in obtaining a waiver or meeting the conditions could delay authorization in the EU. We may need to partner with third parties in order to obtain regulatory approvals outside the United States. Approval by the FDA does not necessarily guarantee approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or jurisdictions. Nor does the approval by one regulatory authority outside the United States ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or jurisdictions or by the FDA. We may not be able to file for marketing approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products in any market. If we are unable to obtain approval of EG-1962 or any of our other product candidates by regulatory authorities in the EU, Canada, and other international jurisdictions, the commercial prospects of those product candidates may be significantly diminished and our business prospects could dramatically decline.. Page | 39. Index. Risks Related to the Potential Commercial Manufacture and Selling and Marketing of Our Product Candidates. If we are unable to establish sales and marketing capabilities to market and sell our product candidates, we may be unable to generate any revenue.. In order to market and sell EG-1962 and our other product candidates in development, we currently intend to build and develop our own sales, marketing and distribution operations in the United States and Canada, and possibly the EU. Although our management team has previous experience with such efforts, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in building these operations. If we are unable to establish adequate sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, we may not be able to generate product revenue and may not become profitable. We may also be competing with many companies that currently have extensive and well-funded sales and marketing operations. Even if any of our product candidates are approved, we may be unable to compete successfully against these more established companies.. Our commercial success depends upon attaining significant market acceptance of our product candidates, if approved, among hospitals, physicians, patients/caregivers and healthcare payors.. Even if we obtain regulatory approval for any of our product candidates that we may develop or acquire in the future, the product may not gain market acceptance among hospitals, physicians, health care payors, patients and the medical community. Market acceptance of any of our product candidates for which we receive approval depends on a number of factors, including:. <U+25CF>  the efficacy and safety of such product candidates as demonstrated in clinical trials;. <U+25CF>  the clinical indications for which the product candidate is approved and any REMS that may be imposed as a condition of approval;. <U+25CF>  acceptance by major operators of hospitals, physicians and patients of the product candidate as a safe and effective treatment, particularly the ability of EG-1962 and our other product candidates to establish themselves as the new standard of care for the indications that we are pursuing;. <U+25CF>  the potential and perceived advantages of our product candidates over alternative treatments as compared to the relative costs of the product candidates and alternative treatments;. <U+25CF>  the safety of our product candidates seen in a broader patient group, including its use outside the approved indications;. <U+25CF>  the prevalence and severity of any side effects, such as hypotension with respect to EG-1962;. <U+25CF>  product labeling or product insert requirements of the FDA or other regulatory authorities;. <U+25CF>  the timing of market introduction of our products as well as competitive products;. <U+25CF>  the availability of adequate reimbursement and pricing by third party payors and government authorities;. <U+25CF>  relative convenience and ease of administration; and. <U+25CF>  the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts and those of our future collaborators.. There may be delays in getting our drugs on hospitals' local formularies or limitations on coverages which can occur in the early stages of commercialization for newly approved drugs. If any of our product candidates are approved but fail to achieve market acceptance among hospitals, physicians, patients or health care payors, we will not be able to generate significant revenues, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations.. Even if we are able to commercialize our product candidates, the products may not receive coverage and adequate reimbursement from third party payors, which could harm our business.. Page | 40. Index. Our ability to commercialize any products successfully will depend, in large part, on the extent to which coverage and adequate reimbursement for these products and related treatments will be available from federal and state healthcare programs, private health insurers and other organizations. Payors, such as federal and state healthcare programs, private health insurers and health maintenance organizations, determine which medications they will cover and establish reimbursement levels. Adequate coverage and reimbursement from governmental healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and commercial payors are critical to new product acceptance. A trend in the healthcare industry and elsewhere is cost containment. Government authorities and third party payors have attempted to control costs by limiting coverage and the amount of reimbursement for particular medications, by increasing patient cost-sharing, or by adopting new methods to pay physicians and hospitals that may discourage them from using higher-cost drugs in some instances.  In addition, we expect that our products may be used chiefly in the inpatient hospital setting; products that are used in the inpatient hospital setting may be reimbursed by payors at a fixed payment for the hospital stay, or a similar payment method that does not include a separate charge for drugs provided to the patient, which can discourage hospitals from furnishing higher-cost drugs to inpatients in some cases. Increasingly, third party payors are requiring that drug companies provide them with predetermined discounts from list prices and are challenging the prices charged for medical products. Third party payors also may seek additional clinical evidence, beyond the data required to obtain marketing approval, demonstrating clinical benefits and value in specific patient populations before covering our products for those patients. In particular, even if EG-1962 or any other product candidates we develop are established as having superior efficacy compared to the current standard of care, payors may not adequately reimburse for such product candidates. Accordingly, we cannot be sure that coverage and adequate reimbursement will be available for any product that we commercialize and, if reimbursement is available, what the level of reimbursement will be. Coverage and reimbursement may impact the demand for, and/or the price of, any product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval. If reimbursement is not available or is available only at limited levels, we may not be able to successfully commercialize any product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval.. Coverage decisions may depend upon clinical and economic standards that disfavor new drug products such as ours when more established or lower cost therapeutic alternatives are already available or subsequently become available. Decisions regarding the extent of coverage and amount of reimbursement to be provided for products and product candidates that we develop will be made on a plan-by-plan basis. As a result, the coverage determination process is often a time-consuming and costly process that may require us to provide scientific and clinical support for the use of our products to each payor separately, with no assurance that coverage and adequate reimbursement will be applied consistently or obtained.  There may be significant delays in obtaining coverage and reimbursement for newly approved drugs, and coverage may be more limited than the purposes for which the drug is approved by the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities. Moreover, eligibility for coverage and reimbursement does not imply that any drug will be paid for in all cases or at a rate that covers our costs, including research, development, manufacture, sale and distribution. Interim reimbursement levels for new drugs, if applicable, may also not be sufficient to cover our costs and may only be temporary. Reimbursement rates may vary according to the use of the drug and the setting in which it is used, may be based on reimbursement levels already set for lower cost drugs and may be incorporated into existing payments for other services. Net prices for drugs may be reduced by mandatory discounts or rebates required by government healthcare programs or private payors and by any future relaxation of laws that presently restrict imports of drugs from countries where they may be sold at lower prices than in the United States. Third party payors often rely upon Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement policies. Our inability to promptly or eventually obtain coverage and profitable reimbursement rates from both government-healthcare programs and private payors for any approved products that we develop could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, our ability to raise capital needed to commercialize products and our overall financial condition.. In the EEA, even if the product is approved by the European Commission following a positive opinion by the EMA's CHMP through the Centralized Procedure, national governments or independent organizations set up by them to make such decisions may not approve pricing and reimbursement for the product on grounds relating to cost-effectiveness under the respective national health service systems. This will have an effect of limiting or otherwise restricting access to the products by patients using public healthcare services in member states of the EEA.. Recently enacted and future legislation, including potentially unfavorable pricing regulations or other healthcare reform initiatives, may increase the difficulty and cost for us to obtain marketing approval of and commercialize our product candidates and affect the prices we may obtain.. In the United States and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory changes and proposed changes regarding the healthcare system that could prevent or delay marketing approval of our product candidates, restrict or regulate post-approval activities, impact or limit how the cost of our products are reimbursed by government programs, or affect our ability to profitably sell any product candidates for which we obtain marketing approval.. In the United States, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, or the Medicare Modernization Act, established the Medicare Part D program, which covers outpatient drugs, and generally provided authority for the private plans that deliver Part D drug benefits to limit the number of drugs that will be covered in any therapeutic class thereunder. The Medicare Modernization Act does not permit CMS to interfere in negotiations over drug pricing and coverage between Part D plans and manufacturers, and Part D has generally been considered successful in containing costs without CMS interference in these negotiations; however, program costs have been increasing in recent years and interest in permitting CMS intervention, or otherwise taking additional steps to contain drug costs in Part D, is increasing.  Efforts to reduce drug costs or coverage under Part D could decrease the coverage and reimbursement rate that we receive for any of our approved products that are outpatient drugs eligible for Part D coverage. Furthermore, private payors often follow Medicare coverage policies and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement rates. Therefore, any general reduction in reimbursement rates paid by Medicare Part D plans or policies to increase the rebates that manufacturers pay to Part D plans or to give these plans more discretion to limit coverage may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payors.. Page | 41. Index. The PPACA, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act, or collectively, the Affordable Care Act, among other things, imposes a significant annual fee on companies that manufacture or import branded prescription drug products (with an exception for certain orphan drugs). It also contains substantial new provisions intended to broaden access to health insurance, reduce or constrain the growth of health care spending, enhance remedies against healthcare fraud and abuse, add new transparency requirements for the healthcare and health insurance industries, impose new taxes and fees on pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers, and impose additional health policy reforms (including accelerating the testing and expansion of new payment methods that contain healthcare costs), any of which could negatively impact our business. The Affordable Care Act is likely to continue the downward pressure on pharmaceutical pricing, especially under the Medicare program, and may also increase our regulatory burdens and operating costs.. We expect that the Affordable Care Act, as well as other healthcare reform measures that have been and may be adopted in the future, may result in more rigorous coverage criteria and in additional downward pressure on the price that we receive for any approved product (including through promoting the adoption of methods to pay healthcare providers that can discourage them from furnishing higher-cost drugs to their patients in some cases), and could seriously harm our future revenues. Any reduction in reimbursement from Medicare or other government programs may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payors. The implementation of cost containment measures or other healthcare reforms may compromise our ability to generate revenue, attain profitability or commercialize our products. Similar austerity measures to contain healthcare costs under national rules may be applied in various EU Member States to limit or restrict market access to the product.. The Affordable Care Act also improved the market for healthcare products in one respect, by expanding health insurance coverage.  Starting in 2014, the Affordable Care Act expanded health insurance coverage to many previously uninsured Americans, through a combination of federal subsidies for lower-income individuals who enrolled in health plans through health insurance Exchanges and enabling States to expand Medicaid eligibility with the federal government paying a high share of the cost.  Following the November 2016 U.S. elections, uncertainty exists about the future of this coverage expansion.  In December 2017, President Trump signed into law the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, which includes a repeal of the individual mandate under the Affordable Care Act. The President and congressional leaders have continued to express interest in repealing Affordable Care Act provisions and replacing them with alternatives that may be less costly and provide state Medicaid programs and private health plans more flexibility.  It is possible that these repeal and replacement initiatives, if enacted into law, could ultimately result in fewer individuals having health insurance coverage and/or in individuals having insurance coverage with less generous benefits.  Any reduction in the number of patients receiving healthcare coverage may impact the reimbursements to hospitals and impact the ability of hospitals and patients to pay for our products, including EG-1962.  The scope of potential future legislation to repeal and replace Affordable Care Act provisions is highly uncertain in many respects, and it is possible that some of the Affordable Care Act provisions that generally hurt the research-based pharmaceutical industry (such as those discussed above) could also be repealed along with Affordable Care Act coverage expansion provisions; however, at this time the coverage expansion provisions of the Affordable Care Act appear most likely to be repealed and replaced.. Laws and regulations governing international operations may preclude us from developing, manufacturing and selling certain product candidates outside of the United States and require us to develop and implement costly compliance programs.. As we expand our operations outside of the United States, we must comply with applicable local laws and regulations relating to our business operations in each jurisdiction in which we plan to operate. The creation and implementation of international business practices compliance programs is costly and such programs are difficult to enforce, particularly where reliance on third parties is required.. The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, prohibits any U.S. individual or business from paying, offering, or authorizing payment or offering of anything of value, directly or indirectly, to any foreign official, political party or candidate for the purpose of influencing any act or decision of the foreign entity in order to assist the individual or business in obtaining or retaining business. The FCPA also obligates companies whose securities are listed in the United States to comply with certain accounting provisions requiring the company to maintain books and records that accurately and fairly reflect all transactions of the corporation, including international subsidiaries, and to devise and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls for international operations. The anti- bribery provisions of the FCPA are enforced primarily by the DOJ. The SEC is involved with enforcement of the books and records provisions of the FCPA.. Page | 42. Index. Compliance with the FCPA is expensive and difficult, particularly in countries in which corruption is a recognized problem. In addition, the FCPA presents particular challenges in the pharmaceutical industry, because, in many countries, hospitals are operated by the government, and doctors and other hospital employees are considered foreign officials. Certain payments to hospitals in connection with clinical studies and other work have been deemed to be improper payments to government officials and have led to FCPA enforcement actions.. Various laws, regulations and executive orders also restrict the use and dissemination outside of the United States, or the sharing with certain non-U.S. nationals, of information classified for national security purposes, as well as certain products and technical data relating to those products. If we expand our presence outside of the United States, it will require us to dedicate additional resources to compliance with these laws, and these laws may preclude us from developing, manufacturing, or selling certain products and product candidates outside of the United States, which could limit our growth potential and increase our development costs.. The failure to comply with laws governing international business practices may result in substantial penalties, including suspension or debarment from government contracting. Violation of the FCPA can result in significant civil and criminal penalties. Indictment alone under the FCPA can lead to suspension of the right to do business with the U.S. government until the pending claims are resolved. Conviction of a violation of the FCPA can result in long-term disqualification as a government contractor. The termination of a government contract or relationship as a result of our failure to satisfy any of our obligations under laws governing international business practices would have a negative impact on our operations and harm our reputation and ability to procure government contracts. The SEC also may suspend or bar issuers from trading securities on U.S. exchanges for violations of the FCPA's accounting provisions.. Similar consequences may accrue from business practices that violate other applicable anti-bribery/anti-corruption statutes in other jurisdictions, such as the United Kingdom Bribery Act.. We intend that EG-1962 and our other product candidates will be sold outside of the United States, either by Edge or its affiliates, through one or more international partners or by license agreement, and if we do, we will be subject to the risks of doing business outside of the United States.. Because we intend that EG-1962 and our other product candidates, if approved, will be sold outside of the United States, either by Edge or its affiliates, through one or more international partners or by license agreement, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business outside of the United States. Accordingly, our business and financial results in the future could be adversely affected due to a variety of factors, including:. <U+25CF>  failure to develop an international sales, marketing and distribution system for our products;. <U+25CF>  changes in a specific country's or region's political and cultural climate or economic condition;. <U+25CF>  unexpected changes in foreign laws and regulatory requirements;. <U+25CF>  difficulty of effective enforcement of contractual provisions in local jurisdictions;. <U+25CF>  inadequate intellectual property protection in foreign countries;. <U+25CF>  inadequate data protection against unfair commercial use;. <U+25CF>  trade-protection measures, import or export licensing requirements such as Export Administration Regulations promulgated by the United States Department of Commerce and fines, penalties or suspension or revocation of export privileges;. <U+25CF>  the effects of applicable foreign tax structures and potentially adverse tax consequences;. <U+25CF>  significant adverse changes in foreign currency exchange rates; and. <U+25CF>  failure of third party international partners with whom we contract for commercialization outside the United States to effectively and consistently commercialize EG-1962 and/or other Edge products.. Risks Related to Our Dependence on Third Parties. We rely completely on third party suppliers to manufacture our clinical drug supplies for our product candidates, and we intend to rely on third parties to produce pre-clinical, clinical and commercial supplies of any future product candidate.. Page | 43. Index. We do not currently have the infrastructure or capability, nor do we have plans to acquire the infrastructure or capability, to internally manufacture our clinical or commercial drug supply of our product candidates, or any future product candidates, for use in the conduct of our non-clinical studies and clinical trials, and we lack the internal resources and the capability to manufacture any product candidates on a clinical or commercial scale. For example, the active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, for EG-1962 for our NEWTON 2 Phase 3 pivotal study was manufactured at a third party contract manufacturer's site. Additionally, the diluent of sodium hyaluronate for EG-1962 for our NEWTON 2 Phase 3 pivotal study was manufactured at a third party contract manufacturer's site and the polymer microparticle for EG-1962 as formulated for our NEWTON 2 Phase 3 pivotal study was manufactured at another third-party contract manufacturer's site.  Currently, Oakwood is the sole manufacturer and supplier of the EG-1962 used in the NEWTON 2 Phase 3 pivotal study and we do not expect to enter into additional manufacturing and supply agreements for such clinical supply.. We have entered into a Manufacturing and Supply Agreement with Oakwood (the \"Supply Agreement\"), pursuant to which Oakwood will manufacture and supply, and we will purchase from Oakwood, EG-1962 in commercial quantities following the commercial launch of the product.  There is no guarantee that Oakwood will have sufficient capacity to satisfy our manufacturing and supply needs of EG-1962.  If EG-1962 gets approved but we are unable to do negotiate commercial supply agreements with other third parties, there may be significant shortfalls in the commercial quantities of EG-1962 available for sale if Oakwood cannot meet our demand.  Similarly, we have single-source suppliers for the API, the sodium hyaluronate and the polymer microparticles that comprise EG-1962.  If any of these suppliers are unable to supply us with our requirements, and we are unable to do negotiate commercial supply agreements with other third parties, there may be significant shortfalls in the commercial quantities of EG-1962 available for sale.. Reliance on third party suppliers and manufacturers entails risks to which we would not be subject if we manufactured product candidates or products ourselves. Although we are primarily responsible for the oversight of regulatory compliance with respect to the third party supply and manufacture of our products, we rely on the third party for regulatory compliance and quality assurance activities. The possibility exists of breach of the manufacturing and/or supply agreement by the third party because of factors beyond our control (including a failure to synthesize and manufacture our product candidates or any products we may eventually commercialize in accordance with our specifications), and the possibility of termination or nonrenewal of the agreement by the third party, based on its own business priorities, at a time that could be costly or damaging to us. In addition, although we are not in control of the day-to-day activities of our third party suppliers and manufacturers, we are nonetheless responsible for ensuring that our product candidates and any products that we release for clinical or commercial use are manufactured according to cGMP and similar foreign standards. Any failure by our third party suppliers or manufacturers to comply with cGMP or failure to scale up manufacturing processes, including any failure to deliver sufficient quantities of product candidates in a timely manner, could lead to a delay in, or failure to obtain, regulatory approval of any of our product candidates. In addition, such failure could be the basis for the FDA to issue a warning or untitled letter, withdraw approvals for product candidates previously granted to us, or take other regulatory or legal action, including recall or seizure, total or partial suspension of production, suspension of ongoing clinical trials, refusal to approve pending applications or supplemental applications, detention of product, refusal to permit the import or export of products, injunction, or imposing civil and criminal penalties.. Because of the complex nature of our compounds, our current suppliers and manufacturers and any future suppliers and manufacturers may not be able to supply and/or manufacture our compounds at a cost or in quantities or in a timely manner necessary to make commercially successful products. If we successfully commercialize any of our drugs, we may be required to establish large-scale commercial manufacturing capabilities, either internally or with another party, in addition to Oakwood. In addition, if our drug development pipeline increases and matures, we will have a greater need for clinical trial and commercial supply and manufacturing capacity. We have no prior experience manufacturing pharmaceutical products on a commercial scale and some of these suppliers and manufacturers will need to increase their scale of production to meet our projected needs for commercial supply and manufacturing, the satisfaction of which may not be met on a timely basis.. We rely on CROs to conduct our preclinical studies and clinical trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for our products or commercialize our product candidates and our business could be substantially harmed.. We have relied upon and plan to continue to rely upon third party CROs to monitor and manage data for our ongoing preclinical and clinical programs. We rely on these parties to assist us in the execution of our preclinical and clinical trials, and control only certain aspects of their activities. Nevertheless, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our studies is conducted in accordance with the applicable protocol and legal, regulatory and scientific standards, and our reliance on CROs does not relieve us of our regulatory responsibilities. We also rely on third parties to conduct our preclinical studies in accordance with GLP requirements and the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act of 1966 requirements (and the equivalent requirements outside the United States). We and our CROs are required to comply with regulations and current GCPs, which are enforced by the FDA, and EU law requirements governing GCPs to be applied by the Competent Authorities of the Member States of the EU and EEA, and comparable foreign regulatory authorities to ensure that the health, safety and rights of patients are protected in clinical development and clinical trials, and that trial data integrity as well as protection of personal data of the trial subjects is assured. Regulatory authorities ensure compliance with these GCPs through periodic inspections of trial sponsors, principal investigators and trial sites. If we or any of our CROs fail to comply with applicable GCPs, the clinical data generated in our clinical trials may be deemed unreliable and the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may require us to perform additional clinical trials before approving our marketing applications. We cannot assure you that, upon inspection by a given regulatory authority, such regulatory authority will determine that any of our clinical trials comply with GCP requirements. In addition, our clinical trials must be conducted with products produced under cGMP requirements. Failure to comply with these regulations may require us to repeat preclinical and clinical trials, which would delay the regulatory approval process.. Page | 44. Index. Although we have certain mandated oversight responsibilities for our CROs, including with respect to quality management, trial management, data handling, record keeping and noncompliance, our CROs are not our employees, and except for remedies available to us under our agreements with such CROs, we cannot control whether or not they devote sufficient time and resources to our ongoing clinical and preclinical programs. If CROs do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or obligations or meet expected deadlines or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols, regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize our product candidates. As a result, our results of operations and the commercial prospects for our product candidates would be harmed, our costs could increase and our ability to generate revenues could be delayed.. Because we have relied on third parties, our internal capacity to perform these functions is limited. Outsourcing these functions involves risk that third parties may not perform to our standards, may not produce results in a timely manner or may fail to perform at all. In addition, the use of third party service providers requires us to disclose our proprietary information to these parties, which could increase the risk that this information will be misappropriated. We currently have a small number of employees, which limits the internal resources we have available to identify and monitor our third party providers. To the extent we are unable to identify and successfully manage the performance of third party service providers in the future, our business may be adversely affected. Though we carefully manage our relationships with our CROs, there can be no assurance that we will not encounter similar challenges or delays in the future or that these delays or challenges will not have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and prospects.. If we lose our relationships with CROs or other third party vendors, our drug development efforts could be delayed.. We rely on third party vendors and CROs for preclinical studies and clinical trials related to our drug development efforts. Switching or adding additional CROs or third party vendors involves additional cost and requires management time and focus. Our CROs and third party vendors have the right to terminate their agreements with us in the event of an uncured material breach. In addition, some of our CROs and third party vendors have an ability to terminate their respective agreements with us if it can be reasonably demonstrated that the safety of the patients participating in our clinical trials warrants such termination. Identifying, qualifying and managing performance of third party service providers can be difficult, time consuming and cause delays in our development programs. In addition, there is a natural transition period when a new CRO or third party vendor commences work, and the new CRO or third party vendor may not provide the same type or level of services as the original provider. Furthermore, one of our CROs may undergo a change in control or management, which may result in a different level of service from the CRO.  If any of our relationships with our third party CROs or third party vendors terminate, we may not be able to enter into timely arrangements with alternative CROs or third party vendors or do so on commercially reasonable terms.. Disruptions in our supply chain could delay the commercial launch of our product candidates.. Any significant disruption in our supplier relationships could harm our business. We currently rely on a single source supplier for the API nimodipine, as well as a single supplier for the polymer microparticles and the diluent that comprise EG-1962. Further, Oakwood is the sole manufacturer of EG-1962 for clinical uses and may be for commercial uses, if EG-1962 is approved.  If any of our suppliers is unable or unwilling to manufacture sufficient quantities of these key materials in a reasonable timeframe or on commercially acceptable terms, or suffers a major natural or man-made disaster at its manufacturing facility, we would not be able to manufacture EG-1962 until a qualified alternative supplier is identified. Although alternative sources of supply exist, the number of third party suppliers with the necessary manufacturing and regulatory expertise and facilities is limited, and it could be expensive and take a significant amount of time to arrange for alternative suppliers. Any significant delay in the supply of a product candidate or its key materials for an ongoing clinical trial could considerably delay completion of our clinical studies, product testing and potential regulatory approval of our product candidates and considerably delay the commencement of commercial production and sale of approved product. If our manufacturers or we are unable to purchase these key materials after regulatory approval has been obtained for our product candidates, either the commercial launch of our product candidates could be delayed or there could be a shortage in supply, which would impair our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our product candidates.. Our relationships with customers and third party payors will be subject to applicable anti-kickback, fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations, which could expose us to criminal sanctions, civil penalties, contractual damages, reputational harm and diminished profits and future earnings.. Page | 45. Index. Healthcare providers, physicians and third party payors play a primary role in the recommendation and prescription of any product candidates for which we obtain marketing approval. Our future arrangements with third party payors and customers may expose us to broadly applicable fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations that may constrain the business or financial arrangements and relationships through which we market, sell and distribute our products for which we obtain marketing approval. As a pharmaceutical company, even though we do not and will not control referrals of healthcare services or bill directly to Medicare, Medicaid or other third party payors, certain federal and state healthcare laws and regulations pertaining to fraud and abuse and patients' rights are and will be applicable to our business. Restrictions under applicable federal and state healthcare laws and regulations that may affect our ability to operate include, but are not limited to, the following:. <U+25CF>  the federal healthcare Anti-Kickback Statute constrains our marketing practices, educational programs, pricing policies, and relationships with healthcare providers or other entities, by prohibiting, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce or reward, or in return for, either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service, for which payment may be made under a federal healthcare program such as Medicare and Medicaid;. <U+25CF>  federal civil and criminal false claims laws and civil monetary penalty laws impose criminal and civil penalties, including through civil whistleblower or qui tam actions, against individuals or entities for knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, to the federal government, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs, claims for payment that are false or fraudulent or making a false statement to avoid, decrease or conceal an obligation to pay money to the federal government;. <U+25CF>  HIPAA, imposes criminal and civil liability for executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program and also created federal criminal laws that prohibit knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false statements in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services;. <U+25CF>  HIPAA, as amended by HITECH, also imposes obligations, including mandatory contractual terms, with respect to safeguarding the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information;. <U+25CF>  the federal physician sunshine requirements under the Affordable Care Act requires manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies to report annually to HHS information related to payments and other transfers of value to physicians, certain other healthcare providers, and teaching hospitals, and ownership and investment interests held by physicians and certain other healthcare providers and their immediate family members and applicable group purchasing organizations; and. <U+25CF>  analogous state and foreign laws and regulations, such as measures relating to inducements designed to promote prescription, supply, sale or intake of drugs, including state anti-kickback and false claims laws, may apply to sales or marketing arrangements and claims involving healthcare items or services reimbursed by non-governmental third party payors, including private insurers. Some state laws require pharmaceutical companies to comply with the pharmaceutical industry's voluntary compliance guidelines and the relevant compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government and may require drug manufacturers to report information related to payments and other transfers of value to physicians and certain other healthcare providers or marketing expenditures. Additionally, state and foreign laws govern the privacy or personal data and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by HIPAA, thus complicating compliance efforts.. Efforts to ensure that our business arrangements with third parties will comply with applicable healthcare laws and regulations will involve substantial costs. It is possible that governmental authorities will conclude that our business practices may not comply with current or future statutes, regulations or case law involving applicable fraud and abuse or other healthcare laws and regulations. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of these laws or any other governmental regulations that may apply to us, we may be subject to significant civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages, fines, imprisonment, exclusion from government funded healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. If any physicians or other healthcare providers or entities with whom we expect to do business are found to not be in compliance with applicable laws, they may be subject to criminal, civil or administrative sanctions, including exclusions from government funded healthcare programs.. Our employees may engage in misconduct or other improper activities, including noncompliance with regulatory standards and requirements, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We are exposed to the risk of employee fraud or other misconduct. Misconduct by employees could include intentional failures to comply with FDA regulations or similar regulations of comparable foreign regulatory authorities, to provide accurate information to the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities, to comply with manufacturing standards we have established, to comply with federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws and regulations and similar laws and regulations established and enforced by comparable foreign regulatory authorities, to report financial information or data accurately or to disclose unauthorized activities to us. In particular, sales, marketing and business arrangements in the healthcare industry are subject to extensive laws and regulations intended to prevent fraud, kickbacks, self-dealing and other abusive practices. These laws and regulations may restrict or prohibit a wide range of pricing, discounting, marketing and promotion, sales commission, customer incentive programs and other business arrangements. Employee misconduct could also involve the improper use of information obtained in the course of clinical trials, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious harm to our reputation. We have adopted, implemented, and are enforcing a Code of Conduct and other compliance-based policies and procedures, and we intend to continue to adopt, implement, and enforce additional compliance-based policies and procedures as appropriate, but it is not always possible to identify and deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity, such as employee training on enforcement of the Code of Conduct and other policies and procedures, may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses or in protecting us from governmental investigations or other actions or lawsuits stemming from a failure to be in compliance with such laws or regulations. If any such actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights, those actions could have a significant impact on our business and results of operations, including the imposition of significant fines or other sanctions.. Page | 46. Index. Risks Related to Our Business and Strategy. Our future success depends on our ability to retain our executive officers and to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel.. Because of the specialized scientific and managerial nature of our business, we rely heavily on our ability to attract and retain qualified scientific, technical and managerial personnel. We are highly dependent upon current management, especially our founder, Brian A. Leuthner, who is the driving force behind the operation and successful implementation of our business strategy. Although we have an employment agreement with Mr. Leuthner and other key employees, these agreements are at-will and do not prevent them from terminating their employment with us at any time and possibly joining one of our competitors. We do not maintain \"key person\" insurance for any of our executives or other employees. We intend to increase our technical and management staff as needs arise and supporting resources are available, but the loss of one or more of our senior executive officers, including their death or incapacitation, could be detrimental to us if we cannot recruit suitable replacements in a timely manner. The competition for qualified personnel in the pharmaceutical field is intense and, as a result, we may be unable to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business or to recruit suitable replacement personnel.. We will need to grow the size of our organization, and we may experience difficulties in managing this growth.. As of December 31, 2017, we had 38 full-time employees. As our development and commercialization plans and strategies develop, or as a result of any future acquisitions, we will likely need additional managerial, operational, sales, marketing, financial, legal and other resources. Our management, personnel and systems currently in place may not be adequate to support this future growth. Future growth would impose significant added responsibilities on members of management, including:. <U+25CF>  managing our clinical studies and product development and commercialization processes effectively;. <U+25CF>  identifying, recruiting, maintaining, motivating and integrating additional employees;. <U+25CF>  managing our internal development efforts effectively while complying with our contractual obligations to licensors, contractors and other third parties;. <U+25CF>  improving our managerial, development, operational and finance, human resources, and quality management systems, including automation; and. <U+25CF>  expanding our facilities.. As our operations expand, we will need to manage additional relationships with various strategic partners, suppliers and other third parties. Our future financial performance and our ability to commercialize our product candidates and to compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to manage any future growth effectively. To that end, we must be able to manage our development efforts and clinical studies and potential commercialization effectively and hire, train and integrate additional management, administrative and sales and marketing personnel. We may not be able to accomplish these tasks, and our failure to accomplish any of them could prevent us from successfully growing Edge.. The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and is subject to rapid and significant technological change, which could render our technologies and products obsolete or uncompetitive.. There is no assurance that our product candidates will be the most effective, the safest, the first to market, or the most economical to make or use. The introduction of competitive therapies as alternatives to our product candidates could dramatically reduce the value of those development projects or chances of successfully commercializing those product candidates, which could have a material adverse effect on our long-term financial success. Additionally, other technologies may become available that can monitor intracranial pressure without the need for an EVD, which would require physicians to put in place an EVD solely to administer EG-1962 and thereby substantially increase the additional level of invasiveness needed to deliver EG-1962 through our initial route of administration.. Page | 47. Index. We plan to compete with companies in North America and internationally, including major pharmaceutical and chemical companies, specialized CROs, research and development firms, universities and other research institutions. In the United States, oral nimodipine gelcaps are manufactured by generic companies, and there is no brand name drug. In May 2013, the FDA approved Nymalize, an oral nimodipine solution, for the treatment of aSAH, and, at approval, granted it seven years of orphan drug marketing exclusivity for this indication because it had previously received orphan designation for the treatment of subarachnoid hemorrhage.  We are aware that Grace Therapeutics has announced that they plan to submit an NDA for an intravenous infusion form of nimodipine in the first half of 2018, that Grace Therapeutics has received orphan drug designation for its product, and therefore that Grace Therapeutics could obtain orphan drug exclusivity on its product, thereby potentially blocking us from commercializing EG-1962 for seven years if Grace Therapeutics' drug is considered the same drug as EG-1962.  We are also aware that Idorsia Ltd. has announced that it expects to initiate a Phase 3 study evaluating the safety and efficacy of clazosentan in an aSAH population enriched for the risk of cerebral vasospasm in 2018.  In Japan, there are two drugs that are used to treat aSAH patients, fasudil and sodium ozagrel. Many of our potential competitors have greater financial resources and selling and marketing capabilities, greater experience in clinical testing and human clinical trials of pharmaceutical products and greater experience in obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals than we do. In addition, some of our potential competitors may have lower development and manufacturing costs.. Our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures.. Despite the implementation of security measures, the servers of our cloud-based computing providers and other systems, and those of our CROs and other third parties on which we rely, are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication and electrical failures. If such an event were to occur and cause interruptions in our operations, it could result in a material disruption of our drug development programs. For example, the loss of clinical trial data from completed or ongoing or planned clinical trials could result in delays in our regulatory approval efforts and significantly increase our costs to recover or reproduce the data. To the extent that any disruption or security breach was to result in a loss of or damage to our data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we could incur liability and the further development of our product candidates could be delayed.. Any future collaborators may compete with us or have interests which conflict with ours. This may restrict our research and development efforts and limit the areas of research in which we intend to expand.. Large pharmaceutical companies with whom we may seek to collaborate may have internal programs or enter into collaborations with our competitors for products addressing the same medical conditions targeted by our technologies. Thus, such collaborators may pursue alternative technologies or product candidates in order to develop treatments for the diseases or disorders targeted by our collaborative arrangements. Such collaborators may pursue these alternatives either on their own or in collaboration with others, including our competitors. Depending on how other product candidates advance, a corporate partner may slow down or abandon its work on our product candidates or terminate its collaborative arrangement with us in order to focus on these other prospects.. If any conflicts arise, our future collaborators may act in their own interests, which may be adverse to ours. In addition, in our future collaborations, we may be required to agree not to conduct any research that is competitive with the research conducted under our future collaborations. Our future collaborations may have the effect of limiting the areas of research that we may pursue. Our collaborators may be able to develop products in related fields that are competitive with the products or potential products that are the subject of these collaborations.. We may engage in future acquisitions that could disrupt our business, cause dilution to our stockholders and harm our financial condition and operating results.. While we currently have no specific plans to acquire any other businesses or products, we may, in the future, make acquisitions of, or investments in, companies that we believe have products or capabilities that are a strategic or commercial fit with our current product candidates and business or otherwise offer opportunities for our company. In connection with these acquisitions or investments, we may:. <U+25CF>  issue stock that would dilute our stockholders' percentage of ownership;. <U+25CF>  expend cash;. <U+25CF>  incur debt and assume liabilities; and. <U+25CF>  incur amortization expenses related to intangible assets or incur large and immediate write-offs.. Page | 48. Index. We also may be unable to find suitable acquisition candidates and we may not be able to complete acquisitions on favorable terms, if at all. If we do complete an acquisition, we cannot assure you that it will ultimately strengthen our competitive position or that it will not be viewed negatively by customers, financial markets or investors. Further, future acquisitions could also pose numerous additional risks to our operations, including:. <U+25CF>  problems integrating the purchased business, products or technologies;. <U+25CF>  increases to our expenses;. <U+25CF>  the failure to have discovered undisclosed liabilities of the acquired asset or company;. <U+25CF>  diversion of management's attention from their day-to-day responsibilities;. <U+25CF>  harm to our operating results or financial condition;. <U+25CF>  entrance into markets in which we have limited or no prior experience; and. <U+25CF>  potential loss of key employees, particularly those of the acquired entity.. We may not be able to complete one or more acquisitions or effectively integrate the operations, products or personnel gained through any such acquisition without a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenues and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses.. Our operations, or those of our vendors, could be subject to natural disasters, power shortages, telecommunications failures, water shortages, fires, medical epidemics and other manmade disasters or business interruptions, for which we or they are predominantly self-insured. The occurrence of any of these business disruptions could seriously harm our operations and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. We rely on third party manufacturers to produce our product candidates and supply the applicable therapeutic for our product candidates. Our ability to obtain clinical supplies of product candidates could be disrupted, if the operations of these suppliers are affected by a man-made or natural disaster or other business interruption. Similar concerns will apply for commercial product supply.  In addition, we rely on third party CROs and other third party vendors for the conduct of our clinical studies. Our ability to conduct such clinical studies could be disrupted, if the operations of these CROs and other third party vendors are affected by a manmade or natural disaster or other business interruption.. Our ability to use our net operating losses to offset future taxable income may be subject to certain limitations.. As of December 31, 2017, we had federal and state net operating loss carryforwards, or NOLs, of $101.5 million and $31.9 million, respectively, due to prior period losses. In general, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, a corporation that undergoes an \"ownership change\" is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its NOLs to offset future taxable income. We believe that we may have already undergone one or more ownership changes.. In addition, future changes in our stock ownership, some of which are outside of our control, could result in an ownership change under Section 382 of the Code. Although we have not completed an analysis under Section 382 of the Code, it is likely that the utilization of the NOLs will be limited. There is also a risk that due to regulatory changes, such as suspensions on the use of NOLs, or other unforeseen reasons, our existing NOLs could expire or otherwise be unavailable to offset future income tax liabilities. For these reasons, we may not be able to utilize a material portion of the NOLs reflected on our balance sheet, even if we attain profitability.. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could be harmed.. We depend on our ability to protect our proprietary technology. We rely on trade secret, patent, copyright and trademark laws, and confidentiality, licensing and other agreements with employees and third parties, all of which offer only limited protection. Our success depends in large part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection in the United States and other countries with respect to our proprietary technology and products. Where we have the right to do so under our license agreements, we seek to protect our proprietary position by filing patent applications in the United States and abroad related to our novel technologies and products that are important to our business.. Page | 49. Index. The patent positions of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies generally are highly uncertain, involve complex legal and factual questions and have in recent years been the subject of much litigation. As a result, the issuance, scope, validity, enforceability and commercial value of our patents, including those patent rights licensed to us by third parties, are highly uncertain.. The steps we have taken to police and protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate to preclude misappropriation of our proprietary information or infringement of our intellectual property rights, both inside and outside the United States. The rights already granted under any of our currently issued/granted patents and those that may be granted under future issued/granted patents may not provide us with the proprietary protection or competitive advantages we are seeking. If we are unable to obtain and maintain patent protection for our technology and products, or if the scope of the patent protection obtained is not sufficient, our competitors could develop and commercialize technology and products similar or superior to ours, and our ability to successfully commercialize our technology and products may be adversely affected.. With respect to patent rights, we do not know whether any of the pending patent applications for any of our product candidates will result in the issuance of patents that protect our technology or products, or will effectively prevent others from commercializing competitive technologies and products. Our pending applications cannot be enforced against third parties practicing the technology claimed in such applications unless and until a patent issues from such applications. Further, the examination process may require us, or for in-licensed technology, our licensors, to narrow the claims, which may limit the scope of patent protection that may be obtained. Although we have a number of issued/granted patents, the issuance/grant of a patent is not conclusive as to its inventorship, scope, validity or enforceability, and issued/granted patents that we own or have licensed from third parties may be challenged in the courts or patent offices in the United States and abroad. Such challenges may result in the loss of patent protection, the narrowing of claims in such patents, or the invalidity or unenforceability of such patents, which could limit our ability to stop others from using or commercializing similar or identical technology and products, or limit the duration of the patent protection for our technology and products.. Protecting against the unauthorized use of our patented technology, trademarks and other intellectual property rights is expensive, difficult and, may in some cases not be possible. In some cases, it may be difficult or impossible to detect third party infringement or misappropriation of our intellectual property rights, even in relation to issued/granted patent claims, and proving any such infringement may be even more difficult.. We could be required to incur significant expenses to obtain our intellectual property rights, and we cannot ensure that we will obtain meaningful patent protection for our products.. The patent prosecution process is expensive and time-consuming, and we, Evonik or any future licensors may not be able to file and prosecute all necessary or desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost or in a timely manner. In addition, it is also possible that we or our licensors will fail to identify patentable aspects of further inventions made in the course of our development and commercialization activities before they are publicly disclosed, making it too late to obtain patent protection on them. Further, given the amount of time required for the development, testing and regulatory review of new product candidates, patents protecting such candidates might expire before or shortly after such candidates are commercialized. We expect to seek extensions of patent terms where these are available in any countries where we are prosecuting patents. This includes in the United States under the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, which permits a patent term extension for regulatory delay of up to five years beyond the expiration date of a patent based only on its earliest filing date plus any patent term adjustments due to patent office delays during prosecution that covers an approved product where the permission for the commercial marketing or use of the product is the first permitted commercial marketing or use, and as long as the remaining term of the patent does not exceed fourteen years. We can likewise apply for Supplementary Protection Certificates in Europe to extend the statutory 20-year maximum patent term by up to five years.  Similar legislation exists in Australia, Israel, Japan, and South Korea.  However, the applicable authorities, including the FDA in the United States, and any equivalent regulatory authority in other countries, may not agree with our assessment of whether such extensions are available, and may refuse to grant extensions to our patents, or may grant more limited extensions than we request. If this occurs, our competitors may be able to take advantage of our investment in development and clinical trials by referencing our clinical and preclinical data and launch their product earlier than might otherwise be the case. Changes in either the patent laws or interpretation of the patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our patents or narrow the scope of our patent protection. The laws of foreign countries may not protect our rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and these foreign laws may also be subject to change. Publications of discoveries in the scientific literature often lag behind the actual discoveries, and patent applications in the United States and other jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months after filing or in some cases not at all. Therefore, we cannot be certain that we or our licensors were the first to make the inventions claimed in our owned or licensed patents or pending patent applications, or that we or our licensors were the first to file for patent protection of such inventions.. Page | 50. Index. In March 2013, the United States transitioned to a 'first to file' system in which the first inventor to file a patent application that meets the requirements for patent eligibility is entitled to the patent. Third parties are allowed to submit prior art prior to the issuance of a patent by the USPTO, and may become involved in post-grant proceedings, for example, ex parte reexamination and inter partes review proceedings on patents granted from applications filed before or after March 16, 2013, post- grant review or derivation proceedings for patents granted from applications filed on or after March 16, 2013, or interference proceedings for applications filed before March 16, 2013, challenging our patent rights or the patent rights of others. An adverse determination in any such submission, proceeding or litigation could reduce the scope of, or invalidate, our patent rights, which could adversely affect our competitive position with respect to third parties.. Obtaining and maintaining our patent protection depends on compliance with various procedural, document submissions, fee payment and other requirements imposed by governmental patent agencies, and our patent protection could be reduced or eliminated for non-compliance with these requirements.. Periodic maintenance fees on any issued/granted patent are due to be paid to the USPTO and foreign patent agencies in several stages over the lifetime of the patent. The USPTO and various foreign governmental patent agencies require compliance with a number of procedural, documentary, fee payment and other similar provisions during the patent application process. While an inadvertent lapse can in many cases be cured by payment of a late fee or by other means in accordance with the applicable rules, there are situations in which noncompliance can result in abandonment or lapse of the patent or patent application, resulting in partial or complete loss of patent rights in the relevant jurisdiction. Non-compliance events that could result in abandonment or lapse of a patent or patent application include, but are not limited to, failure to respond to official actions within prescribed time limits, non-payment of fees and failure to properly legalize and submit formal documents. If we or our licensors fail to maintain the patents and patent applications covering our product candidates, our competitors might be able to enter the market, which would have a material adverse effect on our business.. We may become involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our intellectual property, which could be expensive, time consuming and unsuccessful.. Competitors may infringe our patents or misappropriate or otherwise violate our intellectual property rights. To counter infringement or unauthorized use, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of our own intellectual property rights or the proprietary rights of others. This can be expensive and time consuming and results can be uncertain. Many of our current and potential competitors have the ability to dedicate substantially greater resources to defend their intellectual property rights than we can. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property, particularly in certain parts of the world. Litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of management resources, which could harm our business and financial results. In addition, in an infringement proceeding, a court may decide that a patent owned by, or licensed to, us is invalid or unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover the technology in question. An adverse result in any litigation proceeding could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated, held unenforceable or interpreted narrowly. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. If any of these occur, our business could be materially and adversely affected.. From time to time we may need to rely on licenses to proprietary technologies, which may be difficult, expensive or not possible to obtain or we may lose certain licenses which may be difficult or not possible to replace.. We may need to obtain licenses to patents and other proprietary rights held by third parties to develop, manufacture and market our product candidates. For example, EG-1962 requires a microparticulate delivery system to facilitate direct delivery to the brain. We have licensed certain patent rights and/or know-how from Evonik and Oakwood that may claim or cover EG-1962. It is possible that either or both of these licenses could be terminated. In that case, we may lose our ability to develop, manufacture or market certain products to the extent those products rely on Evonik and/or Oakwood patents and know-how. In such event or under other circumstances, we may have to obtain a new license from Evonik or Oakwood or some other third party, which licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we are unable to timely obtain these licenses on commercially reasonable terms and maintain these licenses, our ability to commercially market our product candidates may be inhibited or prevented, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Page | 51. Index. Third parties may initiate legal proceedings alleging that we are infringing their intellectual property rights, the outcome of which would be uncertain and could have a material adverse effect on the success of our business.. Our commercial success depends upon our ability to develop, manufacture, market and sell our product candidates, and to use our proprietary technologies without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. We may become party to, or threatened with, future adversarial proceedings or litigation regarding intellectual property rights with respect to our products and technology, including interference (for patents with an effective date before March 16, 2013) and various post grant proceedings before the USPTO, and opposition proceedings at other patent offices. Third parties may assert infringement claims against us based on existing patents or patents that may be granted in the future.  In the event a third party were to assert an infringement claim against us and we were ultimately found to infringe the third party's intellectual property rights, we could be required to obtain a license from such third party to continue developing and commercializing our products and technology. However, we may not be able to obtain an appropriate license on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Even if we are able to obtain a license, it may be non-exclusive, thereby giving our competitors access to the same technologies licensed to us. We could be forced, including by court order, to cease commercializing the infringing technology or product. In addition, in any such proceeding or litigation, we could be found liable for monetary damages. A finding of infringement could prevent us from commercializing our product candidates or force us to cease some of our business operations, which could materially harm our business. Any claims by third parties that we have misappropriated their confidential information or trade secrets could have a similar negative impact on our business.. Our trade secrets are difficult to protect.. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of our trade secrets and other proprietary information and may not adequately protect our intellectual property.. Our success depends upon the skills, knowledge and experience of our scientific and technical personnel, our consultants and advisors as well as our partners, licensors and contractors. Because we operate in a highly competitive technical field of drug discovery, we rely in part on trade secrets to protect our proprietary technology and processes. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. We enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and certain of our corporate partners, consultants, sponsored researchers and other advisors. These agreements generally require that the receiving party keep confidential and not disclose to third parties all confidential information developed by the receiving party or made known to the receiving party by us during the course of the receiving party's relationship with us.  These confidentiality and assignment agreements may be breached and may not effectively assign intellectual property rights to us.. Our trade secrets also could be independently discovered by competitors, in which case we would not be able to prevent use of such trade secrets by our competitors. The enforcement of a claim alleging that a party illegally obtained and was using our trade secrets could be difficult, expensive and time consuming and the outcome would be unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States may be less willing to protect trade secrets. The failure to obtain or maintain meaningful trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive position.. We may be subject to claims that our employees or consultants have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers or other third parties.. Many of our employees and consultants were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Some of these employees, including each member of our senior management, and consultants executed proprietary rights, non-disclosure and non-competition agreements in connection with such previous employment. Although we try to ensure that our employees and consultants do not use the proprietary information or know-how of others in their work for us, we may be subject to claims that we or these employees and consultants have used or disclosed intellectual property, including trade secrets or other proprietary information, of any such employee's or consultant's former employer. We are not aware of any threatened or pending claims related to these matters or concerning the agreements with our senior management, but in the future litigation may be necessary to defend against such claims. If we fail in defending any such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. Even if we are successful in defending against such claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management.. Intellectual property disputes could cause us to spend substantial resources and distract our personnel from their normal responsibilities.. Even if resolved in our favor, litigation or other legal proceedings relating to intellectual property claims may cause us to incur significant expenses, and could distract our technical and/or management personnel from their normal responsibilities. In addition, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments and if securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Such litigation or proceedings could substantially increase our operating losses and reduce the resources available for development activities or any future sales, marketing or distribution activities. We may not have sufficient financial or other resources to adequately conduct such litigation or proceedings. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation or proceedings more effectively than we can because of their greater financial resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace.. Page | 52. Index. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights throughout the world.. Filing, prosecuting and defending patents on all of our product candidates throughout the world could be prohibitively expensive.. Competitors may use our technologies in jurisdictions where we have not obtained patent protection to develop their own products and further, may export otherwise infringing products to territories where we have patent protection, but where enforcement is not as strong as that in the United States. These products may compete with our products in jurisdictions where we do not have any issued/granted patents and our patent claims or other intellectual property rights may not be effective or sufficient to prevent them from so competing.. Many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions. The legal systems of certain countries do not favor the enforcement of patents and other intellectual property protection, particularly those relating to biopharmaceuticals, which could make it difficult for us to stop the infringement of our patents or marketing of competing products in violation of our proprietary rights generally. Proceedings to enforce our patent rights in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial cost and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business and will have uncertain outcomes.. Latest European General Court's decisions on public access to clinical trial data held by EMA. On February 5, 2018, the European General Court delivered three judgments relating to Pari Pharma GmbH v EMA (Case T-235/1); MSD Animal Health Innovation and Intervet International v EMA (Case T-729/15) and PTC Therapeutics International v EMA (Case T-718/15). These judgments clarified the meaning of commercially confidential information, or CCI, and determined whether the EMA had failed to carry out balancing exercise, as required by EU law when deciding whether certain documents held by the EMA should be disclosed to third parties upon request. These European Court decisions are very significant in relation to the ability for third parties to access data contained in applications for marketing authorization which are held by the EMA.. The European General Court has ruled that the general presumption is subject to certain, narrowly construed criteria. Documents held by the EMA can be withheld from disclosure if they constitute CCI and it is incumbent upon the data owner to show specifically and actually how, once the documents have been disclosed, competitors would be able to enter the relevant market. The assembly of public and private data may constitute CCI if the assembly provides added value but there is no added value if the data were submitted in response to questions raised by the EMA. The fact that money or resources have been spent to obtain the information does not automatically make that information CCI. Data that have been obtained using study designs contained in publicly available guidelines are unlikely to be considered CCI. It is insufficient to refer to the documents as constituting a 'road map' for competitors to follow as any such assertion must be supported by unique and specific evidence. The Court has ruled that the unfair use of information by competitors is curtailed by the data exclusivity/protection principles; the fact that competitors have to run their own studies to obtain a marketing authorization; certain categories of information are already protected by the exceptions provided in the EU Public Access Regulation 1049/2001. The Court has ruled that misuse of the data by a competitor is not relevant to an assessment of CCI, and the argument that data exclusivity or protection may be lost due to use of the disclosed documents in third countries does not make the data in question confidential.  As regards the requirement for a balancing exercise, the General Court has ruled that unless the documents are protected by an exception provided in the EU Public Access Regulation, the EMA is not under any obligation to show that there is an overriding public interest to justify disclosing the documents. When the EMA claims the existence of an overriding public interest, it must set out specific circumstances to justify the disclosure of CCI.. Risks Related to Our Financial Position and Capital Needs. We have incurred significant losses since our inception and anticipate that we will continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future.. We are a clinical-stage biotechnology company. Investment in biotechnology product development is highly speculative because it entails substantial upfront capital expenditures and significant risk that a product candidate, such as EG-1962, our lead product candidate, will fail to gain regulatory approval or become commercially viable. We have not generated any revenue from product sales to date, and we continue to incur significant development and other expenses related to our ongoing operations. As a result, we are not profitable and have incurred losses in each period since our inception in 2009. For the years ended December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, we reported a net loss of $50.9 million and $38.8 million, respectively.. We expect to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future, and we expect these losses to increase as we continue our development of, and seek regulatory approvals for, our product candidates, and begin to commercialize any approved products. We may encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications, delays and other unknown factors that may adversely affect our business. The size of our future net losses will depend, in part, on the rate of future growth of our expenses and our ability to generate revenues. If EG-1962 or any of our other product candidates fails in clinical studies or does not gain regulatory approval, or if approved, fails to achieve market acceptance, we may never become profitable. Even if we achieve profitability in the future, we may not be able to sustain profitability in subsequent periods. Our prior losses and expected future losses have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our stockholders' (deficit) equity and working capital.. Page | 53. Index. We have not generated any revenues since inception and may never become profitable.. We have not generated any revenues since our inception. Our ability to generate revenue and become profitable depends upon our ability to successfully obtain marketing approval and commercialize products, including EG-1962 or other product candidates that we may develop, in-license or acquire in the future. Even if we are able to successfully achieve regulatory approval for these product candidates, we do not know when any of these products will generate revenue for us, if at all. Our ability to generate revenue from EG-1962 or other product candidates also depends on a number of additional factors, including our ability to:. <U+25CF>  successfully complete development activities, including the necessary clinical trials;. <U+25CF>  complete and submit marketing authorization applications to the FDA and obtain regulatory approval for an indication for which there is a commercial market;. <U+25CF>  complete and submit marketing authorization applications to, and obtain regulatory approval from, foreign regulatory authorities;. <U+25CF>  set a commercially viable price for our products;. <U+25CF>  develop and obtain commercial quantities of our products at acceptable cost levels;. <U+25CF>  develop a commercial organization capable of sales, marketing and distribution for the products we intend to sell ourselves in the markets in which we have retained commercialization rights;. <U+25CF>  find suitable partners to help us market, sell and distribute our approved products in other markets; and. <U+25CF>  obtain coverage and adequate reimbursement from third party, including government, payors.. In addition, because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with product development, including that our product candidates may not advance through development or be shown to be safe and effective for their intended uses, the FDA or any other regulatory agency may require additional clinical trials or preclinical studies. We are unable to predict the timing or amount of increased expenses, or when or if we will be able to achieve or maintain profitability. Even if we are able to complete the process described above, we anticipate incurring significant costs associated with commercializing these products.. Even if we are able to generate revenues from the sale of our products, we may not become profitable and may need to obtain additional funding to continue operations. If we fail to become profitable or are unable to sustain profitability on a continuing basis, then we may be unable to continue our operations at planned levels and be forced to reduce our operations.. We have a limited operating history, which may make it difficult for potential or current investors to evaluate the success of our business to date and to assess our future viability.. We were formed in January 2009. Our operations to date have been limited to organizing and staffing our company, acquiring or developing product and technology rights, and conducting product development activities for our product candidates, primarily EG- 1962. We have not yet obtained regulatory approval for any of our product candidates. Consequently, any predictions about our future success, performance or viability may not be as accurate as they could be if we had a longer operating history or approved products on the market.. We will require additional capital to fund our operations and if we fail to obtain necessary financing, we will not be able to complete the development and commercialization of our product candidates, including EG-1962.. Our operations have consumed substantial amounts of cash since inception. We expect to continue to spend substantial amounts to advance the clinical development of our product candidates and to launch and commercialize any product candidates for which we receive regulatory approval, including potentially building our own commercial organization to address the United States and certain other markets. As of December 31, 2017, we had cash and cash equivalents of $88.1 million. We may require additional capital for the further development of our product candidates and, if we conduct additional Phase 3 studies of EG-1962, we may need to raise additional funds sooner in order to accelerate development of our product candidates.  Furthermore, we will need to raise additional funds to commercialize any of our product candidates.. We cannot be certain that additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us we may have to significantly delay, scale back or discontinue the development or commercialization of one or more of our products or product candidates or one or more of our other research and development initiatives. We also could be required to:. Page | 54. Index. <U+25CF>  seek collaborators or licensees for one or more of our current or future product candidates at an earlier stage than otherwise would be desirable or on terms that are less favorable than might otherwise be available; or. <U+25CF>  relinquish or license on unfavorable terms our rights to technologies or product candidates that we otherwise would seek to develop or commercialize ourselves.. Our forecast of the period of time through which our financial resources will be adequate to support our operations is a forward-looking statement and involves risks and uncertainties, and actual results could vary as a result of a number of factors, including the factors discussed elsewhere in this \"Risk Factors\" section. We have based this estimate on assumptions that may prove to be wrong, and we could utilize our available capital resources sooner than we currently expect. Our future funding requirements, both near and long-term, will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to:. <U+25CF>  the progress, timing, costs and results of the clinical studies for our product candidates to obtain regulatory approval;. <U+25CF>  the outcome of our efforts to demonstrate clinical superiority over Nymalize in order to obtain marketing approval prior to the expiration of Nymalize's orphan drug exclusivity period, including whether FDA accepts data from a head-to-head study of EG-1962 against a Nimotop generic (gelcap) and nimodipine tablets to demonstrate superiority over Nymalize;. <U+25CF>  the clinical development plans we establish for our product candidates;. <U+25CF>  the number and characteristics of product candidates that we develop or may in-license;. <U+25CF>  the outcome, timing and cost of meeting regulatory requirements established by the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities, including the potential for the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities to require that we perform more studies than those that we currently expect;. <U+25CF>  the cost of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing our patent claims and other intellectual property rights;. <U+25CF>  the cost of defending intellectual property disputes, including patent infringement actions brought by third parties against us or our product candidates;. <U+25CF>  the effect of competing technological and market developments;. <U+25CF>  the cost and timing of completion of commercial-scale outsourced manufacturing activities; and. <U+25CF>  the cost of establishing sales, marketing and distribution capabilities for any product candidates for which we may receive regulatory approval in regions where we choose to commercialize our products on our own.. Our debt obligations expose us to risks that could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition and may result in further dilution to our shareholders.. We have amended our loan and security agreement with Hercules Capital, Inc., or Hercules (the \"Amended Loan Agreement\"), pursuant to which we may borrow up to $20.0 million from Hercules at an initial interest rate of 9.15% per annum, and for which we have paid Hercules an origination fee of $170,000.  At closing, we borrowed $15.0 million of the amount available to draw under the Amended Loan Agreement (and received proceeds net of the amount then outstanding under the Original Loan Agreement (as defined below), fees and expenses).  On May 23, 2017, we elected to draw down the second tranche of $5 million.  We were required to repay the indebtedness on or before February 3, 2020, however, as a result of achieving certain milestones under the Amended Loan Agreement, the maturity date has been extended to August 3, 2020. Further, the loan originally required interest only payments through March 1, 2018, however as a result of achieving such milestones, the interest only payments have been extended to September 1, 2018, whereupon we must make 24 equal monthly payments of principal plus interest. To the extent we desire to prepay the indebtedness prior to maturity, we will be obligated to pay a prepayment penalty to Hercules ranging from 0.5% to 2% of the amounts being prepaid, depending on when such prepayment occurs. In addition, at the time that the loan is either due or prepaid, we must pay Hercules a fee equal to 4.5% of the total amounts funded at such time. Our ability to make payments on this indebtedness depends on our ability to generate cash in the future. We expect to experience negative cash flow for the foreseeable future as we fund our operations and capital expenditures. There can be no assurance that we will be in a position to repay this indebtedness when due or obtain extensions of the maturity date. We anticipate that we will need to secure additional funding in order for us to be able to satisfy our obligations when due. We cannot guarantee that future financing will be available in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If that additional funding involves the sale of equity securities or convertible securities, it would result in the issuance of additional shares of our capital stock, which would result in dilution to our stockholders. The indebtedness is secured by substantially all of our assets other than intellectual property, on which we have given Hercules a negative pledge. In addition, under the Amended Loan Agreement, we are subject to certain customary covenants that limit or restrict our ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, grant any security interests, pay cash dividends, repurchase our common stock, make loans, or enter into certain transactions without the prior consent of Hercules.. Page | 55. Index. This level of debt could have important consequences to an investor in our securities. For example, it could:. <U+25CF>  limit our flexibility in planning for the development, clinical testing, approval and marketing of our products;. <U+25CF>  place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to any of our competitors that are less leveraged than we are;. <U+25CF>  increase our vulnerability to both general and industry-specific adverse economic conditions; and. <U+25CF>  limit our ability to obtain additional funds.. In addition, as part of a previous financing with Hercules, we issued a warrant to Hercules to purchase up to 78,596 shares of our Common Stock, which is exercisable until October of 2020. See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources\" for a more detailed discussion of the transaction with Hercules.. Raising additional capital may cause dilution to our stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish rights to our technologies or product candidates.. We may seek additional capital through a combination of private and public equity offerings, debt financings, strategic partnerships and alliances and licensing arrangements, although our existing loan with Hercules may limit the amount of additional debt we may issue. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, our then-existing stockholders' ownership interest will be diluted, and the terms may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect the rights of then-existing stockholders. Debt financings may be coupled with an equity component, such as warrants to purchase stock, which could also result in dilution of our then-existing stockholders' ownership. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased fixed payment obligations and could also result in certain restrictive covenants, such as limitations on our ability to incur additional debt, limitations on our ability to acquire or license intellectual property rights and other operating restrictions that could adversely impact our ability to conduct our business and may result in liens being placed on our assets and intellectual property. If we were to default on such indebtedness, we could lose such assets and intellectual property. If we raise additional funds through strategic partnerships and alliances and licensing arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our product candidates, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock. The trading market in our common stock has been extremely limited and substantially less liquid than the average trading market for a stock quoted on the NASDAQ Global Market.. Prior to our initial public offering, or IPO, there was no market for shares of our common stock. Since our initial listing on the NASDAQ Global Market on October 1, 2015, the trading market in our common stock has been limited and substantially less liquid than the average trading market for companies quoted on the NASDAQ Global Market. The quotation of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market does not assure that a meaningful, consistent and liquid trading market currently exists. We cannot predict whether a more active market for our common stock will develop in the future. An absence of an active trading market could adversely affect our stockholders' ability to sell our common stock at current market prices in short time periods, or possibly at all. Additionally, market visibility for our common stock may be limited and such lack of visibility may have a depressive effect on the market price for our common stock. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 49% of our outstanding shares of common stock was held by our officers, directors, beneficial owners of 5% or more of our capital stock and their respective affiliates, which adversely affects the liquidity of the trading market for our common stock, inasmuch as federal securities laws restrict sales of our shares by these stockholders under certain circumstances. If our affiliates continue to hold their shares of common stock, there will be limited trading volume in our common stock, which may make it more difficult for investors to sell their shares or increase the volatility of our stock price.. Market volatility may affect our stock price and the value of our stockholders' investment.. The trading price of our common stock, similar to other biotechnology companies, is likely to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control, including, among others:. <U+25CF>  announcement of the results of or any other information about our NEWTON 2 Phase 3 program for EG-1962 or any other future clinical studies of our product candidates, including any delays in enrollment rates or timing of these studies, as well as the lack of news about the status of our programs;. Page | 56. Index. <U+25CF>  regulatory actions with respect to our products or our competitors' products;. <U+25CF>  the recruitment or departure of key personnel;. <U+25CF>  announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, collaborations or capital commitments;. <U+25CF>  results of clinical trials of our competitors;. <U+25CF>  the success of competitive products or technologies;. <U+25CF>  actual or anticipated changes in our growth rate relative to our competitors;. <U+25CF>  regulatory or legal developments in the United States and other countries;. <U+25CF>  developments or disputes concerning patent applications, issued/granted patents or other proprietary rights;. <U+25CF>  the level of expenses related to any of our product candidates or clinical development programs;. <U+25CF>  actual or anticipated changes in estimates as to financial results, development timelines or recommendations by securities analysts;. <U+25CF>  variations in our financial results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to us;. <U+25CF>  fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us;. <U+25CF>  share price and volume fluctuations attributable to inconsistent trading volume levels of our shares;. <U+25CF>  announcement or expectation of additional financing efforts;. <U+25CF>  sales of our common stock by us, our insiders or our other stockholders;. <U+25CF>  changes in the structure of healthcare payment systems;. <U+25CF>  market conditions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors; and. <U+25CF>  general economic, industry and market conditions.. In addition, the stock market in general, and pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies.. Broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. The realization of any of the above risks or any of a broad range of other risks, including those described in these \"Risk Factors,\" could have a dramatic and material adverse impact on the market price of our common stock.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research, publish inaccurate or unfavorable research or cease publishing research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. The price of our common stock could decline if one or more equity research analysts downgrade our common stock or if analysts issue other unfavorable commentary or cease publishing reports about us or our business. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which might cause our stock price and trading volume to decline.. Future sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market or other issuances of our common stock or rights to purchase common stock, including pursuant to equity incentive plans could result in additional dilution of the percentage ownership of our stockholders and could cause our stock price to fall.. Our stock price could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock, including shares issuable upon exercise of stock options and warrants, or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate.. Page | 57. Index. As of December 31, 2017, the holders of up to 3,290,905 shares, or 11%, of our common stock outstanding, will have rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering the sale of their shares or to include their shares in registration statements we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. Once we register the offer and sale of shares for the holders of registration rights, they can be freely sold in the public market.. In addition, in the future, we may issue additional shares of common stock or other equity or debt securities convertible into common stock in connection with a financing, acquisition, litigation settlement, employee arrangements, or otherwise. Any such issuance could result in substantial dilution to our then-existing stockholders and could cause our stock price to decline.. Future issuances of our common stock or rights to purchase common stock, including pursuant to our equity incentive plans, could result in additional dilution of the percentage ownership of our stockholders and could cause our stock price to fall.. We expect that significant additional capital will be needed in the future to continue our planned operations. To raise capital, or in connection with an acquisition, litigation settlement, employee arrangements or otherwise, we may sell substantial amounts of common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for common stock. These future issuances of common stock or common stock-related securities, together with the exercise of outstanding options and warrants to purchase 6,837,448 shares of common stock as of December 31, 2017 and any additional shares issued in connection with acquisitions, if any, may result in material dilution to our then-existing stockholders, and new investors could gain rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock.. We may be at an increased risk of securities litigation, which is expensive and could divert management attention.. The market price of our common stock may be volatile, and in the past companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business.. Our principal stockholders and management own a significant percentage of our stock and will be able to exert significant control over matters subject to stockholder approval.. As of December 31, 2017, our executive officers, directors, holders of 5% or more of our capital stock and their respective affiliates beneficially owned approximately 49% of our outstanding voting stock (assuming no exercise of outstanding stock options). These stockholders may be able to determine the outcome of all matters requiring stockholder approval. For example, these stockholders may be able to control elections of directors, amendments of our organizational documents, or approval of any merger, sale of assets or other major corporate transaction. This may prevent or discourage unsolicited acquisition proposals or offers for our common stock that our then-existing stockholders' may feel are in their best interest. The interests of this group of stockholders may not always coincide with your interests or the interests of other stockholders and they may act in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders, including seeking a premium value for their common stock, and might affect the prevailing market price for our common stock.. Some provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law may have anti-takeover effects that could discourage an acquisition of us by others, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management.. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, or certificate of incorporation, and amended and restated bylaws, or bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us or increase the cost of acquiring us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders, or remove our current management. These provisions include:. <U+25CF>  authorizing the issuance of \"blank check\" preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval;. <U+25CF>  prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow for less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates;. <U+25CF>  prohibiting stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders;. <U+25CF>  eliminating the ability of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders;. Page | 58. Index. <U+25CF>  establishing a staggered board of directors; and. <U+25CF>  establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings.. These provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, who are responsible for appointing the members of our management. Because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring us or merging with us whether or not it is desired by or beneficial to our stockholders. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not, in general, engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. Any provision of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or amended and restated bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock.. Because we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our capital stock in the foreseeable future, capital appreciation, if any, will be our stockholders' sole source of gain.. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently intend to retain all of our future earnings, if any, to finance the growth and development of our business. In addition, the terms of our outstanding indebtedness preclude, and any future debt agreements may preclude us from paying dividends. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be our stockholders' sole source of gain for the foreseeable future.. We are an \"emerging growth company\" and we intend to take advantage of reduced disclosure and governance requirements applicable to emerging growth companies, which could result in our common stock being less attractive to investors.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the JOBS Act, and we intend to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive because we will rely on these exemptions. We may take advantage of these reporting exemptions until we are no longer an emerging growth company, which could potentially be for up to five years after the date of our IPO, which occurred on October 1, 2015.  If investors find our common stock less attractive as a result of our reduced reporting requirements, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile. We may also be unable to raise additional capital as and when we need it.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting in the future, we may not be able to accurately report our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, which may adversely affect investor confidence in us and, as a result, the value of our common stock.. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal controls for financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. This annual report on Form 10-K includes a report by management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. This assessment includes disclosure of any material weaknesses identified by our management in our internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting that results in more than a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act also generally requires an attestation from our independent registered public accounting firm on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. However, for as long as we remain an emerging growth company as defined in the JOBS Act, we intend to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the independent registered public accounting firm attestation requirement.. Our compliance with Section 404 requires that we incur additional accounting expense and management efforts. We currently do not have an internal audit group. We may not be able to complete any required Section 404 evaluation, testing and remediation in a timely fashion. During the evaluation and testing process, if we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. We cannot assure our stockholders that there will not be material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting in the future. Any failure to maintain internal control over financial reporting could severely inhibit our ability to accurately report our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. If we are unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm determines we have a material weakness or significant deficiency in our internal control over financial reporting, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, the market price of our common stock could decline, and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by NASDAQ, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, or other regulatory authorities. Failure to remedy any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, or to implement or maintain other effective control systems required of public companies, could also restrict our future access to the capital markets.. Page | 59. Index. Our disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud.. Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to reasonably assure that information required to be disclosed by us in reports we file or submit under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to management, recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the SEC. We believe that any disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met.. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people or by an unauthorized override of the controls. Accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in our control system, misstatements or insufficient disclosures due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.. Page | 60. Index"
