[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors.. Risk Factors Relating to our Operations. Our business is sensitive to reductions in discretionary consumer spending as a result of downturns in the economy and other factors outside our control. Consumer demand for casino hotel and racetrack properties such as ours is particularly sensitive to downturns in the economy and the associated impact on discretionary spending on leisure activities. Changes in discretionary consumer spending or consumer preferences brought about by factors such as perceived or actual general economic conditions, effects of declines in consumer confidence in the economy, the impact of high energy and food costs, the increased cost of travel, the potential for continued bank failures, decreased disposable consumer income and wealth, or fears of war and future acts of terrorism could further reduce customer demand for the amenities that we offer. In addition, increases in gasoline prices, including increases prompted by global political and economic instabilities, can adversely affect our operations because most of our patrons travel to our properties by car or on airlines that may pass on increases in fuel costs to passengers in the form of higher ticket prices. Further, security concerns, terrorist attacks and other geopolitical events can have a material adverse effect on leisure and business travel, discretionary spending and other areas of economic behavior that directly impact the gaming and entertainment industries in general and our business in particular. Economic downturns, geopolitical events and other related factors which impact discretionary consumer spending and other economic events that are beyond our control have had direct effects on our business and the tourism industry in the past and could adversely affect us in the future.. We face substantial competition in the hotel and casino industry and expect that such competition will continue. The gaming industry is characterized by an increasingly high degree of competition among a large number of participants, including land-based casinos, dockside casinos, riverboat casinos, casinos located on racing tracks and casinos located on Native American reservations and other forms of legalized gaming such as video gaming terminals (VGTs) at bars, restaurants and truck stops. We also compete, to a lesser extent, with other forms of legalized gaming and entertainment such as online computer gambling, bingo, pull tab games, card parlors, sports books, fantasy sports websites, \"cruise-to-nowhere\" operations, pari-mutuel or telephonic betting on horse racing and dog racing, state-sponsored lotteries, jai-alai, and, in the future, may compete with gaming at other venues. In addition, we compete more generally with other forms of entertainment for the discretionary spending of our customers.. 10. Gaming competition is intense in most of the markets in which we operate. States that already have legalized casino gaming may further expand gaming, and other states that have not yet legalized gaming may do so in the future. Legalized casino gaming in these states and on Native American reservations in or near our markets or changes to gaming laws in states in which we have operations and in states near our operations could increase competition and could adversely affect our operations. There has been significant competition in our markets as a result of the expansion of facilities by existing market participants, the entrance of new gaming participants into a market or legislative changes in prior years and expanded gaming is under consideration in certain of our markets. For example, gaming facilities in Ohio that commenced operations in recent years present significant competition for Mountaineer, Presque Isle Downs, Nemacolin and Scioto Downs. In addition, the Governor of Pennsylvania signed legislation in October 2017 expanding gaming to allow for up to ten additional casino locations, video gaming terminals (VGTs) at truck stops, interactive gaming (iGaming), gaming at airports and potentially sports wagering. Further, there are two bills pending before the Missouri General Assembly for the expansion of gaming by allowing Class B gaming licensees and daily fantasy sports licensees to conduct sports wagering and the operation of VLTs at various bars, restaurants, veterans and fraternal organizations and convenience stores throughout the state. Any such expansion of legalized gaming could adversely impact our properties.. Casino gaming is currently prohibited in several jurisdictions from which the Shreveport/Bossier City and Lake Charles markets draw customers, primarily Texas. The Texas legislature has from time to time considered proposals to legalize gaming, and there can be no assurance that casino gaming will not be approved in Texas in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on Eldorado Shreveport and Isle Lake Charles. Additionally, since visitors from California comprise a significant portion of our customer base in Reno, we also compete with Native American gaming operations in California. Native American tribes are allowed to operate slot machines, lottery games and banking and percentage games on Native American lands. Although many existing Native American gaming facilities in northern California are modest compared to the Nevada properties, a number of Native American tribes have established large-scale gaming facilities in California. Additionally, from time to time the State of Florida has entered into or amended gaming compacts with Native American casinos or enacted, amended or discussed possible changes in gaming laws which could have positive or negative impacts on our Pompano operations. In addition, various forms of internet gaming have been approved in Nevada, New Jersey, Delaware, and Pennsylvania, and legislation permitting internet gaming has been proposed by the federal government and other states. The expansion of internet gaming in Nevada and other jurisdictions could result in significant additional competition.. Increased competition may require us to make substantial capital expenditures to maintain and enhance the competitive positions of our properties to increase the attractiveness and add to the appeal of our facilities. Because we are highly leveraged, after satisfying our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness, there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient funds to undertake these expenditures or that we will be able to obtain sufficient financing to fund such expenditures. If we are unable to make such expenditures, our competitive position could be negatively affected.. Our operations in certain jurisdictions depend on agreements with third parties. Our operations in several jurisdictions depend on agreements with third parties. If we are unable to renew these agreements on satisfactory terms as they expire, our business may be disrupted and, in the event of disruptions in multiple jurisdictions, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For example, Iowa law requires that each gambling venue in Iowa must have a licensed \"Qualified Sponsoring Organization,\" or QSO, which is a tax-exempt non-profit organization. The QSO must donate the profits it receives from casino operations to educational, civic, public, charitable, patriotic or religious uses. Each of our three Iowa properties has an agreement with a local QSO. We have the right to renew our agreements for Bettendorf and Waterloo when they expire in 2025 and 2021, respectively.. The Federal Interstate Horse Racing Act and the state racing laws in certain jurisdictions where we have racetracks require that, in order to simulcast races, we have written agreements with the horse owners and trainers at those racetracks or that we share proceeds of slot machines at the applicable racetrack. If we fail to maintain operative agreements with the horsemen at our racetracks, we will not be permitted to conduct live racing and export and import simulcasting, and may not be permitted to continue our gaming operations, at the applicable racetrack at those facilities, which could have material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We have a management agreement with Nemacolin Woodlands Resort, the owner of the gaming license issued by the Pennsylvania Gaming Control Board allowing operation of a casino at the resort. Under the terms of this agreement, we constructed and currently operate a casino at the resort. Our management agreement is subject to a buy-out provision on or after December 31, 2021, as well as other terms and conditions which could result in termination of the management agreement. The base term of the agreement is ten years, with four, five-year renewal options. Additionally, each party to the management agreement has certain termination rights. If the management agreement is terminated, we will no longer have the right to manage our casino at Nemacolin Woodlands Resort.. 11. We are subject to extensive state and local regulation and licensing, and gaming authorities have significant control over our operations, which could have an adverse effect on our business. Licensing Requirements.  The ownership and operation of casino gaming, riverboat and horseracing facilities are subject to extensive federal, state, and local regulation, and regulatory authorities at the federal, state, and local levels have broad powers with respect to the licensing of gaming businesses and may revoke, suspend, condition or limit our gaming or other licenses, impose substantial fines, and take other actions, each of which poses a significant risk to our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We currently hold all state and local licenses and related approvals necessary to conduct our present gaming operations, but we must periodically apply to renew many of our licenses and registrations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such renewals. Any failure to maintain or renew our existing licenses, registrations, permits or approvals would have a material adverse effect on us. Furthermore, if additional laws or regulations are adopted or existing laws or regulations are amended, these regulations could impose additional restrictions or costs that could have a significant adverse effect on us.. Gaming authorities with jurisdiction over our operations may, in their discretion, require the holder of any securities issued by us to file applications, be investigated, and be found suitable to own our securities if they have reason to believe that the security ownership would be inconsistent with the declared policies of their respective jurisdictions. Further, the costs of any investigation conducted by any of the Gaming Authorities under these circumstances must be paid by the applicant, and refusal or failure to pay these charges may constitute grounds for a finding that the applicant is unsuitable to own the securities. If any of the Gaming Authorities determines that a person is unsuitable to own our securities, then, under the applicable gaming or horse racing laws and regulations, we can be sanctioned, including the loss of approvals that are required for us to continue our gaming operations in the relevant jurisdictions, if such unsuitable person does not timely sell our securities.. Our officers, directors, and key employees are also subject to a variety of regulatory requirements and various licensing and related approval procedures in the various jurisdictions in which we operate gaming facilities. If any of the applicable Gaming Authorities were to find an officer, director or key employee of ours unsuitable for licensing or unsuitable to continue having a relationship with us, we would have to sever all relationships with that person. Furthermore, the Gaming Authorities may require us to terminate the employment of any person who refuses to file appropriate applications. Either result could materially adversely affect our gaming operations.. Applicable gaming laws and regulations restrict our ability to issue securities, incur debt and undertake other financing activities. Such transactions would generally require approval of applicable Gaming Authorities, and our financing counterparties, including lenders, might be subject to various licensing and related approval procedures in the various jurisdictions in which we operate gaming facilities. If state regulatory authorities were to find any person unsuitable with regard to his, her or its relationship to us or any of our subsidiaries, we would be required to sever our relationships with that person, which could materially adversely affect our business.. Compliance with Other Laws.  We are also subject to a variety of other federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations and ordinances that apply to non-gaming businesses, including zoning, environmental, construction and land-use laws and regulations governing smoking and the serving of alcoholic beverages. Legislation in various forms to ban indoor tobacco smoking has been enacted or introduced in many states and local jurisdictions, including several of the jurisdictions in which we operate. If additional restrictions on smoking are enacted in our jurisdictions, we could experience a significant decrease in gaming revenue and, particularly if such restrictions are not applicable to all competitive facilities in that gaming market, our business could be materially adversely affected. Under various federal, state and local laws and regulations, an owner or operator of real property may be held liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances or wastes located on its property, regardless of whether or not the present owner or operator knows of, or is responsible for, the presence of such substances or wastes. We have not identified any issues associated with our properties that could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on us or the results of our operations. However, several of our properties are located in industrial areas or were used for industrial purposes for many years. As a consequence, it is possible that historical or neighboring activities have affected one or more of our properties and that, as a result, environmental issues could arise in the future, the precise nature of which we cannot now predict. The coverage and attendant compliance costs associated with these laws, regulations and ordinances may result in future additional costs.. 12. Regulations adopted by FINCEN require us to report currency transactions in excess of $10,000 occurring within a gaming day, including identification of the patron by name and social security number. U.S. Treasury Department regulations also require us to report certain suspicious activity, including any transaction that exceeds $5,000, if we know, suspect or have reason to believe that the transaction involves funds from illegal activity or is designed to evade federal regulations or reporting requirements. Substantial penalties can be imposed if we fail to comply with these regulations. FINCEN has recently increased its focus on gaming companies.. We are required to report certain customer's gambling winnings via form W-2G to comply with current Internal Revenue Service regulations. Should these regulations change, we would expect to incur additional costs to comply with the revised reporting requirements.. Taxation and Fees. In addition, gaming companies are generally subject to significant revenue-based taxes and fees in addition to normal federal, state, and local income taxes, and such taxes and fees are subject to increase at any time. We pay substantial taxes and fees with respect to our operations. From time to time, federal, state, and local legislators and officials have proposed changes in tax laws, or in the administration of such laws, affecting the gaming industry. In addition, worsening economic conditions could intensify the efforts of state and local governments to raise revenues through increases in gaming taxes and/or property taxes. It is not possible to determine with certainty the likelihood of changes in tax laws or in the administration of such laws. Such changes, if adopted, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The large number of state and local governments with significant current or projected budget deficits makes it more likely that those governments that currently permit gaming will seek to fund such deficits with new or increased gaming taxes and/or property taxes, and worsening economic conditions could intensify those efforts. Any material increase, or the adoption of additional taxes or fees, could have a material adverse effect on our future financial results.. Income Taxes. We are subject to tax in multiple U.S. tax jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets or liabilities and in evaluating our tax positions. While we believe our tax positions are consistent with the tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business, it is possible that these positions may be overturned by jurisdictional tax authorities, which may have a significant impact on our provision for income taxes.. Tax laws are dynamic and subject to change as new laws are passed and new interpretations of the law are issued or applied. The U.S. recently enacted significant tax reform, and certain provisions of the new law may adversely affect us. In addition, governmental tax authorities are increasingly scrutinizing the tax positions of companies. If U.S. or state tax authorities change applicable tax laws, our overall taxes could increase, and our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely impacted.. We rely on our key personnel and we may face difficulties in attracting and retaining qualified employees for our casinos and race tracks. Our future success will depend upon, among other things, our ability to keep our senior executives and highly qualified employees. We compete with other potential employers for employees, and we may not succeed in hiring or retaining the executives and other employees that we need. A sudden loss of or inability to replace key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation.. In addition, the operation of our business requires qualified executives, managers and skilled employees with gaming and horse racing industry experience and qualifications who are able to obtain the requisite licenses and approval from the applicable Gaming Authorities. While not currently the case, there has from time to time been a shortage of skilled labor in our markets. In addition to limitations that may otherwise exist in the supply of skilled labor, the continued expansion of gaming near our facilities, including the expansion of Native American gaming, may make it more difficult for us to attract qualified individuals. While we believe that we will continue to be able to attract and retain qualified employees, shortages of skilled labor will make it increasingly difficult and expensive to attract and retain the services of a satisfactory number of qualified employees, and we may incur higher costs than expected as a result.. 13. Work stoppages, organizing drives and other labor problems could negatively impact our future profits. As of December 31, 2017, we had 11 collective bargaining agreements covering approximately 970 employees. A lengthy strike or other work stoppages at any of our casino properties could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Given the large number of employees, labor unions are making a concerted effort to recruit more employees in the gaming industry, including at some of our properties. As a result, we cannot provide any assurance that we will not experience additional and more successful union organization activity in the future.. Some of our casinos are located on leased property. If we default on one or more leases, the applicable lessors could terminate the affected leases and we could lose possession of the affected casino. We lease certain parcels of land on which several of our properties are located. As a ground lessee, we have the right to use the leased land; however, we do not hold fee ownership in the underlying land. Accordingly, with respect to the leased land, we will have no interest in the land or improvements thereon at the expiration of the ground leases. Moreover, since we do not completely control the land underlying the property, a landowner could take certain actions to disrupt our rights in the land leased under the long-term leases which are beyond our control. If the entity owning any leased land chose to disrupt our use either permanently or for a significant period of time, then the value of our assets could be impaired and our business and operations could be adversely affected. If we were to default on any one or more of these leases, the applicable lessors could terminate the affected leases and we could lose possession of the affected land and any improvements on the land, including the hotels and casinos. This would have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations as we would then be unable to operate all or portions of the affected facilities and may result in the default under our new credit facility.. Because we own real property, we will be subject to extensive environmental regulation, which creates uncertainty regarding future environmental expenditures and liabilities. We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that govern activities that may have adverse environmental effects, such as discharges to air and water, as well as the use, storage, discharge, emission and disposal of solid, animal and hazardous wastes and exposure to hazardous materials. These laws and regulations are complex and frequently subject to change. In addition, our horseracing facilities are subject to laws and regulations that address the impacts of manure and wastewater generated by Concentrated Animal Feeding Operations (\"CAFO\") on water quality, including, but not limited to, storm water discharges. CAFO regulations include permit requirements and water quality discharge standards. Enforcement of CAFO regulations has been receiving increased governmental attention. Compliance with these and other environmental laws can, in some circumstances, require significant capital expenditures. We have from time to time been responsible for investigating and remediating, or contributing to remediation costs related to, contamination located at or near certain of our facilities, including contamination related to underground storage tanks and groundwater contamination arising from prior uses of land on which certain of our facilities are located. In addition, we have been, and may in the future be, required to manage, abate, remove or contain manure and wastewater generated by concentrated animal feeding operations due to our racetrack operations, mold, lead, asbestos - containing materials or other hazardous conditions found in or on our properties. Moreover, violations can result in significant fines or penalties and, in some instances, interruption or cessation of operations.. We are also subject to laws and regulations that create liability and cleanup responsibility for releases of regulated materials into the environment. Certain of these laws and regulations impose strict, and under certain circumstances joint and several, liability on a current or previous owner or operator of property for the costs of remediating regulated materials on or emanating from its property. The costs of investigation, remediation or removal of those substances may be substantial.. 14. An earthquake, hurricane, flood, other natural disaster or act of terrorism could adversely affect our business. The operations of our facilities are subject to disruption or reduced patronage as a result of severe weather conditions, natural disasters and other casualty events. The Reno area has been, and may in the future be, subject to earthquakes and other natural disasters and Eldorado Shreveport is located in a designated flood zone. Because many of our gaming operations are located on or adjacent to bodies of water, these facilities are subject to risks in addition to those associated with other casinos, including loss of service due to casualty, forces of nature, mechanical failure, extended or extraordinary maintenance, flood, hurricane or other severe weather conditions and other disasters. For example, flooding along the Mississippi River can impact five or more of our properties and result in them being closed for differing periods of time. Our properties in Florida and Louisiana are particularly vulnerable to hurricanes, wind and storm surge. Our Pompano property was closed for four days in 2017 because of storms. In addition, severe weather such as high winds and blizzards occasionally limits access to our land-based facilities in Colorado and Reno. Inadequate insurance or lack of available insurance for these and other certain types or levels of risk could expose us to significant losses in the event that a catastrophe occurred for which we are underinsured. In addition to the damage caused to our properties by a casualty loss, we may suffer business disruption as a result of the casualty event or be subject to claims by third parties that may be injured or harmed. While we carry general liability insurance and business interruption insurance, there can be no assurance that insurance will be available or adequate to cover all loss and damage to which our business or our assets might be subjected. In addition, certain casualty events, such as labor strikes, nuclear events, loss of income due to terrorism, deterioration or corrosion, insect or animal damage and pollution, may not be covered under our policies. Any losses we incur that are not adequately covered by insurance may decrease our future operating income, require us to fund replacements or repairs for destroyed property and reduce the funds available for payments of our obligations. Further, we renew our insurance policies on an annual basis. The cost of coverage may become so high that we may need to further reduce our policy limits or agree to certain exclusions from coverage. Among other factors, it is possible that regional political tensions, homeland security concerns, other catastrophic events or any change in government legislation governing insurance coverage for acts of terrorism could materially adversely affect available insurance coverage and result in increased premiums on available coverage (which may cause us to elect to reduce our policy limits), additional exclusions from coverage or higher deductibles. Among other potential future adverse changes, in the future we may elect to not, or may not be able to, obtain any coverage for losses due to acts of terrorism.. We are subject to risks relating to mechanical failure, forces of nature, casualty, extraordinary maintenance and other causes. All of our facilities will generally be subject to the risk that operations could be halted for a temporary or extended period of time, as the result of casualty, forces of nature, mechanical failure, or extended or extraordinary maintenance, among other causes. In addition, our gaming operations could be damaged or halted due to extreme weather conditions. These risks are particularly pronounced at our riverboat and dockside facilities because of their locations on and adjacent to water.. We are or may become involved in legal proceedings that, if adversely adjudicated or settled, could impact our business and financial condition. From time to time, we are named in lawsuits or other legal proceedings relating to our respective businesses. In particular, the nature of our business subjects us to the risk of lawsuits filed by customers, past and present employees, competitors, business partners and others in the ordinary course of business. As with all legal proceedings, no assurances can be given as to the outcome of these matters. Moreover, legal proceedings can be expensive and time consuming, and we may not be successful in defending or prosecuting these lawsuits, which could result in settlements or damages that could significantly impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 15. Our information technology and other systems are subject to cyber security risk including misappropriation of customer information or other breaches of information security. We collect information relating to our guests and employees for various business purposes, including marketing and promotional purposes. The collection and use of personal data are governed by privacy laws and regulations enacted in the United States. We rely on information technology and other systems to maintain and transmit this personal and financial information, credit card settlements, credit card funds transmissions, mailing lists and reservations information. Our information and processes are subject to the ever-changing threat of compromised security, in the form of a risk of potential breach, system failure, computer virus, or unauthorized or fraudulent use by customers, company employees, or employees of third party vendors. The steps we take to deter and mitigate these risks may not be successful, and any resulting compromise or loss of data or systems could adversely impact, operations or regulatory compliance and could result in remedial expenses, fines, litigation, and loss of reputation, potentially impacting our financial results.. In addition, third party service providers and other business partners process and maintain proprietary business information and data related to our guests, suppliers and other business partners. Our information technology and other systems that maintain and transmit this information, or those of service providers or business partners, may also be compromised by a malicious third party penetration of our network security or that of a third party service provider or business partner, or impacted by intentional or unintentional actions or inactions by our employees or those of a third party service provider or business partner. As a result, our business information, guest, supplier, and other business partner data may be lost, disclosed, accessed or taken without their consent.. Any such loss, disclosure or misappropriation of, or access to, guests' or business partners' information or other breach of our information security can result in legal claims or legal proceedings, including regulatory investigations and actions, may have a serious impact on our reputation and may adversely affect our businesses, operating results and financial condition. Furthermore, the loss, disclosure or misappropriation of our business information may adversely affect our reputation, businesses, operating results and financial condition.. Our operations have historically been subject to seasonal variations and quarterly fluctuations in operating results, and we can expect to experience such variations and fluctuations in the future. Historically, our operations have typically been subject to seasonal variations. Our strongest operating results for our Reno properties have generally occurred in the second and third quarters and the weakest results have generally occurred during the period from November through February when weather conditions adversely affected operating results. Winter conditions can frequently adversely affect transportation routes to Reno, where a significant of our visitors arrive by ground transportation, and certain of our other properties and cause cancellations of live horse racing. For example, the Reno-Tahoe area experienced exceptionally high levels of snowfall in the first quarter of 2017, with certain resorts in the Tahoe area reporting over 50 feet of snowfall during such time, which adversely affected visitation to our Reno properties and adversely affected our results of operations for the first quarter. As a result, unfavorable seasonal conditions could have a material adverse effect on our operations.. The concentration and evolution of the slot machine manufacturing industry could impose additional costs on us. There are a limited number of slot machine manufacturers servicing the gaming industry and a large majority of our revenues are derived from slot machines at our casinos. It is important, for competitive reasons, that we offer the most popular and up-to-date slot machine games with the latest technology to customers.. In recent years, slot machine manufacturers have frequently refused to sell slot machines featuring the most popular games, instead requiring participating lease arrangements. Generally, a participating lease is substantially more expensive over the long-term than the cost to purchase a new slot machine.. For competitive reasons, we may be forced to acquire new slot machines, slot machine systems or gaming and hotel technology and equipment, or enter into participating lease arrangements, that are more expensive than our costs associated with the continued operation of our existing slot machines, equipment and software. If the newer slot machines, equipment or software do not result in sufficient incremental revenues to offset the increased investment, or if we are unable to successfully implement new software or technology, it could adversely affect our operations and profitability.. 16. We face risks associated with growth and acquisitions. As part of our business strategy, we regularly evaluate opportunities for growth through development of gaming operations in existing or new markets, through acquiring other gaming entertainment facilities or through redeveloping our existing gaming facilities. In the future, we may also pursue expansion opportunities, including joint ventures, in jurisdictions where casino gaming is not currently permitted in order to be prepared to develop projects upon approval of casino gaming.. Although we only intend to engage in acquisitions that, if consummated, will be accretive to us and our stockholders, we cannot be sure that we will be able to identify attractive acquisition opportunities or that we will experience the return on investment that we expect. In addition, acquisitions require significant management attention and resources to integrate new properties, businesses and operations. Potential difficulties we may encounter as part of the integration process include:. •  the inability to successfully incorporate acquired assets in a manner that permits us to achieve the full revenue and other benefits anticipated to result from the acquired operations;. •  complexities associated with managing the combined business, including difficulties addressing possible differences in cultures and management philosophies and the challenge of integrating complex systems, technology, networks and other assets of each of the companies in a seamless manner that minimizes any adverse impact on customers, suppliers, employees and other constituencies; and. •  potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses associated with acquired properties.. In addition, it is possible that the integration process could result in:. •  diversion of the attention of our management;. •  the disruption of, or the loss of momentum in, our ongoing businesses; and. •  inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies,. any of which could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, employees and other constituencies or our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits, or could reduce our earnings or otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results.. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify, acquire, develop or profitably manage additional companies or operations or successfully integrate such companies or operations, into our existing operations without substantial costs, delays or other problems. Additionally, there can be no assurance that we will receive gaming or other necessary licenses or approvals for new projects that we may pursue or that gaming will be approved in jurisdictions where it is not currently approved.. We may experience construction delays or cost overruns during our expansion or development projects that could adversely affect our operations. From time to time, we may commence construction projects on new properties or at our current properties. We also evaluate other expansion opportunities as they become available and may in the future engage in additional construction projects. The anticipated costs and construction periods for construction projects are based upon budgets, conceptual design documents and construction schedule estimates prepared by us in consultation with our architects. Construction projects entail significant risks, which can substantially increase costs or delay completion of a project. Such risks include shortages of materials or skilled labor, unforeseen engineering, environmental or geological problems, work stoppages, weather interference and unanticipated cost increases. Most of these factors are beyond our control. In addition, difficulties or delays in obtaining any of the requisite licenses, permits or authorizations from regulatory authorities can increase the cost or delay the completion of an expansion or development. Significant budget overruns or delays with respect to expansion and development projects could adversely affect our results of operations.. 17. Our planned capital expenditures may not result in our expected improvements in our business. We regularly expend capital to construct, maintain and renovate our properties to remain competitive, maintain the value and brand standards of our properties and comply with applicable laws and regulations. Our ability to realize the expected returns on our capital investments is dependent on a number of factors, including, general economic conditions; changes to construction plans and specifications; delays in obtaining or inability to obtain necessary permits, licenses and approvals; disputes with contractors; disruptions to our business caused by construction; and other unanticipated circumstances or cost increases.. While we believe that the overall budgets for our planned capital expenditures are reasonable, these costs are estimates and the actual costs may be higher than expected. In addition, we can provide no assurance that these investments will be sufficient or that we will realize our expected returns on our capital investments, or any returns at all. A failure to realize our expected returns on capital investments could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may incur impairments to goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets, or long-lived assets, which could negatively affect our operating results. As of December 31, 2017, we had $1.7 billion of goodwill and other intangible assets. We perform annual impairment testing for goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets as of October 1, or on an interim basis if indicators of impairment exist. For properties with goodwill and/or other intangible assets with indefinite lives, these tests could require the comparison of the implied fair value of each reporting unit to carrying value. During the fourth quarter of 2017, we recorded an impairment charge totaling $38.0 million to reduce the carrying value of goodwill and/or trade names related to our Lake Charles, Lula and Vicksburg reporting units.. We must make various assumptions and estimates in performing our impairment testing. The implied fair value includes estimates of future cash flows that are based on reasonable and supportable assumptions which represent our best estimates of the cash flows expected to result from the use of the assets including their eventual disposition and by a market approach based upon valuation multiples for similar companies. Changes in estimates, increases in our cost of capital, reductions in transaction multiples, operating and capital expenditure assumptions or application of alternative assumptions and definitions, could produce significantly different results.. We also evaluate long-lived assets for impairment if indicators of impairment exist. In assessing the recoverability of the carrying value of such property, equipment and other long-lived assets, we make assumptions regarding future cash flows and residual values.. Future cash flow estimates are, by their nature, subjective and actual results may differ materially from our estimates. If our ongoing estimates of future cash flows are not met, we may have to record additional impairment charges in future accounting periods. Our estimates of cash flows are based on the current regulatory, social and economic climates, recent operating information and budgets, and current operating plans of the various properties where we conduct operations. These estimates could be negatively impacted by changes in federal, state or local regulations, economic downturns, internal operating decisions, or other events affecting various forms of travel and access to our properties.. Risks Related to our Capital Structure and Equity Ownership. We have significant indebtedness. As of December 31, 2017, we and our restricted subsidiaries had $2.2 billion of total indebtedness outstanding consisting of $956.8 million outstanding under our term loan facility (the \"New Term Loan Facility\" or \"New Term Loan\"), $875.0 million in aggregate principal amount of outstanding 6.0% senior notes due 2025 (the \"6% Senior Notes\") and $375.0 million in aggregate principal amount of outstanding 7.0% senior notes due 2023 (the \"7% Senior Notes\"). As of December 31, 2017, we had no borrowings outstanding under our $300.0 million revolving credit facility (the \"New Revolving Credit Facility\" and, together with the New Term Loan, the \"New Credit Facility\"). This indebtedness may have important negative consequences for us, including:. •  limiting our ability to satisfy our obligations;. •  increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. 18. •  limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the markets in which we operate;. •  placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt;. •  increasing our vulnerability to, and limiting our ability to react to, changing market conditions, changes in our industry and economic downturns;. •  limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund working capital requirements, capital expenditures, debt service, acquisitions, general corporate or other obligations;. •  subjecting us to a number of restrictive covenants that, among other things, limit our ability to pay dividends and distributions, make acquisitions and dispositions, borrow additional funds, and make capital expenditures and other investments;. •  restricting our and our wholly-owned subsidiaries ability to make dividend payments and other payments;. •  limiting our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business because we must dedicate a significant portion of these funds to make principal and/or interest payments on our outstanding debt;. •  exposing us to interest rate risk due to the variable interest rate on borrowings under our New Credit Facility;. •  causing our failure to comply with the financial and restrictive covenants contained in our current or future indebtedness, which could cause a default under such indebtedness and which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on us; and. •  affecting our ability to renew gaming and other licenses necessary to conduct our business.. Despite our current indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may still incur significant additional indebtedness. Incurring more indebtedness could increase the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness, including additional secured indebtedness, in the future. As of December 31, 2017, we had $291.6 million of borrowing capacity, after consideration of $8.4 million in outstanding letters of credit, under our New Credit Facility. Our existing debt agreements currently permit, and we expect that agreements governing debt that we incur in the future will permit, us to incur certain other additional secured and unsecured debt. Further, we may incur other liabilities that do not constitute indebtedness. The risks that we face based on our outstanding indebtedness may intensify if we incur additional indebtedness in the future.. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. We cannot assure you that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness.. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. If our operating results and available cash are insufficient to meet our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds that we could realize from them, and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. Additionally, the agreements governing our existing debt limit the use of the proceeds from any disposition; as a result, we may not be allowed, under these documents, to use proceeds from such dispositions to satisfy all current debt service obligations.. 19. The agreements governing our debt impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities. The agreements governing our existing debt impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit our ability, among other things, to:. •  incur additional debt;. •  create liens or other encumbrances;. •  pay dividends or make other restricted payments;. •  agree to payment restrictions affecting our restricted subsidiaries;. •  prepay subordinated indebtedness;. •  make investments, loans or other guarantees;. •  sell or otherwise dispose of a portion of our assets; or. •  make acquisitions or merge or consolidate with another entity.. In addition, the credit agreement governing the New Credit Facility contains certain financial covenants, including minimum interest coverage ratio and maximum total leverage ratio covenants.. As a result of these covenants and restrictions, we are limited in how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. The restrictions caused by such covenants could also place us at a competitive disadvantage to less leveraged competitors.. A failure to comply with the covenants contained in the agreements governing our existing or future indebtedness could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of the indebtedness and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our indebtedness were to be accelerated, there can be no assurance that our assets would be sufficient to repay such indebtedness in full. Moreover, in the event that such indebtedness is accelerated, there can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance it on acceptable terms, or at all.. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly. The U.S. securities markets in general have experienced significant price fluctuations in recent years. The market price of our common stock may be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the trading volume of our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. Some of the factors that could cause fluctuations in, or have a material adverse effect on, the stock price or trading volume of our common stock include:. •  general market and economic conditions, including market conditions in the hotel and casino industries;. •  actual or expected variations in operating results;. •  differences between actual operating results and those expected by investors and analysts;. •  changes in recommendations by securities analysts;. •  operations and stock performance of competitors;. •  accounting charges, including charges relating to the impairment of goodwill;. •  significant acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or by competitors;. •  sales of our common stock or other securities in the future, including sales by our directors and officers or significant investors;. •  recruitment or departure of key personnel;. •  conditions and trends in the gaming and entertainment industries;. •  changes in the estimate of the future size and growth of our markets; and. •  changes in reserves for professional liability claims.. 20. We cannot assure you that the stock price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. In addition, the stock market in general can experience considerable price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated to our performance. If the market price of our common stock fluctuates significantly, we may become the subject of securities class action litigation which may result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources.. We have not historically paid dividends and may not pay dividends in the future. We do not currently expect to pay dividends on its common stock. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon among other factors, our earnings, cash requirements, financial condition, requirements to comply with the covenants under its debt instruments, legal considerations, and other factors that our board of directors deems relevant. In addition, the agreements governing our indebtedness restrict its ability to pay dividends. If we do not pay dividends, then the return on an investment in its common stock will depend entirely upon any future appreciation in its stock price. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or maintain its value."
