[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risks and all other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes, before investing in our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below supplement, or to the extent inconsistent, supersede those disclosed in our Registration Statement. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face, but include the most significant factors currently known by us that make investing in our securities speculative or risky. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently believe are not material, also may become important factors that affect us. If any of the following risks materialize, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose some or all of your investment.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY. We have a limited operating history in an evolving industry, which makes it difficult to accurately assess our future growth prospects.. We were incorporated as a wholly owned subsidiary of TFI in January 2014 and became a stand-alone company in May 2014 following the spin-off and, as such, have a three year history as a stand-alone company. Although our management team has many years of experience in the non-prime lending industry, we operate in an evolving industry that may not develop as expected. Assessing the future prospects of our business is challenging in light of both known and unknown risks and difficulties we may encounter. Growth prospects in non-prime lending can be affected by a wide variety of factors including:. • Competition from other online and traditional lenders;. • Regulatory limitations that impact the non-prime lending products we can offer and the markets we can serve;. • An evolving regulatory and legislative landscape;. • Access to important marketing channels such as:. <U+25E6> Direct mail;. <U+25E6> TV and mass media;. <U+25E6> Search engine marketing; and. <U+25E6> Strategic partnerships with affiliates;. • Changes in consumer behavior;. • Access to adequate financing;. • Increasingly sophisticated fraudulent borrowing and online theft;. • Challenges with new products and new markets;. • Dependence on our proprietary technology infrastructure and security systems;. • Dependence on our personnel and certain third parties with whom we do business;. • Risk to our business if our systems are hacked or otherwise compromised;. • Evolving industry standards;. • Recruiting and retention of qualified personnel necessary to operate our business; and. • Fluctuations in the credit markets and demand for credit.. We may not be able to successfully address these factors, which could negatively impact our growth, harm our business and cause our operating results to be worse than expected.. 35. Our recent growth rate may not be indicative of our ability to continue to grow, if at all, in the future.. Our revenues grew to $673.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 from $580.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2016. However, our revenue growth rate has fluctuated over the past few years and it is possible that, in the future, even if our revenues continue to increase, our rate of revenue growth could decline, either because of external factors affecting the growth of our business or because we are not able to scale effectively as we grow. If we cannot manage our growth effectively, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. We have a history of losses and may not maintain or achieve consistent profitability in the future.. We incurred net losses of $6.9 million, $22.4 million and $19.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. As of December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of $80.0 million. We will need to generate and sustain increased revenues in future periods in order to become and remain profitable, and, even if we do, we may not be able to maintain or increase our level of profitability.. As we grow, we expect to continue to expend substantial financial and other resources on:. • personnel, including significant increases to the total compensation we pay our employees as we grow our employee headcount;. • marketing, including expenses relating to increased direct marketing efforts;. • product development, including the continued development of our proprietary scoring methodology;. • diversification of our funding sources;. • office space, as we increase the space we need for our growing employee base; and. • general administration, including legal, accounting and other compliance expenses related to being a public company.. These expenditures are expected to increase and may adversely affect our ability to achieve and sustain profitability as we grow. In addition, we record our provision for loan losses as an expense to account for the possibility that some loans may not be repaid in full. We expect the aggregate amount of loan loss provision to grow as we increase the number and total amount of loans we make to new customers.. Our efforts to grow our business may be more costly than we expect, and we may not be able to increase our revenues enough to offset our higher operating expenses. We may incur losses in the future for a number of reasons, including the other risks described in this \"Risk Factors\" section, unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications and delays and other unknown events. If we are unable to achieve and sustain profitability, the market price of our common stock may significantly decrease.. Our historical information does not necessarily represent the results we would have achieved as a stand-alone company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results.. We have a limited operating history as a stand-alone company. See \" - We have a limited operating history in an evolving industry, which makes it difficult to accurately assess our future growth prospects\" above. As a result of the spin-off, TFI contributed the assets and liabilities associated with its direct lending and branded products business to us. The historical financial information prior to the spin-off may not reflect what our results of operations, financial position and cash flows would have been had we been a stand-alone company during such prior periods. This is primarily because:. • our historical financial information reflects allocations for services historically provided to us by TFI, which allocations may not reflect the costs we will incur for similar services in the future as a stand-alone company; and. • our historical financial information does not reflect reduced economies of scale, including changes in the cost structure, personnel needs, financing and operations of our business.. We are also responsible for the additional costs associated with being a public company, including costs related to corporate governance and having listed and registered securities. Therefore, our historical financial information may not be indicative of our future performance as a stand-alone public company.. 36. The consumer lending industry continues to be subjected to new laws and regulations in many jurisdictions that could restrict the consumer lending products and services we offer, impose additional compliance costs on us, render our current operations unprofitable or even prohibit our current operations.. Both state and federal governments in the US and regulatory bodies in the UK may seek to impose new laws, regulatory restrictions or licensing requirements that affect the products or services we offer, the terms on which we may offer them, and the disclosure, compliance and reporting obligations we must fulfill in connection with our lending business. They may also interpret or enforce existing requirements in new ways that could restrict our ability to continue our current methods of operation or to expand operations, impose significant additional compliance costs and may have a negative effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. In some cases these measures could even directly prohibit some or all of our current business activities in certain jurisdictions, or render them unprofitable or impractical to continue.. In recent years, consumer loans, and in particular the category commonly referred to as \"payday loans,\" have come under increased regulatory scrutiny that has resulted in increasingly restrictive regulations and legislation that makes offering consumer loans in certain states in the US or the UK less profitable or unattractive. On October 5, 2017 the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the \"CFPB\") finalized its rule covering loans that require consumers to repay all or most of the debt at once, including payday loans, auto title loans, deposit advance products, longer-term loans with balloon payments and any loan with an annual percentage rate over 36 percent that includes authorization for the lender to access the borrower's checking or prepaid account. The Rule became effective on January 16, 2018, but subsequently, on the same day, the CFPB announced that it \"intends to engage in a rulemaking process so that the Bureau may reconsider\" the final rule. See \" - The CFPB issued final rules affecting the consumer lending industry, and these or subsequent new rules and regulations, if they are finalized, may impact our US consumer lending business\" below for more information.. We also expect that further new laws and regulations will be promulgated in the UK that could impact our business operations. See \" - The UK has imposed, and continues to impose, increased regulation of the high-cost short-term credit industry with the stated expectation that some firms will exit the market\" below for additional information.. In order to serve our non-prime customers profitably we need to sufficiently price the risk of the transaction into the annual percentage rate (\"APR\") of our loans. If individual states or the US federal government or regulators in the UK impose rate caps lower than those at which we can operate our current business profitably or otherwise impose stricter limits on non-prime lending, we would need to exit such states or dramatically reduce our rate of growth by limiting our products to customers with higher creditworthiness.. Furthermore, legislative or regulatory actions may be influenced by negative perceptions of us and our industry, even if such negative perceptions are inaccurate, attributable to conduct by third parties not affiliated with us (such as other industry members) or attributable to matters not specific to our industry.. Any of these or other legislative or regulatory actions that affect our consumer loan business at the national, state, international and local level could, if enacted or interpreted differently, have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows and prohibit or directly or indirectly impair our ability to continue current operations.. Regulators and payment processors are scrutinizing certain online lenders' access to the Automated Clearing House system to disburse and collect loan proceeds and repayments, and any interruption or limitation on our ability to access this critical system would materially adversely affect our business.. When making loans in the US, we typically use the Automated Clearing House (\"ACH\") system to deposit loan proceeds into our customers' bank accounts. This includes loans that we originate as well as Elastic loans originated by Republic Bank & Trust Company (\"Republic Bank\") and Rise loans made through the credit services organization (\"CSO\") programs. These products also depend on the ACH system to collect amounts due by withdrawing funds from customers' bank accounts when the customer has provided authorization to do so. ACH transactions are processed by banks, and if these banks cease to provide ACH processing services or are not allowed to do so, we would have to materially alter, or possibly discontinue, some or all of our business if alternative ACH processors or other payment mechanisms are not available.. It has been reported that actions, referred to as Operation Choke Point, by the US Department of Justice (the \"Justice Department\") the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the \"FDIC\") and certain state regulators appear to be intended to discourage banks and ACH payment processors from providing access to the ACH system for certain lenders that they believe are operating illegally, cutting off their access to the ACH system to either debit or credit customer accounts (or both).. 37. In the past, this heightened regulatory scrutiny by the Justice Department, the FDIC and other regulators has caused some banks and ACH payment processors to cease doing business with consumer lenders who are operating legally, without regard to whether those lenders are complying with applicable laws, simply to avoid the risk of heightened scrutiny or even litigation. These actions have reduced the number of banks and payment processors who provide ACH payment processing services and could conceivably make it increasingly difficult to find banking partners and payment processors in the future and/or lead to significantly increased costs for these services. If we are unable to maintain access to needed services on favorable terms, we would have to materially alter, or possibly discontinue, some or all of our business if alternative processors are not available.  In response to Operation Choke Point, H.R. 2706 was introduced in the House to halt future similar actions. The bill passed out of the House on December 11, 2017 and is now pending in the Senate. It is unknown if the legislation will progress further at this time. Further, in August 2017, the Justice Department sent a letter to House Judiciary Chairman Bob Goodlatte referring to Operation Chokepoint as \"a misguided initiative.\". If we lost access to the ACH system because our payment processor was unable or unwilling to access the ACH system on our behalf we would experience a significant reduction in customer loan payments. Although we would notify consumers that they would need to make their loan payments via physical check, debit card or other method of payment a large number of customers would likely go into default because they are expecting automated payment processing. Similarly, if regulatory changes limited our access to the ACH system or reduced the number of times ACH transactions could be re-presented, we would experience higher losses.. If the information provided by customers or other third parties to us is incomplete, incorrect or fraudulent, we may misjudge a customer's qualification to receive a loan, and any inability to effectively identify, manage, monitor and mitigate fraud risk on a large scale could cause us to incur substantial losses, and our operating results, brand and reputation could be harmed.. For the loans we originate through Rise and Sunny, our growth is largely predicated on effective loan underwriting resulting in acceptable customer profitability. This is equally important for the Rise loans in Texas and Ohio and the Elastic lines of credit originated by unaffiliated third parties. See \"Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - Components of Our Results of Operations - Revenues.\" Lending decisions by such originating lenders are made using our proprietary credit and fraud scoring models, which we license to them. Lending decisions are based partly on information provided by loan applicants and partly on information provided by consumer reporting agencies, such as TransUnion, Experian or Equifax and other third-party data providers. Data provided by third-party sources is a significant component of the decision methodology, and this data may contain inaccuracies. To the extent that applicants provide inaccurate or unverifiable information or data from third-party providers is incomplete or inaccurate, the credit score delivered by our proprietary scoring methodology may not accurately reflect the associated risk. Additionally, a credit score assigned to a borrower may not reflect that borrower's actual creditworthiness because the credit score may be based on outdated, incomplete or inaccurate consumer reporting data , and we do not verify the information obtained from the borrower's credit report. Additionally, there is a risk that, following the date of the credit report that we obtain and review, a borrower may have:. • become past due in the payment of an outstanding obligation;. • defaulted on a pre-existing debt obligation;. • taken on additional debt; or. • sustained other adverse financial events.. Our resources, technologies and fraud prevention tools, which are used to originate loans or lines of credit, as applicable, under Rise, Sunny and Elastic, may be insufficient to accurately detect and prevent fraud. Inaccurate analysis of credit data that could result from false loan application information could harm our reputation, business and operating results.. In addition, our proprietary credit and fraud scoring models use identity and fraud checks analyzing data provided by external databases to authenticate each customer's identity. The level of our fraud charge-offs and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if fraudulent activity were to significantly increase. Online lenders are particularly subject to fraud because of the lack of face-to-face interactions and document review. If applicants assume false identities to defraud the Company or consumers simply have no intent to repay the money they have borrowed the related portfolio of loans will exhibit higher loan losses. We have in the past and may in the future incur substantial losses and our business operations could be disrupted if we or the originating lenders are unable to effectively identify, manage, monitor and mitigate fraud risk using our proprietary credit and fraud scoring models.. 38. Since fraud is often perpetrated by increasingly sophisticated individuals and \"rings\" of criminals, it is important for us to continue to update and improve the fraud detection and prevention capabilities of our proprietary credit and fraud scoring models. If these efforts are unsuccessful then credit quality and customer profitability will erode. If credit and/or fraud losses increased significantly due to inadequacies in underwriting or new fraud trends, new customer originations may need to be reduced until credit and fraud losses returned to target levels, and business could contract.. It may be difficult or impossible to recoup funds underlying loans made in connection with inaccurate statements, omissions of fact or fraud. Loan losses are currently the largest cost as a percentage of revenues across each of Rise, Sunny and Elastic. If credit or fraud losses were to rise, this would significantly reduce our profitability. High profile fraudulent activity could also lead to regulatory intervention, negatively impact our operating results, brand and reputation and require us, and the originating lenders, to take steps to reduce fraud risk, which could increase our costs.. Any of the above risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. Because of the non-prime nature of our customers, we have historically experienced a high rate of net charge-offs as a percentage of revenues, and our ability to price appropriately in response to this and other factors is essential. We rely on our proprietary credit and fraud scoring models in the forecasting of loss rates. If we are unable to effectively forecast loss rates, it may negatively impact our operating results.. Our net charge-offs as a percentage of revenues for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 were 52% for both years. Because of the non-prime nature of our customers, it is essential that our products are appropriately priced, taking this and all other relevant factors into account. In making a decision whether to extend credit to prospective customers, and the terms on which we or the originating lenders are willing to provide credit, including the price, we and the originating lenders rely heavily on our proprietary credit and fraud scoring models, which comprise an empirically derived suite of statistical models built using third-party data, data from customers and our credit experience gained through monitoring the performance of customers over time. Our proprietary credit and fraud scoring models are based on previous historical experience. Typically, however, our models will become less effective over time and need to be rebuilt regularly to perform optimally. This is particularly true in the context of our preapproved direct mail campaigns. If we are unable to rebuild our proprietary credit and fraud scoring models, or if they do not perform up to target standards the products will experience increasing defaults or higher customer acquisition costs.. If our proprietary credit and fraud scoring models fail to adequately predict the creditworthiness of customers, or if they fail to assess prospective customers' financial ability to repay their loans, or any or all of the other components of the credit decision process described herein fails, higher than forecasted losses may result. Furthermore, if we are unable to access the third-party data used in our proprietary credit and fraud scoring models, or access to such data is limited, the ability to accurately evaluate potential customers using our proprietary credit and fraud scoring models will be compromised. As a result, we may be unable to effectively predict probable credit losses inherent in the resulting loan portfolio, and we, and the originating lender, may consequently experience higher defaults or customer acquisition costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. Additionally, if we make errors in the development and validation of any of the models or tools used to underwrite loans, such loans may result in higher delinquencies and losses. Moreover, if future performance of customer loans differs from past experience, which experience has informed the development of our proprietary credit and fraud scoring models, delinquency rates and losses could increase.. If our proprietary credit and fraud scoring models were unable to effectively price credit to the risk of the customer, lower margins would result. Either our losses would be higher than anticipated due to \"underpricing\" products or customers may refuse to accept the loan if products are perceived as \"overpriced.\" Additionally, an inability to effectively forecast loss rates could also inhibit our ability to borrow from our debt facilities, which could further hinder our growth and have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. 39. We depend in part on debt financing to finance most of the loans we originate. Our business could be adversely affected by a lack of sufficient debt financing at acceptable prices or disruptions in the credit markets, which could reduce our access to credit.. We depend in part on debt financing to support the growth of our originated portfolios, Rise and Sunny. However, we cannot guarantee that financing will continue to be available beyond the current maturity date of our debt facilities, on reasonable terms or at all. Presently our debt financing for Rise and Sunny primarily comes from a single source, Victory Park Management, LLC (\"VPC\"), an affiliate of Victory Park Capital. Although our reliance on debt financing has decreased due to an increase in the Company's cash flow and the addition of three new lenders to the VPC Facility, if VPC became unwilling or unable to provide debt financing to us at prices acceptable to us we would need to secure additional debt financing or potentially reduce loan originations. Furthermore, as the volume of loans that we make to customers increases, we may require the expansion of our borrowing capacity on our existing debt facilities or the addition of new sources of capital. The availability of these financing sources depends on many factors, some of which are outside of our control.. We may also experience the occurrence of events of default or breaches of financial or performance covenants under our debt agreements, which are currently secured by all our assets. Any such occurrence or breach could result in the reduction or termination of our access to institutional funding or increase our cost of funding. Certain of these covenants are tied to our customer default rates, which may be significantly affected by factors, such as economic downturns or general economic conditions beyond our control and beyond the control of individual customers. In particular, loss rates on customer loans may increase due to factors such as prevailing interest rates, the rate of unemployment, the level of consumer and business confidence, commercial real estate values, the value of the US dollar, energy prices, changes in consumer and business spending, the number of personal bankruptcies, disruptions in the credit markets and other factors. Increases in the cost of capital would reduce our net profit margins.. Similarly, the loan portfolio for Elastic, which is originated by a third-party lender, gets funding as a result of the purchase of a participation interest in the loans it originates from Elastic SPV, Ltd. (\"Elastic SPV\"), a Cayman Islands entity that purchases such participations. Elastic SPV has a loan facility with VPC for its funding, for which we provide credit support, and we have entered into a credit default protection agreement with Elastic SPV that provides protection for loan losses. Although we plan to diversify our funding sources, any voluntary or involuntary halt to this existing program could result in the originating lender halting further loan originations until an additional financing partner could be identified.. In the event of a sudden or unexpected shortage of funds in the banking system, we cannot be sure that we will be able to maintain necessary levels of funding without incurring high funding costs, a reduction in the term of funding instruments or the liquidation of certain assets. If our cost of borrowing goes up, our net interest expense could increase, and if we were to be unable to arrange new or alternative methods of financing on favorable terms, we may have to curtail our origination of loans or recommend that the originating lenders curtail their origination of credit, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. The interest rates we charge to our customers and pay to our lenders could each be affected by a variety of factors, including access to capital based on our business performance and the volume of loans we make to our customers. These interest rates may also be affected by a change over time in the mix of the types of products we sell to our customers and a shift among our channels of customer acquisition. Our VPC funding facilities are variable rate in nature and tied to the 3-month LIBOR rate. Thus, any increase in the 3-month LIBOR rate will result in an increase in our net interest expense. The Company has entered into interest rate cap transactions on January 11, 2018 to mitigate the floating rate interest risk on a portion of the currently outstanding debt. Interest rate changes may also adversely affect our business forecasts and expectations and are highly sensitive to many macroeconomic factors beyond our control, such as inflation, recession, the state of the credit markets, changes in market interest rates, global economic disruptions, unemployment and the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies. Regulatory or legislative changes may reduce our ability to charge our current rates in all states and products. Also, competitive threats may cause us to reduce our rates. This would reduce profit margins unless there was a commensurate reduction in losses. Any material reduction in our interest rate spread could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. In the event that the spread between the rate at which we lend to our customers and the rate at which we borrow from our lenders decreases, our financial results and operating performance will be harmed.. In the future, we may seek to access the debt capital markets to obtain capital to finance growth. However, our future access to the debt capital markets could be restricted due to a variety of factors, including a deterioration of our earnings, cash flows, balance sheet quality, or overall business or industry prospects, adverse regulatory changes, a disruption to or deterioration in the state of the capital markets or a negative bias toward our industry by market participants. Disruptions and volatility in the capital markets could also cause banks and other credit providers to restrict availability of new credit. Due to the negative bias. 40. toward our industry, commercial banks and other lenders have restricted access to available credit to participants in our industry, and we may have more limited access to commercial bank lending than other businesses. Our ability to obtain additional financing in the future will depend in part upon prevailing capital market conditions, and a potential disruption in the capital markets may adversely affect our efforts to arrange additional financing on terms that are satisfactory to us, if at all. If adequate funds are not available, or are not available on acceptable terms, we may not have sufficient liquidity to fund our operations, make future investments, take advantage of acquisitions or other opportunities, or respond to competitive challenges and this, in turn, could adversely affect our ability to advance our strategic plans. Additionally, if the capital and credit markets experience volatility, and the availability of funds is limited, third parties with whom we do business may incur increased costs or business disruption and this could adversely affect our business relationships with such third parties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. Any decrease in our access to preapproved marketing lists from credit bureaus or other developments impacting our use of direct mail marketing could adversely affect our ability to grow our business.. We market Rise and Sunny and provide marketing services to the originating lender in connection with Elastic. Direct mailings of preapproved loan offers to potential loan customers comprise one of the most important marketing channels for both the loans we originate, as well as those originated by third-party lenders. We estimate that approximately 44% and 99% of new Rise and Elastic loan customers, respectively, in the year ended December 31, 2017 obtained loans as a result of receiving such preapproved loan offers. Our marketing techniques identify candidates for preapproved loan mailings in part through the use of preapproved marketing lists purchased from credit bureaus. If access to such preapproved marketing lists were lost or limited due to regulatory changes prohibiting credit bureaus from sharing such information or for other reasons, our growth could be significantly adversely affected. If the cost of obtaining such lists increases significantly, it could substantially increase customer acquisition costs and decrease profitability.. Similarly, federal or state regulators or legislators could limit access to these preapproved marketing lists with the same effect.. In addition, preapproved direct mailings may become a less effective marketing tool due to over-penetration of direct mailing-lists. Any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. We rely in part on relationships with marketing affiliates to identify potential customers for our loans. These relationships are generally non-exclusive and subject to termination, and the growth of our customer base could be adversely affected if any of our marketing affiliate relationships are terminated or the number of referrals we receive from marketing affiliates is reduced.. We rely on strategic marketing affiliate relationships with certain companies for referrals of some of the customers to whom we issue loans, and our growth depends in part on the growth of these referrals. In the year ended December 31, 2017, loans issued to Rise customers referred to us by our strategic partners constituted 21% of total Rise new customer loans. Additionally, in the same period, loans issued to Sunny customers through strategic partners constituted 27% of total Sunny new customer loans. Many of our marketing affiliate relationships do not contain exclusivity provisions that would prevent such marketing affiliates from providing customer referrals to competing companies. In addition, the agreements governing these partnerships, generally, contain termination provisions, including provisions that in certain circumstances would allow our partners to terminate if convenient, that, if exercised, would terminate our relationship with these partners. These agreements also contain no requirement that a marketing affiliate refer us any minimum number of customers. There can be no assurance that these marketing affiliates will not terminate our relationship with them or continue referring business to us in the future, and a termination of any of these relationships or reduction in customer referrals to us could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. 41. Our success and future growth depend significantly on our successful marketing efforts, and if such efforts are not successful, our business and financial results may be harmed.. We intend to continue to dedicate significant resources to marketing efforts, including for the Elastic product, particularly as we continue to grow, introduce new loan products and expand into new states. Our ability to attract qualified borrowers depends in large part on the success of these marketing efforts and the success of the marketing channels we use to promote our products. Our marketing channels include social media and the press, online affiliations, search engine optimization, search engine marketing, offline partnerships, preapproved direct mailings and television advertising. If any of our current marketing channels become less effective, if we are unable to continue to use any of these channels, if the cost of using these channels were to significantly increase or if we are not successful in generating new channels, we may not be able to attract new borrowers in a cost-effective manner or convert potential borrowers into active borrowers. If we are unable to recover our marketing costs through increases in website traffic and in the number of loans made by visitors to product websites, or if we discontinue our broad marketing campaigns, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. We are dependent on third parties to support several key aspects of our business, and the failure of such parties to continue to provide services to us in the current manner and at the current rates would adversely affect our revenues and results of operations.. The Elastic line of credit product, which is originated by a third-party lender and contributed approximately 29% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017, and the portions of the Rise installment loan product that we offer through CSO programs, which contributed approximately 9% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017, depend in part on the willingness and ability of unaffiliated third-party lenders to make loans to customers. Additionally, as described above, our business, including our Elastic loans and Rise loans made through the CSO programs, depends on the ACH system, and ACH transactions are processed by third-party banks. See \" - Regulators and payment processors are scrutinizing certain online lenders' access to the Automated Clearing House system to disburse and collect loan proceeds and repayments, and any interruption or limitation on our ability to access this critical system would materially adversely affect our business.\" We also utilize many other third parties to provide services to facilitate lending, loan underwriting, payment processing, customer service, collections and recoveries, as well as to support and maintain certain of our communication systems and information systems, and we may need to expand our relationships with third parties, or develop relationships with new third parties, to support any new product offerings that we may pursue.. The loss of the relationship with any of these third-party lenders and service providers, an inability to replace them or develop new relationships, or the failure of any of these third parties to provide its products or services, to maintain its quality and consistency or to have the ability to provide its products and services, could disrupt our operations, cause us to terminate product offerings or delay or discontinue new product offerings, result in lost customers and substantially decrease the revenues and earnings of our business. Our revenues and earnings could also be adversely affected if any of those third-party providers make material changes to the products or services that we rely on or increase the price of their products or services.. Elevate uses third parties for the majority of its collections and recovery activities. If those parties were unable or unwilling to provide those services for Elevate products we would experience higher defaults until those functions could be outsourced to an alternative service provider or until we could bring those functions in-house and adequately staff and train internally.. Any of these events could result in a loss of revenues and could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. The profitability of the line of credit product, Elastic, could be adversely affected by policy or pricing decisions made by the originating lender.. We do not originate and do not ultimately control the pricing or functionality of Elastic, the line of credit product. Instead, Republic Bank, which originates the loans, has licensed our technology and underwriting services and makes all key decisions regarding Elastic marketing, underwriting, product features and pricing. We generate revenues from the Elastic product through marketing and technology licensing fees paid by Republic Bank, and through a credit default protection agreement we entered into with Elastic SPV, which purchases participations in Elastic loans from Republic Bank. If Republic Bank changes its pricing, underwriting or marketing of Elastic in a way that decreases revenues or increases losses, then the profitability of each loan could be reduced. Although this would not reduce the revenues that we receive for marketing and technology licensing services, it would reduce the revenues that we receive from our credit default protection agreement with Elastic SPV.. Any of the above changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. 42. Our ability to continue to provide Elastic would be adversely affected by a degradation in our relationship with Republic Bank.. The structure of the Elastic product exposes us to risks associated with being reliant on Republic Bank as the originating lender. If our relationship with Republic Bank were to degrade, or if Republic Bank were to terminate the various agreements associated with the Elastic product, we may not be able to find another suitable originating lender and new arrangements, if any, may result in significantly increased costs to us. Because line of credit products are relatively more difficult to establish under state law, any inability to find another originating lender would adversely affect our ability to continue to provide Elastic, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. Decreased demand for non-prime loans as a result of increased savings or income could result in a loss of revenues or decline in profitability if we are unable to successfully adapt to such changes.. The demand for non-prime loan products in the markets we serve could decline due to a variety of factors, such as regulatory restrictions that reduce customer access to particular products, the availability of competing or alternative products or changes in customers' financial conditions, particularly increases in income or savings. For instance, an increase in state or federal minimum wage requirements, or a decrease in individual income tax rates, could decrease demand for non-prime loans. Additionally, a change in focus from borrowing to saving (such as has happened in some countries) would reduce demand. Should we fail to adapt to a significant change in our customers' demand for, or access to, our products, our revenues could decrease significantly. Even if we make adaptations or introduce new products to fulfill customer demand, customers may resist or may reject products whose adaptations make them less attractive or less available. Such decreased demand could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. A decline in economic conditions could result in decreased demand for our loans or cause our customers' default rates to increase, harming our operating results.. Uncertainty and negative trends in general economic conditions in the US and abroad, including significant tightening of credit markets and a general decline in the value of real property, historically have created a difficult environment for companies in the lending industry. Many factors, including factors that are beyond our control, may impact our consolidated results of operations or financial condition or affect our borrowers' willingness or capacity to make payments on their loans. These factors include: unemployment levels, housing markets, rising living expenses, energy costs and interest rates, as well as major medical expenses, divorce or death that affect our borrowers. If the US or UK economies experience a downturn, or if we become affected by other events beyond our control, we may experience a significant reduction in revenues, earnings and cash flows, difficulties accessing capital and a deterioration in the value of our investments.. Credit quality is driven by the ability and willingness of customers to make their loan payments. If customers face rising unemployment or reduced wages, defaults may increase. Similarly, if customers experience rising living expenses (for instance due to rising gas, energy, or food costs) they may be unable to make loan payments. An economic slowdown could also result in a decreased number of loans being made to customers due to higher unemployment or an increase in loan defaults in our loan products. The underwriting standards used for our products may need to be tightened in response to such conditions, which could reduce loan balances, and collecting defaulted loans could become more difficult, which could lead to an increase in loan losses. If a customer defaults on a loan, the loan enters a collections process where, including as a result of contractual agreements with the originating lenders, our systems and collections teams initiate contact with the customer for payments owed. If a loan is subsequently charged off, the loan is generally sold to a third party collection agency and the resulting proceeds from such sales comprise only a small fraction of the remaining amount payable on the loan.. There can be no assurance that economic conditions will remain favorable for our business or that demand for loans or default rates by customers will remain at current levels. Reduced demand for loans would negatively impact our growth and revenues, while increased default rates by customers may inhibit our access to capital, hinder the growth of the loan portfolio attributable to our products and negatively impact our profitability. Either such result could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. 43. We are operating in a highly competitive environment and face increasing competition from a variety of traditional and new lending institutions, including other online lending companies. This competition could adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. We have many competitors. Our principal competitors are consumer loan companies, CSOs, online lenders, credit card companies, consumer finance companies, pawnshops and other financial institutions that offer similar financial services. Other financial institutions or other businesses that do not now offer products or services directed toward our traditional customer base could begin doing so. Significant increases in the number and size of competitors for our business could result in a decrease in the number of loans that we fund, resulting in lower levels of revenues and earnings in these categories. Many of these competitors are larger than us, have significantly more resources and greater brand recognition than we do, and may be able to attract customers more effectively than we do.. Competitors of our business may operate, or begin to operate, under business models less focused on legal and regulatory compliance, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. Additionally, negative perceptions about these models could cause legislators or regulators to pursue additional industry restrictions that could affect the business model under which we operate. To the extent that these models gain acceptance among consumers, small businesses and investors or face less onerous regulatory restrictions than we do, we may be unable to replicate their business practices or otherwise compete with them effectively, which could cause demand for the products we currently offer to decline substantially.. When new competitors seek to enter one of our markets, or when existing market participants seek to increase their market share, they sometimes undercut the pricing and/or credit terms prevalent in that market, which could adversely affect our market share or ability to exploit new market opportunities. Elevate products compete at least partly based on rate comparison with other credit products used by non-prime consumers. However, non-prime consumers by definition have a higher propensity for default and as a result need to be charged higher rates of interest to generate adequate profit margins. If existing competitors significantly reduced their rates or lower-priced competitors enter the market and offer credit to customers at a lower rates, the pricing and credit terms we or the originating lenders offer could deteriorate if we or the originating lenders act to meet these competitive challenges. Any such action may result in lower customer acquisition volumes and higher costs per new customer.. We may be unable to compete successfully against any or all of our current or future competitors. As a result, our products could lose market share and our revenues could decline, thereby affecting our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to service our indebtedness and fund our operations. Any such changes in our competition could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. Customer complaints or negative public perception of our business could result in a decline in our customer growth and our business could suffer.. Our reputation is very important to attracting new customers to our platform as well as securing repeat lending to existing customers. While we believe that we have a good reputation and that we provide customers with a superior experience, there can be no assurance that we will continue to maintain a good relationship with customers or avoid negative publicity.. In recent years, consumer advocacy groups and some media reports have advocated governmental action to prohibit or place severe restrictions on non-bank consumer loans. Such consumer advocacy groups and media reports generally focus on the annual percentage rate for this type of consumer loan, which is compared unfavorably to the interest typically charged by banks to consumers with top-tier credit histories. The finance charges assessed by us, the originating lenders and others in the industry can attract media publicity about the industry and be perceived as controversial. If the negative characterization of the types of loans we offer, including those originated through third-party lenders, becomes increasingly accepted by consumers, demand for any or all of our consumer loan products could significantly decrease, which could materially affect our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Additionally, if the negative characterization of these types of loans is accepted by legislators and regulators, we could become subject to more restrictive laws and regulations applicable to consumer loan products that could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. In addition, our ability to attract and retain customers is highly dependent upon the external perceptions of our level of service, trustworthiness, business practices, financial condition and other subjective qualities. Negative perceptions or publicity regarding these matters - even if related to seemingly isolated incidents, or even if related to practices not specific to short-term loans, such as debt collection - could erode trust and confidence and damage our reputation among existing and potential customers, which would make it difficult to attract new customers and retain existing customers, significantly decrease the demand for our products, result in increased regulatory scrutiny, and have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. 44. Our business depends on the uninterrupted operation of our systems and business functions, including our information technology and other business systems, as well as the ability of such systems to support compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements.. Our business is highly dependent upon customers' ability to access our website and the ability of our employees and those of the originating lenders, as well as third-party service providers, to perform, in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, necessary business functions, such as internet support, call center activities and processing and servicing of loans. Problems with the IQ technology platform running our systems, or a shut-down of or inability to access the facilities in which our internet operations and other technology infrastructure are based, such as a power outage, a failure of one or more of our information technology, telecommunications or other systems, cyber-attacks on, or sustained or repeated disruptions of, such systems could significantly impair our ability to perform such functions on a timely basis and could result in a deterioration of our ability to underwrite, approve and process loans (or support such functions with regard to Elastic lines of credit), provide customer service, perform collections activities, or perform other necessary business functions. Any such interruption could reduce new customer acquisition and negatively impact growth, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. In addition, our systems and those of third parties on whom we rely must consistently be capable of compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements and timely modification to comply with new or amended requirements. Any systems problems going forward could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. We are subject to cybersecurity risks and security breaches and may incur increasing costs in an effort to minimize those risks and to respond to cyber incidents, and we may experience harm to our reputation and liability exposure from security breaches.. Our business involves the storage and transmission of consumers' proprietary information, and security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, litigation and potential liability. We are entirely dependent on the secure operation of our websites and systems as well as the operation of the internet generally. While we have incurred no material cyber-attacks or security breaches to date, a number of other companies have disclosed cyber-attacks and security breaches, some of which have involved intentional attacks. Attacks may be targeted at us, our customers, or both. Although we devote significant resources to maintain and regularly upgrade our systems and processes that are designed to protect the security of our computer systems, software, networks and other technology assets and the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information belonging to us and our customers, our security measures may not provide absolute security. Despite our efforts to ensure the integrity of our systems, it is possible that we may not be able to anticipate or to implement effective preventive measures against all security breaches of these types, especially because the techniques used change frequently or are not recognized until launched, and because cyber-attacks can originate from a wide variety of sources, including third parties outside the Company such as persons who are involved with organized crime or associated with external service providers or who may be linked to terrorist organizations or hostile foreign governments. These risks may increase in the future as we continue to increase our mobile and other internet-based product offerings and expand our internal usage of web-based products and applications or expand into new countries. If an actual or perceived breach of security occurs, customer and/or supplier perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and could result in the loss of customers, suppliers or both. Actual or anticipated attacks and risks may cause us to incur increasing costs, including costs to deploy additional personnel and protection technologies, train employees, and engage third-party experts and consultants.. A successful penetration or circumvention of the security of our systems could cause serious negative consequences, including significant disruption of our operations, misappropriation of our confidential information or that of our customers, or damage to our computers or systems or those of our customers and counterparties, and could result in violations of applicable privacy and other laws, financial loss to us or to our customers, loss of confidence in our security measures, customer dissatisfaction, significant litigation exposure, and harm to our reputation, all of which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, our applicants provide personal information, including bank account information when applying for loans. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide the security and authentication to effectively secure transmission of confidential information, including customer bank account and other personal information. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments may result in the technology used by us to protect transaction data being breached or compromised. Data breaches can also occur as a result of non-technical issues.. 45. Our servers are also vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, and similar disruptions, including \"denial-of-service\" type attacks. We may need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches or to address problems caused by breaches. Security breaches, including any breach of our systems or by persons with whom we have commercial relationships that result in the unauthorized release of consumers' personal information, could damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. In addition, many of the third parties who provide products, services or support to us could also experience any of the above cyber risks or security breaches, which could impact our customers and our business and could result in a loss of customers, suppliers or revenues.. In addition, federal and some state regulators are considering promulgating rules and standards to address cybersecurity risks and many US states and the UK have already enacted laws requiring companies to notify individuals of data security breaches involving their personal data. These mandatory disclosures regarding a security breach are costly to implement and may lead to widespread negative publicity, which may cause customers to lose confidence in the effectiveness of our data security measures.. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. Our ability to collect payment on loans and maintain accurate accounts may be adversely affected by computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, technical errors and similar disruptions.. The automated nature of our platform may make it an attractive target for hacking and potentially vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions. Despite efforts to ensure the integrity of our platform, it is possible that we may not be able to anticipate or to implement effective preventive measures against all security breaches of these types, in which case there would be an increased risk of fraud or identity theft, and we may experience losses on, or delays in the collection of amounts owed on, a fraudulently induced loan. In addition, the software that we have developed to use in our daily operations is highly complex and may contain undetected technical errors that could cause our computer systems to fail. Because each loan made involves our proprietary credit and fraud scoring models, and over 95% of loan applications are fully automated with no manual review required, any failure of our computer systems involving our proprietary credit and fraud scoring models and any technical or other errors contained in the software pertaining to our proprietary credit and fraud scoring models could compromise the ability to accurately evaluate potential customers, which would negatively impact our results of operations. Furthermore, any failure of our computer systems could cause an interruption in operations and result in disruptions in, or reductions in the amount of, collections from the loans we made to customers. If any of these risks were to materialize, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. Our platform and internal systems rely on software that is highly technical, and if it contains undetected errors, our business could be adversely affected.. Our platform and internal systems rely on software that is highly technical and complex. In addition, our platform and internal systems depend on the ability of such software to store, retrieve, process and manage immense amounts of data. The software on which we rely has contained, and may now or in the future contain, undetected errors or bugs. Some errors may only be discovered after the code has been released for external or internal use. Errors or other design defects within the software on which we rely may result in a negative experience for borrowers, delay introductions of new features or enhancements, result in errors or compromise our ability to protect borrower data or our intellectual property. Any errors, bugs or defects discovered in the software on which we rely could result in harm to our reputation, loss of borrowers, loss of revenues or liability for damages, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. 46. To date, we have derived our revenues from a limited number of products and markets. Our efforts to expand our market reach and product portfolio may not succeed or may put pressure on our margins.. In the future, we may elect to pursue new products, channels, or markets. For example, among other potential new products, we are starting to assess a flexible line of credit concept to meet a customer's month-to-month credit needs. However, there is always risk that these new products, channels, or markets will be unprofitable, will increase costs, decrease margins, or take longer to generate target margins than anticipated. Additional costs could include those related to the need to hire more staff, invest in technology, develop and support new third-party partnerships or other costs which would increase operating expenses. In particular, growth may require additional technology staff, analysts in risk management, compliance personnel and customer support and collections staff. Although the Company outsources most of its customer support and collections staff, additional volumes would lead to increased costs in these areas.. When new customers are acquired, from an accounting point of view, we must recognize marketing costs and loan origination and data costs, and we incur a provision for loan losses, including with regard to Elastic loan participations that are purchased from the originating lender by a third party, which we protect from loan losses pursuant to a credit default protection arrangement. Because of this, new customer acquisition does not typically yield positive margins for at least six months. As a result, rapid growth tends to compress margins in the near-term until growth rates slow down.. Rise, a state-licensed product, offers different rates and terms based on state law. In states with lower maximum rates, we have more stringent credit criteria and generally lower initial customer profitability due to higher customer acquisition costs and higher losses as a percentage of revenues. While these states can have significant growth potential, they typically deliver lower profit margins.. We may elect to pursue aggressive growth over margin expansion in order to increase market share and long-term revenue opportunities.. There also can be no guarantee that we will be successful with respect to any new product initiatives or any further expansion beyond the US and the UK, if we decide to attempt such expansion, which may inhibit the growth of our business and have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. Our allowance for loan losses is determined based upon both objective and subjective factors and may not be adequate to absorb loan losses. If we experience rising credit or fraud losses, our results of operations would be adversely affected.. We face the risk that customers will fail to repay their loans in full. We reserve for such losses by establishing an allowance for loan losses, the increase of which results in a charge to our earnings as a provision for loan losses. We have established a methodology designed to determine the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses. While this evaluation process uses historical and other objective information, the classification of loans and the forecasts and establishment of loan losses are also dependent on our subjective assessment based upon our experience and judgment. Actual losses are difficult to forecast, especially if such losses stem from factors beyond our historical experience. As a result, there can be no assurance that our allowance for loan losses will be sufficient to absorb losses or prevent a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Losses are the largest cost as a percentage of revenues across all of our products. Fraud and customers not being able to repay their loans are both significant drivers of loss rates. If we experienced rising credit or fraud losses this would significantly reduce our earnings and profit margins and could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. Increased customer acquisition costs and/or data costs would reduce our margins.. Although losses are our largest cost, if customer acquisition costs or other servicing costs increased this would reduce our profit margins. Marketing costs would be negatively affected by increased competition or stricter credit standards that would reduce customer fund rates. We could also experience increased marketing costs due to higher fees from credit bureaus for preapproved direct mail lists, search engines for search engine marketing, or fees for affiliates, and these increased costs would reduce our profit margins.. We purchase significant amounts of data to facilitate our proprietary credit and fraud scoring models. If there was an increase in the cost of data or if the Company elected to purchase from new data providers there would be a reduction in our profit margins.. Any such reduction in our profit margins could result in a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. 47. Our success is dependent, in part, upon our officers and key employees, and if we are not able to attract and retain qualified officers and key employees, or if one of our officers or key employees is temporarily unable to fully contribute to our operations, our business could be materially adversely affected.. Our success depends, in part, on our officers, which comprise a relatively small group of individuals. Many members of the senior management team have significant industry experience, and we believe that our senior management would be difficult to replace, if necessary. Because the market for qualified individuals is highly competitive, we may not be able to attract and retain qualified officers or candidates. In addition, increasing regulations on, and negative publicity about, the consumer financial services industry could affect our ability to attract and retain qualified officers. Kenneth E. Rees, our Chief Executive Officer, is a competitive cyclist. Although we maintain key-man life insurance, such insurance may not be sufficient to compensate us for losses if Mr. Rees were injured in a cycling accident, or otherwise, and unable to be fully active in the business while recuperating, and, additionally, in the event we lose Mr. Rees' services, we could face an event of default under the VPC Facility, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. Our future success also depends on our continuing ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain highly qualified and skilled employees. Qualified individuals are in high demand, and we may incur significant costs to attract and retain them. The loss of any of our senior management or key employees could materially adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan and strategy, and we may not be able to find adequate replacements on a timely basis, or at all. We cannot ensure that we will be able retain the services of any members of our senior management or other key employees. Our officers and key employees may terminate their employment relationship with us at any time, and their knowledge of our business and industry would be extremely difficult to replace. While all key employees have signed non-disclosure, non-solicitation and non-compete agreements, they may still elect to leave the Company or even retire any time. Loss of key employees could result in delays to critical initiatives and the loss of certain capabilities and poorly documented intellectual property.. If we do not succeed in attracting and retaining our officers and key employees, our business could be materially and adversely affected.. Our US loan business is seasonal in nature, which causes our revenues and earnings to fluctuate.. Our US loan business is affected by fluctuating demand for the products and services we offer and fluctuating collection rates throughout the year. Demand for our consumer loan products in the US has historically been highest in the third and fourth quarters of each year, corresponding to the holiday season, and lowest in the first quarter of each year, corresponding to our customers' receipt of income tax refunds. This results in significant increases and decreases in portfolio size and profit margins from quarter to quarter. In particular, we typically experience a reduction in our credit portfolios and an increase in profit margins in the first quarter of the year. When we experience higher growth in the second quarter through fourth quarters, portfolio balances tend to grow and profit margins are compressed. Our cost of sales for the non-prime loan products we offer in the US, which represents our provision for loan losses, is lowest as a percentage of revenues in the first quarter of each year, corresponding to our customers' receipt of income tax refunds, and increases as a percentage of revenues for the remainder of each year. This seasonality requires us to manage our cash flows over the course of the year. If our revenues or collections were to fall substantially below what we would normally expect during certain periods, our ability to service debt and meet our other liquidity requirements may be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. If internet search engine providers change their methodologies for organic rankings or paid search results, or our organic rankings or paid search results decline for other reasons, our new customer growth or volume from returning customers could decline.. Our new customer acquisition marketing and our returning customer relationship management is partly dependent on search engines such as Google, Bing and Yahoo! to direct a significant amount of traffic to our desktop and mobile websites via organic ranking and paid search advertising. We bid on certain keywords from search engines as well as use their algorithms to place our listings ahead of other lenders.. Our paid search activities may not continue to produce the desired results. Internet search engines often revise their methodologies. The volume of customers we receive through organic ranking and paid search could be adversely affected by any such changes in methodologies or policies by search engine providers, by:. • decreasing our organic rankings or paid search results;. • creating difficulty for our customers in using our web and mobile sites;. 48. • producing more successful organic rankings, paid search results or tactical execution efforts for our competitors than for us; and. • resulting in higher costs for acquiring new or returning customers.. In addition, search engines could implement policies that restrict the ability of companies such as us to advertise their services and products, which could prevent us from appearing in a favorable location or any location in the organic rankings or paid search results when certain search terms are used by the consumer. Our online marketing efforts are also susceptible to actions by third parties that negatively impact our search results such as spam link attacks, which are often referred to as \"black hat\" tactics. Our sites have experienced meaningful fluctuations in organic rankings and paid search results in the past, and we anticipate similar fluctuations in the future. Any reduction in the number of consumers directed to our web and mobile sites could harm our business and operating results.. Finally, our competitors' paid search, pay per click or search engine marketing activities may result in their sites receiving higher paid search results than ours and significantly increasing the cost of such advertising for us. We have little to no control over these potential changes in policy and methodologies relating to search engine results, and any of the changes described above could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. Failure to keep up with the rapid technological changes in financial services and e-commerce, or changes in the uses and regulation of the internet could harm our business.. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial and lending institutions to better serve customers and reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services as quickly as some of our competitors or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could harm our ability to compete with our competitors.. Additionally, the business of providing products and services such as ours over the internet is dynamic and relatively new. We must keep pace with rapid technological change, consumer use habits, internet security risks, risks of system failure or inadequacy, and governmental regulation and taxation, and each of these factors could adversely impact our business. In addition, concerns about fraud, computer security and privacy and/or other problems may discourage additional consumers from adopting or continuing to use the internet as a medium of commerce. Also, to expand our customer base, we may elect to appeal to and acquire consumers who prove to be less profitable than our previous customers, and as a result we may be unable to gain efficiencies in our operating costs, including our cost of acquiring new customers, and our business could be adversely impacted.. Any such failure to adapt to changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. Our ability to conduct our business and demand for our loans could be disrupted by natural or man-made catastrophes.. Catastrophes, such as fires, hurricanes and tornadoes, floods, earthquakes, or other natural disasters, terrorist attacks, computer viruses and telecommunications failures, could adversely affect our ability to market, originate or service loans. Natural disasters and acts of terrorism, war, civil unrest, violence or human error could also cause disruptions to our business or the economy as a whole, which could negatively affect customers' demand for our loans. Despite any precautions we may take, system interruptions and delays could occur if there is a natural disaster that affects our offices or one of the data center facilities we lease. As we rely heavily on our servers, computer and communications systems and the internet to conduct our business and provide high-quality customer service, such disruptions could harm our ability to market our products, accept and underwrite applications, provide customer service and undertake collections activities and cause lengthy delays which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have implemented a disaster recovery program that allows us to move production to a backup data center in the event of a catastrophe. Although this program is functional, we do not currently serve network traffic equally from each backup data center, and are not able to switch instantly to our backup center in the event of failure of the main server site. If our primary data center shuts down, there will be a period of time that our loan products or services, or certain of such loan products or services, will remain inaccessible to our users or our users may experience severe issues accessing such loan products and services. Our business interruption insurance may not be sufficient to compensate us for losses that may result from interruptions in our service as a result of system failures.. 49. Any of these events could also cause consumer confidence to decrease in one or more of the markets we serve, which could result in a decreased number of loans being made to customers. As a result of these issues, any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. We may be unable to protect our proprietary technology and analytics or keep up with that of our competitors.. The success of our business depends to a significant degree upon the protection of our proprietary technology, including our proprietary credit and fraud scoring models, which we use for pricing loans. We seek to protect our intellectual property with non-disclosure agreements and through standard measures to protect trade secrets. However, we may be unable to deter misappropriation of our proprietary information, detect unauthorized use or take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. If competitors learn our trade secrets (especially with regard to marketing and risk management capabilities) it could be difficult to successfully prosecute to recover damages. A third party may attempt to reverse engineer or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technology without our consent. The pursuit of a claim against a third party for infringement of our intellectual property could be costly, and there can be no guarantee that any such efforts would be successful. Our failure to protect our software and other proprietary intellectual property rights or to develop technologies that are as good as our competitors' could put us at a disadvantage relative to our competitors. Any such failures could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. We are subject to intellectual property disputes from time to time, and such disputes may be costly to defend and could harm our business and operating results.. We have faced and may continue to face allegations that we have infringed the trademarks, copyrights, patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties, including from our competitors or non-practicing entities. Patent and other intellectual property litigation may be protracted and expensive, and the results are difficult to predict and may require us to stop offering certain products or product features, acquire licenses, which may not be available at a commercially reasonable price or at all, or modify such products, product features, processes or websites while we develop non-infringing substitutes.. In addition, we use open source software in our technology platform and plan to use open source software in the future. From time to time, we may face claims from parties claiming ownership of, or demanding release of, the source code, potentially including our valuable proprietary code, or derivative works that were developed using such software, or otherwise seeking to enforce the terms of the applicable open source license. These claims could also result in litigation, require us to purchase a costly license or require us to devote additional research and development resources to change our platform, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. Current and future litigation or regulatory proceedings could cause management distraction, harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. We, our officers and certain of our subsidiaries have been and may become subject to lawsuits that could cause us to incur substantial expenditures, generate adverse publicity and could significantly impair our business, force us to cease doing business in one or more jurisdictions or cause us to cease offering or alter one or more products. Additionally, our Chief Executive Officer is party to civil suits in California, Florida, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Vermont and Virginia alleging violations of several statutes, including the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010, Federal Trade Commission Act, Electronic Funds Transfer Act, Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act and others.. We may also be subject to litigation in the future and an adverse ruling in or a settlement of any such future litigation against us, our executive officers or another lender, or against our Chief Executive Officer in connection with current litigation matters, could result in significant legal fees that could become material, could harm our reputation, cause us to have to refund fees and/or interest collected, forego collection of the principal amount of loans, pay treble or other multiple damages, pay monetary penalties and/or modify or terminate our operations in particular jurisdictions.. Defense of any lawsuit, even if successful, could require substantial time and attention of our management and could require the expenditure of significant amounts for legal fees and other related costs. We and others are also subject to regulatory proceedings, and we could suffer losses as a result of interpretations of applicable laws, rules and regulations in those regulatory proceedings, even if we are not a party to those proceedings. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. 50. We may be unable to use some or all of our net operating loss carryforwards, which could materially and adversely affect our reported financial condition and results of operations.. At December 31, 2017, we had US and UK net operating loss carryforwards (\"NOLs\") of $42.9 million and $22.5 million, respectively, available to offset future taxable income, due to prior period losses. If not utilized, the US NOLs will begin to expire in 2034. The UK NOLs can be carried forward indefinitely. Realization of these NOLs depends on future income, and there is a risk that our existing US NOLs could expire unused and be unavailable to offset future income tax liabilities, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"), our ability to utilize NOLs or other tax attributes, such as research tax credits, in any taxable year may be limited if we experience an \"ownership change.\" A Section 382 \"ownership change\" generally occurs if one or more stockholders or groups of stockholders, who own at least 5% of our stock, increase their ownership by more than 50 percentage points over their lowest ownership percentage within a rolling three-year period. Similar rules may apply under state tax laws. We have not completed a Section 382 analysis through December 31, 2017. If we have previously had, or have in the future, one or more Section 382 \"ownership changes,\" including in connection with our IPO, or if we do not generate sufficient taxable income, we may not be able to utilize a material portion of our NOLs, even if we achieve profitability. If we are limited in our ability to use our NOLs in future years in which we have taxable income, we will pay more taxes than if we were able to fully utilize our NOLs. This could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR ASSOCIATION WITH TFI. Third parties may seek to hold us responsible for liabilities of TFI that we did not assume in our agreements.. In connection with our separation from TFI, TFI has generally agreed to retain all liabilities that did not historically arise from our business. Third parties may seek to hold us responsible for TFI's retained liabilities, including third-party claims arising from TFI's business and retained assets. Under the separation and distribution agreement, we are responsible for the debts, liabilities and other obligations related to the business or businesses that we own and operate. Under our agreements with TFI, TFI has agreed to indemnify us for claims and losses relating to its retained liabilities. However, if any of those liabilities are significant and we are ultimately held liable for such liabilities, we cannot assure you that we will be able to recover the full amount of our losses from TFI.. Although we do not anticipate liability for any obligations not expressly assumed by us pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement, it is possible that we could be required to assume responsibility for certain obligations retained by TFI should TFI fail to pay or perform its retained obligations. For instance, the spin-off could be challenged under various state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws. An unpaid creditor or an entity vested with the power of such creditor (such as a trustee or debtor-in-possession in a bankruptcy) could claim that the distribution left TFI insolvent or with unreasonably small capital or that TFI intended or believed it would incur debts beyond its ability to pay such debts as they mature and that TFI did not receive fair consideration or reasonably equivalent value in the spin-off. The measure of insolvency for purposes of such fraudulent conveyance laws will vary depending on which jurisdiction's law is applied. Generally, however, an entity would be considered insolvent if either the fair saleable value of its assets is less than the amount of its liabilities (including the probable amount of contingent liabilities), or it is unlikely to be able to pay its liabilities as they become due. We do not know what standard a court would apply to determine insolvency; however, if a court were to conclude that the spin-off constituted a fraudulent conveyance, then such court could void the distribution as a fraudulent transfer and could impose a number of different remedies, including without limitation, returning our assets or your shares in our Company to TFI, voiding our liens and claims (if any) against TFI, or providing TFI with a claim for money damages against us in an amount equal to the difference between the consideration received by TFI and the fair market value of our Company at the time of the distribution.. 51. The CFPB has authority to investigate and issue Civil Investigative Demands to consumer lending businesses, and may issue fines or corrective orders.. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the \"CFPB\") has authority to investigate and issue Civil Investigative Demands (\"CIDs\") to consumer lending businesses, including us. In June 2012, prior to the spin-off, and after the spin-off, TFI received CIDs from the CFPB. The purpose of the CIDs purportedly was to determine whether TFI engaged in unlawful acts or practices relating to the advertising, marketing, provision, or collection of small-dollar loan products, in violation of parts of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the \"Dodd-Frank Act\"), the Truth in Lending Act, the Electronic Funds Transfer Act, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, or any other federal consumer financial law and to determine whether CFPB action to obtain legal or equitable relief would be in the public interest. On November 15, 2017, the CFPB sued TFI alleging it engaged in unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts or practices. While TFI's business is distinct from our business, we cannot predict the final outcome of this litigation or to what extent any obligations arising out of such final outcome will be applicable to our Company, business or officers, if at all.. OTHER RISKS RELATED TO COMPLIANCE AND REGULATION. We, our marketing affiliates, our third-party service providers and Republic Bank, which originates Elastic, the line of credit product, are subject to complex federal, state and local lending and consumer protection laws, and if we fail to comply with applicable laws, regulations, rules and guidance, our business could be adversely affected.. We, our marketing affiliates, our third-party service providers and Republic Bank, which originates Elastic, the line of credit product, must comply with US federal, state and local regulatory regimes, including those applicable to consumer credit transactions. Certain US federal and state laws generally regulate interest rates and other charges and require certain disclosures. In particular, we may be subject to laws such as:. • local regulations and ordinances that impose requirements or restrictions related to certain loan product offerings and collection practices;. • state laws and regulations that impose requirements related to loan or credit service disclosures and terms, credit discrimination, credit reporting, debt servicing and collection;. • the Truth in Lending Act and Regulation Z promulgated thereunder, and similar state laws, which require certain disclosures to borrowers regarding the terms and conditions of their loans and credit transactions;. • Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act, which prohibits unfair and deceptive acts or practices in or affecting commerce, Section 1031 of the Dodd-Frank Act, which prohibits unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices in connection with any consumer financial product or service, and similar state laws that prohibit unfair and deceptive acts or practices;. • the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and Regulation B promulgated thereunder and state non-discrimination laws, which generally prohibit creditors from discriminating against credit applicants on the basis of race, color, sex, age, religion, national origin, marital status, the fact that all or part of the applicant's income derives from any public assistance program or the fact that the applicant has in good faith exercised any right under the federal Consumer Credit Protection Act;. • the Fair Credit Reporting Act (the \"FCRA\") as amended by the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act, and similar state laws, which promote the accuracy, fairness and privacy of information in the files of consumer reporting agencies;. • the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (the \"FDCPA\") and similar state and local debt collection laws, which provide guidelines and limitations on the conduct of third-party debt collectors and creditors in connection with the collection of consumer debts;. • the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and Regulation P promulgated thereunder and similar state privacy laws, which include limitations on financial institutions' disclosure of nonpublic personal information about a consumer to nonaffiliated third parties, in certain circumstances require financial institutions to limit the use and further disclosure of nonpublic personal information by nonaffiliated third parties to whom they disclose such information and require financial institutions to disclose certain privacy policies and practices with respect to information sharing with affiliated and nonaffiliated entities as well as to safeguard personal customer information, and other privacy laws and regulations;. • the Bankruptcy Code and similar state insolvency laws, which limit the extent to which creditors may seek to enforce debts against parties who have filed for bankruptcy protection;. 52. • the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act and similar state laws, which allow military members and certain dependents to suspend or postpone certain civil obligations, as well as limit applicable rates, so that the military member can devote his or her full attention to military duties;. • the Military Lending Act and Department of Defense rules, which limit the interest rate and fees that may be charged to military members and their dependents, requires certain disclosures and prohibits certain mandatory clauses among other restrictions;. • the Electronic Fund Transfer Act and Regulation E promulgated thereunder, which provide disclosure requirements, guidelines and restrictions on the electronic transfer of funds from consumers' asset accounts;. • the Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act and similar state laws, particularly the Uniform Electronic Transactions Act, which authorize the creation of legally binding and enforceable agreements utilizing electronic records and signatures and, with consumer consent, permits required disclosures to be provided electronically;. • the Bank Secrecy Act, which relates to compliance with anti-money laundering, customer due diligence and record-keeping policies and procedures; and. • the Telephone Consumer Protection Act (the \"TCPA\") and the regulations of the Federal Communications Commission (the \"FCC\"), which regulations include limitations on telemarketing calls, auto-dialed calls, prerecorded calls, text messages and unsolicited faxes.. While it is our intention to always be in compliance with these laws, it is possible that we may currently be, or at some time have been, inadvertently out of compliance with some or any such laws. Further, all applicable laws are subject to evolving regulatory and judicial interpretations, which further complicate real-time compliance. Lastly, compliance with these laws is costly, time-consuming and limits our operational flexibility.. Failure to comply with these laws and regulatory requirements applicable to our business may, among other things, limit our or a collection agency's ability to collect all or part of the principal of or interest on loans. As a result, we may not be able to collect on unpaid principal or interest. In addition, non-compliance could subject us to damages, revocation of required licenses, class action lawsuits, administrative enforcement actions, rescission rights held by investors in securities offerings and civil and criminal liability, which may harm our business and may result in borrowers rescinding their loans.. Where applicable, we seek to comply with state installment, CSO, servicing and similar statutes. In all US jurisdictions with licensing or other requirements that we believe may be applicable to us, we comply with the relevant requirements by acquiring the necessary licenses or authorization and submitting appropriate registrations in connection therewith. Nevertheless, if we are found to not have complied with applicable laws, we could lose one or more of our licenses or authorizations or face other sanctions or penalties or be required to obtain other licenses or authorizations in such jurisdiction, which may have an adverse effect on our ability to perform our servicing obligations or make products or services available to borrowers in particular states, which may harm our business.. Our products currently have usage caps and limitations on lending based on internally developed \"responsible lending guidelines.\" If those policies become more restrictive due to legislative or regulatory changes at either the local, state, US federal, or UK regulatory level these products would experience declining revenues per customer.. The CFPB may have examination authority over our US consumer lending business that could have a significant impact on our US business.. In July 2010, the US Congress passed the Dodd-Frank Act. Title X of the Dodd-Frank Act created the CFPB, which regulates US consumer financial products and services, and gave it regulatory, supervisory and enforcement powers over certain providers of consumer financial products and services, including authority to examine such providers.. The CFPB is currently considering rules to define larger participants in markets for consumer installment loans for purposes of supervision.   Once this rule and corresponding examination rules are established, we anticipate the CFPB will examine us.  The CFPB's examination authority permits CFPB examiners to inspect the books and records of providers, and ask questions about their business practices. The examination procedures include specific modules for examining marketing activities, loan application and origination activities, payment processing activities and sustained use by consumers, collections, accounts in default, consumer reporting activities and third-party relationships. As a result of these examinations, we could be required to change our products, our services or our practices, whether as a result of another party being examined or as a result of an examination of us, or we could be subject to monetary penalties, which could reduce profit margins for the company or otherwise materially adversely affect us.. 53. Furthermore, the CFPB's practices and procedures regarding civil investigations, examination, enforcement and other matters relevant to us and other CFPB-regulated entities are subject to further development and change. Where the CFPB holds powers previously assigned to other regulators or may interpret laws previously interpreted by other regulators, the CFPB may not continue to apply such powers or interpret relevant concepts consistent with previous regulators' practice. This may adversely affect our ability to anticipate the CFPB's expectations or interpretations in our interaction with the CFPB.. The CFPB also has broad authority to prohibit unfair, deceptive and abusive acts and practices and to investigate and penalize financial institutions that violate this prohibition. In addition to having the authority to obtain monetary penalties for violations of applicable federal consumer financial laws (including the CFPB's own rules), the CFPB can require remediation of practices, pursue administrative proceedings or litigation and obtain cease and desist orders (which can include orders for restitution or rescission of contracts, as well as other kinds of affirmative relief). Also, where a company is believed to have violated Title X of the Dodd-Frank Act or CFPB regulations implemented thereunder, the Dodd-Frank Act empowers state attorneys general and state regulators to bring civil actions to remedy such violations after consulting with the CFPB. If the CFPB or one or more state attorneys general or state regulators believe that we have violated any of the applicable laws or regulations, they could exercise their enforcement powers in ways that could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. Lastly, on June 8, 2017, the House Financial Services Committee passed the Financial CHOICE Act which would replace the Dodd-Frank Act.  It calls for removal of authority to regulate small-dollar credit, repeals authority to restrict arbitration, and would eliminate CFPB's authority to prohibit unfair, deceptive and abusive acts and practices.  It is unknown what the outcome of this legislation will be or its impact to Elevate's operations. The House version of the Financial CHOICE Act is still pending before the Senate.. The CFPB issued final rules affecting the consumer lending industry, and these or subsequent new rules and regulations, if they are finalized, may impact our US consumer lending business.. The CFPB released its final \"Payday, Vehicle Title, and Certain High-Cost Lending Rule\" (\"Rule\") on October 5, 2017.    The final rule applies to:  short-term loans with a term of 45 days or less, longer-term balloon payment loans, and longer-term loans that have an APR of 36% or higher and have a \"leveraged payment mechanism\" such as an ACH payment plan.  Under the final rule, we are required to provide a written notice before we attempt to withdraw a payment and before subsequent attempts that deviate from the scheduled amounts or dates or involve a different payment mechanism.  Additionally, when two consecutive withdrawal attempts have failed due to insufficient funds, we are required to obtain a new authorization to make further withdrawals before another withdrawal is attempted.  There are also recordkeeping requirements that will be new for us under the rule. The Rule became effective on January 16, 2018 but the compliance date for the above provisions is August 19, 2019. Notably, on January16, 2018, the CFPB announced that it \"intends to engage in a rulemaking process so that the Bureau may reconsider the Payday Rule.\" This announcement follows the December 2017 introduction in the House of Representatives of a bipartisan resolution to disapprove of the Rule under the Congressional Review Act. It is unknown what the outcome of this rulemaking process or Congressional Review Act resolution will be or its impact to Elevate's operations.. The CFPB's Fall 2017 Agency Rule List, posted on the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs of the Office of Management and Budget's website, lists certain rules noted below that may impact Elevate's operations along with the stage of development and estimated date for issuance of a Notice of Proposed Rule Making:. • Debt Collection Rule - concerning FDCPA collectors' communications practices and consumer disclosures; in the Proposed Rule Stage with a stated date of February 2018 for the issuance of the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking.. • Supervision of Larger Participants in Markets for Personal Loans - defining larger participants in the market for personal loans including consumer installment loans and vehicle title loans for purposes of supervision; in the Proposed Rule Stage with a stated date of May 2018 for the issuance of the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking.. 54. Since the CFPB's Fall 2017 Agency Rule List was posted, Mick Mulvaney was appointed as the Acting Director of the CFPB.  As a result, it is unknown whether these timelines are still accurate and also what the outcome of this rulemaking process would be on the oversight of Elevate's operations. There is controversy surrounding the leadership of the CFPB. Leandra English was elevated as Acting Deputy Director by Richard Cordray before he resigned in November 2017. Subsequently, the Trump Administration appointed Mick Mulvaney as Acting Director. Ms. English sued President Trump and Mr. Mulvaney to prevent Mr. Mulvaney from running the CFPB. Currently, Ms. English is appealing an Order denying her motion for a preliminary injunction. On January 23, 2018, the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals granted Ms. English's motion for an expedited review of her appeal.  Briefing is scheduled to be complete by March 6, 2018. We do not know when the court will issue its ruling on the appeal and it is not clear what impact this case will have on the power and structure of the CFPB and the oversight of Elevate's business.. On January 31, 2018, the D.C. Circuit court, sitting en banc, decided that the CFPB's structure - featuring a single director whom the President may remove only for cause - was constitutional. It is not clear what impact this case will have on the oversight of Elevate's business.. On February 13, 2018, the CFPB issued its Strategic Plan for Fiscal Years 2018-2022 outlining its three strategic goals:. • Ensure that all consumers have access to markets for consumer financial products and services;. • Implement and enforce the law consistently to ensure that markets for consumer financial products and services are fair, transparent, and competitive; and. • Foster operational excellence through efficient and effective processes, governance, and security of resources and information.. It is unclear what impact this Strategic Plan will have on the oversight of Elevate's business.. Lastly, the Bureau has issued or anticipates issuing Requests for Information (\"RFIs\") on the following topics:  CIDs, Use of Administrative Adjudications, Enforcement, Supervision, External Engagement, Complaint Reporting, Rulemaking Processes, Bureau Rules Not Under §1022(d) Assessment, Inherited Rules, Guidance and Implementation Support, Consumer Education and Consumer Inquiries. It is unclear what impact, if any, the findings or outcomes of the RFIs will have on the oversight of Elevate's business.. The FDIC has issued examination guidance affecting banks, such as Republic Bank, which originates the Elastic product, and these or subsequent new rules and regulations could have a significant impact on the Elastic product.. The Elastic line of credit product is offered by Republic Bank using technology, underwriting and marketing services provided by Elevate. Republic Bank is supervised and examined by the FDIC. If the FDIC considers any aspect of the Elastic product to be inconsistent with its guidance, Republic Bank may be required to alter the product.. On July 29, 2016, the board of directors of the FDIC released examination guidance relating to third-party lending as part of a package of materials designed to \"improve the transparency and clarity of the FDIC's supervisory policies and practices\" and consumer compliance measures that FDIC-supervised institutions should follow when lending through a business relationship with a third party. The proposed guidance, if finalized, would apply to all FDIC-supervised institutions that engage in third-party lending programs, such as Elastic.. The proposed guidance elaborates on previously issued agency guidance on managing third-party risks and specifically addresses third-party lending arrangements where an FDIC-supervised institution relies on a third party to perform a significant aspect of the lending process. The types of relationships that would be covered by the guidance include (but are not limited to) relationships for originating loans on behalf of, through or jointly with third parties, or using platforms developed by third parties. If adopted as proposed, the guidance would result in increased supervisory attention of institutions that engage in significant lending activities through third parties, including at least one examination every 12 months, as well as supervisory expectations for a third-party lending risk management program and third-party lending policies that contain certain minimum requirements, such as self-imposed limits as a percentage of total capital for each third-party lending relationship and for the overall loan program, relative to origination volumes, credit exposures (including pipeline risk), growth, loan types, and acceptable credit quality. Comments on the guidance were due October 27, 2016.. 55. The Trump Administration has nominated Jelena McWilliams to be Chair of the FDIC to replace Martin Gruenberg, whose term as Chair expired in November 2017. Mr. Gruenberg is eligible to remain on the FDIC board but has not yet said if he will retire once his successor as chair is confirmed. At this time, it is unclear what impact the incoming Chair will have on the FDIC's third-party lending policy.. The UK has imposed, and continues to impose, increased regulation of the high-cost short-term credit industry with the stated expectation that some firms will exit the market.. In the UK, we are subject to regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (the \"FCA\") pursuant to the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (the \"FSMA\"), the Consumer Credit Act 1974, as amended (the \"CCA\"), and secondary legislation passed under such statutes, among other rules and regulations including the FCA Handbook, which collectively serve to transpose the obligations under the European Consumer Credit Directive into UK law.. The FSMA gives the FCA the power to authorize, supervise, examine, bring enforcement actions and impose fines and disciplinary sanctions against providers of consumer credit, as well as to make rules for the regulation of consumer credit. The Consumer Credit Sourcebook (the \"CONC\") incorporates prescriptive regulations for consumer loans such as those that we offer, including mandatory affordability checks on borrowers, limiting the number of refinances, or \"rollovers,\" to two, restricting how lenders can advertise, banning advertisements that the FCA deems misleading, and introducing a limit of two unsuccessful attempts on the use of continuous payment authority (\"CPA\") (which provides a creditor the ability to directly debit a customer's account for payment using their bank card details when authorized by the customer to do so) to pay off a loan. The UK also has strict regulations regarding advertising (including websites) and the presentation, form and content of loan agreements, including statutory warnings, the layout of prescribed financial information, as well as in relation to defaulted loans and collections activities.. In the period since the FCA acquired responsibility for the regulation of consumer credit in the UK in place of the Office of Fair Trading (the \"OFT\") in April 2014, there have been a large number of new regulations affecting our UK product offerings.  These include the introduction of a rate cap, a prohibition on certain types of line of credit products, the establishment of a price comparison website, and restrictions on payment processing activities, among other changes. The rate cap imposes a maximum interest rate of 0.8% per day and maximum late payment fee of £15; the total amount charged for the loan, including all default charges, must not exceed 100% of the capital sum originally borrowed. This rule translates to a maximum rate of £24 for every £100 borrowed for a 30 day period, or 0.8% per day. The maximum fees that can be earned on the loan (through interest, default fees, and late interest) ensure that a consumer cannot pay back more than twice the amount of principal borrowed. In July 2016, the FCA announced that it had reviewed the impact of the 0.8% per day price cap and concluded that the current price cap will be left in place. The FCA will review the price cap again in 2020. In the meantime, the FCA is monitoring whether there are any unintended consequences of the price cap emerging for firms or consumers, including the impact on people no longer able to access high-cost short-term credit.. During the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, our UK operations represented 15% and 17%, respectively, of our consolidated total revenues. The results for each of these periods may not be indicative of our future results of operations and cash flows from our operations in the UK.. The changes that we have implemented or any changes we may be required to implement in the future as a result of such legislative and regulatory activities could have a material adverse effect on our UK business.. Additionally, in June 2013, the OFT referred the payday lending industry in the UK to the Competition Commission, which is now the Competition & Markets Authority (the \"CMA\") for a market investigation. The CMA gathered data from industry participants, including us, in connection with its review of the UK payday lending industry to determine whether certain features of the payday lending industry prevent, restrict or distort competition (which is also referred to as having an adverse effect on competition) and, if so, what remedial action should be taken. The CMA published its final report in February 2015; its recommendations were implemented under the Payday Lending Market Investigation Order 2015, under which:. • online lenders must provide details of their products on at least one FCA authorized price comparison website (\"PCW\") and include a hyperlink from their website to the relevant PCW; and. •payday lenders must provide existing customers with a summary of their cost of borrowing.. These changes, which are reflected in FCA rules, came into effect on December 1, 2016.. 56. On November 29, 2016, the FCA issued a Call for Input seeking information from lenders including a review of the loan price cap that was implemented on January 2, 2015. On July 31, 2017, the FCA published the outcome of its review and at this time will not change the price cap.  The next price cap review will be in three years.  Further, the FCA found that regulation of high-cost short-term credit, including the price cap, has led to substantial benefits to consumers. The FCA validated concerns about specific products and segments of the high-cost credit market, including unarranged overdrafts and long-term use of high-cost credit and the rent-to-own, home-collected credit and catalog credit markets. The FCA plans further investigation of those products and segments and the issuance of a Consultation Paper in early to mid-2018. We do not know what recommendations the FCA may make or how any changes may affect our business operations. If any new rules or guidance significantly restrict the conduct of our business, such implementation could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. On July 31, 2017, the FCA issued a Consultation Paper on proposed changes to its rules and guidance on assessing creditworthiness in consumer credit. The FCA requested responses to the consultation by October 31, 2017 and expects to publish its findings in the second quarter of 2018. We do not currently know whether or how the FCA may amend its rules and guidance on assessing creditworthiness in consumer credit or how it will affect our business operations. If the FCA adopts rules that significantly restrict the conduct of our business, any such rules could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows or could make the continuance of all or part of our UK business impractical or unprofitable. Any new rules adopted by the FCA could also result in significant compliance costs.. In February 2016, the FCA issued full authorization to Elevate for our UK business. Similar to US federal and state regulatory regimes, the FCA has the power to revoke, suspend or impose conditions upon our authorization to conduct a consumer credit business if it determines we are out of compliance with applicable UK laws, high-cost short-term rules or other legal requirements ensuring fair treatment of consumers.. Our advertising and marketing materials and disclosures have been and continue to be subject to regulatory scrutiny, particularly in the UK.. In the jurisdictions where we operate, our advertising and marketing activities and disclosures are subject to regulation under various industry standards, consumer protection laws, and other applicable laws and regulations. Consistent with the consumer lending industry as a whole (see \" - The consumer lending industry continues to be subjected to new laws and regulations in many jurisdictions that could restrict the consumer lending products and services we offer, impose additional compliance costs on us, render our current operations unprofitable or even prohibit our current operations\" above), our advertising and marketing materials have come under increased scrutiny. In the UK, for example, consumer credit firms are subject to the financial promotions regime set out in the FSMA (Financial Promotions) Order 2005 and specific rules in the CONC, part 3, such as the inclusion of a risk warning on all advertising materials. The FCA has also decided to adopt certain elements of industry codes as FCA rules on a case by case basis. Our advertising and marketing materials in the UK are subject to review and regulation both by the FCA and the Advertising Standards Authority. We have in some cases been required to withdraw, amend or add disclosures to such materials, or have done so voluntarily in response to inquiries or complaints. Going forward, there can be no guarantee that we will be able to advertise and market our business in the UK or elsewhere in a manner we consider effective. Any inability to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. 57. The regulatory landscape in which we operate is continually changing due to new CFPB rules, regulations and interpretations, as well as various legal actions that have been brought against others in marketplace lending, including several lawsuits that have sought to re-characterize certain loans made by federally insured banks as loans made by third parties. If litigation on similar theories were brought against us when we work with a federally insured bank that makes loans, rather than making loans ourselves and were such an action to be successful, we could be subject to state usury limits and/or state licensing requirements, in addition to the state consumer protection laws to which we are already subject, in a greater number of states, loans in such states could be deemed void and unenforceable, and we could be subject to substantial penalties in connection with such loans.. The case law involving whether an originating lender, on the one hand, or third-parties, on the other hand, are the \"true lenders\" of a loan is still developing and courts have come to different conclusions and applied different analyses. The determination of whether a third-party service provider is the \"true lender\" is significant because third-parties risk having the loans they service becoming subject to a consumer's state usury limits. A number of federal courts that have opined on the \"true lender\" issue have looked to who is the lender identified on the borrower's loan documents. A number of state courts and at least one federal district court have considered a number of other factors when analyzing whether the originating lender or a third party is the \"true lender,\" including looking at the economics of the transaction to determine, among other things, who has the predominant economic interest in the loan being made. If we were re-characterized as a \"true lender\" with respect to Elastic, or Rise in Ohio or Texas, loans could be deemed to be void and unenforceable in some states, the right to collect finance charges could be affected, and we could be subject to fines and penalties from state and federal regulatory agencies as well as claims by borrowers, including class actions by private plaintiffs. Even if we were not required to change our business practices to comply with applicable state laws and regulations or cease doing business in some states, we could be required to register or obtain lending licenses or other regulatory approvals that could impose a substantial cost on us. If Republic Bank or the CSO lenders in Ohio or Texas were subject to such a lawsuit, they may elect to terminate their relationship with us voluntarily or at the direction of their regulators, and if they lost the lawsuit, they could be forced to modify or terminate the programs.. On August 31, 2016, the United States District Court for the Central District of California ruled in CFPB v. CashCall, Inc. et. al. that CashCall was the \"true lender\" and consequently was engaged in deceptive practices by servicing and collecting on payday loans in certain states where the interest rate on the loans exceeded the state usury limit and/or where CashCall was not a licensed lender. The CashCall case is related to a tribally related lending program. In reaching its decision, the court adopted a \"totality of the circumstances\" test to determine which party to the transaction had the \"predominant economic interest\" in the transaction. Given the fact-intensive nature of a \"totality of the circumstances\" assessment, the particular and varied details of marketplace lending and other bank partner programs may lead to different outcomes to those reached in CashCall, even in those jurisdictions where courts adopt the \"totality of the circumstances\" approach. Notably, CashCall did not address the federal preemption of state law under the National Bank Act or any other federal statute. Although CashCall is appealing the decision in the Ninth Circuit, on January 26, 2018, the District Court ordered CashCall to pay approximately $10.2 million in civil money penalties, but no consumer restitution.  In issuing the judgment, which was significantly less than the $280 million the CFPB sought in penalties and consumer restitution, the Court found that CashCall had not knowingly or recklessly violated consumer protection laws, and that the CFPB had not demonstrated that consumer restitution was an appropriate remedy.. On September 20, 2016, in Beechum v. Navient Solutions, Inc., the United States District Court for the Central District of California dismissed a class action suit alleging usurious interest rates on private student loans in violation of California law. In doing so, the court rejected the plaintiff's arguments that the defendants were the de facto \"true lenders\" of loans made by a national bank under a bank partnership arrangement with a non-bank partner. Consistent with the controlling judicial authority for challenges to the applicability of statutory or constitutional exemptions to California's usury prohibition, the court determined that \"it must look solely to the face of the transaction\" in determining whether an exemption applies and did not apply the \"totality of the circumstances\" test.. In addition to true lender challenges, a question regarding the applicability of state usury rates may arise when a loan is sold from a bank to a non-bank entity. In Madden v. Midland Funding, LLC, the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit held that the federal preemption of state usury laws did not extend to the purchaser of a loan issued by a national bank. In its brief urging the US Supreme Court to deny certiorari, the US Solicitor General, joined by the OCC, noted that the Second Circuit (Connecticut, New York and Vermont) analysis was incorrect. On remand, the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York concluded on February 27, 2017 that New York's state usury law, not Delaware's state usury law, was applicable and that the plaintiff's claims under the FDCPA and state unfair and deceptive acts and practices could proceed. To that end, the court granted Madden's motion for class certification. At this time, it is unknown whether Madden will be applied outside of the defaulted debt context in which it arose. However, given the uncertainty that Madden created, H.R. 3299 was introduced to restore the \"valid-when-made\" doctrine to allow purchasers of bank loans on the secondary market to continue to charge and collect interest at the rate that the national was permitted to charge. H.R. 3299 passed the House in February 2018 and is pending before the Senate.. 58. The facts in CashCall, Navient and Madden are not directly applicable to Elevate's business, as Elevate does not engage in practices similar to those at issue in CashCall, Navient or Madden, and Elevate does not purchase whole loans or engage in business in states within the Second Circuit. However, to the extent that either the holdings in CashCall or Madden were broadened to cover circumstances applicable to Elevate's business, or if other litigation on related theories were brought against us and were successful, or we were otherwise found to be the \"true lender,\" we could become subject to state usury limits and state licensing laws, in addition to the state consumer protection laws to which we are already subject, in a greater number of states, loans in such states could be deemed void and unenforceable, and we could be subject to substantial penalties in connection with such loans.. Recently, the Colorado Attorney General recently filed complaints in state court against marketplace lenders Marlette Funding LLC and Avant of Colorado LLC on behalf of the administrator of Colorado's Uniform Consumer Credit Code (UCCC), alleging violations of the UCCC based on \"true lender\" and loan assignment cases with respect to lending programs sponsored by WebBank and Cross River Bank, respectively.  The complaints allege that the non-bank service providers, Marlette Funding LLC and Avant of Colorado LLC - rather than WebBank and Cross River Bank, are the \"true lenders,\" and therefore subject to Colorado usury limits.  Both WebBank and Cross River Bank, responded to those actions by filing lawsuits seeking declaratory relief invalidating the administrator's lawsuits and recognizing the banks' continued legal ability to originate loans under interstate banking law.  At this time, it is unknown what the outcome of these cases will be and whether any conclusions of law would be applied outside Colorado.  Another marketplace lender, Kabbage, Inc. and its bank, Celtic Bank, have been sued in Massachusetts federal court with the defendant alleging that Kabbage, not Celtic Bank, is the \"true lender.\"  In November 2017, H.R. 4439 was introduced in Congress to eliminate the uncertainties created by courts related to \"true lender\" and reinforces existing federal law with respect to a bank's identity as the true lender of a loan originated by a bank with the assistance of a third-party service provider.. We use third-party collection agencies to assist us with debt collection. Their failure to comply with applicable debt collection regulations could subject us to fines and other liabilities, which could harm our reputation and business.. The FDCPA regulates persons who regularly collect or attempt to collect, directly or indirectly, consumer debts owed or asserted to be owed to another person. Many states impose additional requirements on debt collection communications, and some of those requirements may be more stringent than the federal requirements. Moreover, regulations governing debt collection are subject to changing interpretations that differ from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. We use third-party collections agencies to collect on debts incurred by consumers of our credit products. Regulatory changes could make it more difficult for collections agencies to effectively collect on the loans we originate.. Non-US jurisdictions also regulate debt collection. For example, in the UK, due to new rules under the CONC we have made adjustments to some of our business practices, including our collections processes, which could possibly result in lower collections on loans made by us and has resulted in a decrease in the number of new customers that we are able to approve. In addition, the concerns expressed to us by the OFT and the FCA relate in part to debt collection. We could be subject to fines, written orders or other penalties if we, or parties working on our behalf, are determined to have violated the FDCPA, the CONC or analogous state or international laws, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. Our business is subject to complex and evolving US and international laws and regulations regarding privacy, data protection, and other matters. Many of these laws and regulations are subject to change and uncertain interpretation, and could result in claims, changes to our business practices, monetary penalties, increased cost of operations, or declines in user growth or engagement, or otherwise harm our business.. We receive, transmit and store a large volume of personally identifiable information and other sensitive data from customers and potential customers. Our business is subject to a variety of laws and regulations in the US and the UK that involve user privacy issues, data protection, advertising, marketing, disclosures, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection and online payment services. The introduction of new products or expansion of our activities in certain jurisdictions may subject us to additional laws and regulations. In addition, international data protection, privacy, and other laws and regulations can be more restrictive than those in the US. US federal and state and international laws and regulations, which can be enforced by private parties or government entities, are constantly evolving and can be subject to significant change.. 59. A number of proposals are pending before federal, state, and international legislative and regulatory bodies that could impose new obligations in areas such as privacy. For example the European Union's new General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\") will replace the existing Data Protection Directive (95/46/EC) and will be implemented in the UK in May 28, 2018. The GDPR is more prescriptive than the existing regime and includes new obligations on businesses, including the requirement to appoint a data protection officer, self-report breaches, obtain express consent to data processing and provide more rights to individuals whose data they process, including the \"right to be forgotten,\" by having their records erased. Penalties for non-compliance are also significantly higher than the current maximum fine of £500,000. Under the GDPR, the maximum fine will be the higher of \20020 million or 4% of global turnover for the preceding year.. In addition, the 4th European Union's anti-money laundering directive (2015/849/EC) came into effect in June 2017 and requires changes to customer due diligence assessments and greater focus on a risk based approach.. Some countries are also considering or have enacted legislation requiring local storage and processing of data that, if applicable to the markets in which we operate, would increase the cost and complexity of delivering our services. These existing and proposed laws and regulations can be costly to comply with and can delay or impede the development of new products, the expansion into new markets, result in negative publicity, increase our operating costs, require significant management time and attention, and subject us to inquiries or investigations, claims or other liabilities, including demands that we modify or cease existing business practices or pay fines, penalties or other damages.. It is difficult to assess the likelihood of the enactment of any future legislation or the impact that such rules and regulations could have on our business. We are operating on the basis, confirmed by the UK government and the FCA, that the decision of the UK to leave the European Union will not affect the implementation of the new European Union directives on data protection and anti-money laundering as outlined above.. The use of personal data in credit underwriting is highly regulated.. In the US the FCRA regulates the collection, dissemination and use of consumer information, including consumer credit information. Compliance with the FCRA and related laws and regulations concerning consumer reports has recently been under regulatory scrutiny. The FCRA requires us to provide a Notice of Adverse Action to a loan applicant when we deny an application for credit, which, among other things, informs the applicant of the action taken regarding the credit application and the specific reasons for the denial of credit. The FCRA also requires us to promptly update any credit information reported to a consumer reporting agency about a consumer and to allow a process by which consumers may inquire about credit information furnished by us to a consumer reporting agency. Historically, the FTC has played a key role in the implementation, oversight, enforcement and interpretation of the FCRA. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFPB has primary supervisory, regulatory and enforcement authority of FCRA issues. Although the FTC also retains its enforcement role regarding the FCRA, it shares that role in many respects with the CFPB. The CFPB has taken a more active approach than the FTC, including with respect to regulation, enforcement and supervision of the FCRA. Changes in the regulation, enforcement or supervision of the FCRA may materially affect our business if new regulations or interpretations by the CFPB or the FTC require us to materially alter the manner in which we use personal data in our credit underwriting.. In the UK, we are currently subject to the requirements of the Data Protection Act 1998 (the \"DPA\") and are required to be fully registered as a data-controller under the DPA and comply with industry guidance published by the regulator, the Information Commissioner.  On May 28, 2018 the DPA will be replaced with the GDPR. As described above in \" - Our business is subject to complex and evolving US and international laws and regulations regarding privacy, data protection, and other matters. Many of these laws and regulations are subject to change and uncertain interpretation, and could result in claims, changes to our business practices, monetary penalties, increased cost of operations, or declines in user growth or engagement or otherwise harm our business,\" the GDPR is more prescriptive than the existing regime and includes new obligations on businesses, including the requirement to appoint a data protection officer, self-report breaches, obtain express consent to data processing and provide more rights to individuals whose data they process, including the \"right to be forgotten,\" by having their records erased. Penalties for non-compliance are also significantly higher than the current maximum fine of £500 thousand. Under the GDPR, the maximum fine will be the higher of \20020 million or 4% of global turnover for the preceding year. There are also strict rules on the use of credit reference data under the CCA regulations and the CONC. We are also subject to laws limiting the transfer of personal data from the European Economic Area to non-European Economic Area countries or territories. There are also strict rules on the instigation of electronic communications such as email, text message and telephone calls under the Privacy and Electronic Communications (EC Directive) Regulations 2003, which prohibit unsolicited direct marketing by electronic means without express consent, as well as the monitoring of devices.. The oversight of the FCRA by both the CFPB and the FTC and any related investigation or enforcement activities or our failure to comply with the DPA and GDPR may have a material adverse impact on our business, including our operations, our mode and manner of conducting business and our financial results.. 60. Judicial decisions or amendments to the Federal Arbitration Act could render the arbitration agreements we use illegal or unenforceable.. We include arbitration provisions in our consumer loan agreements. These provisions are designed to allow us to resolve any customer disputes through individual arbitration rather than in court and explicitly provide that all arbitrations will be conducted on an individual and not on a class basis. Thus, our arbitration agreements, if enforced, have the effect of shielding us from class action liability. Our arbitration agreements do not generally have any impact on regulatory enforcement proceedings. We take the position that the arbitration provisions in our consumer loan agreements, including class action waivers, are valid and enforceable; however, the enforceability of arbitration provisions is often challenged in court. If those challenges are successful, our arbitration and class action waiver provisions could be unenforceable, which could subject us to additional litigation, including additional class action litigation.. Any judicial decisions, legislation or other rules or regulations that impair our ability to enter into and enforce consumer arbitration agreements and class action waivers could significantly increase our exposure to class action litigation as well as litigation in plaintiff-friendly jurisdictions, which would be costly and could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. We use marketing affiliates to assist us and the originating lender in obtaining new customers, and if such marketing affiliates do not comply with an increasing number of applicable laws and regulations, or if our ability to use such marketing affiliates is otherwise impaired, it could adversely affect our business.. We depend in part on marketing affiliates as a source of new customers for us and, with respect to the Elastic product, for the originating lender. Our marketing affiliates place our advertisements on their websites that direct potential customers to our websites. As a result, the success of our business depends in part on the willingness and ability of marketing affiliates to provide us customer referrals at acceptable prices.. If regulatory oversight of marketing affiliates relationships is increased, through the implementation of new laws or regulations or the interpretation of existing laws or regulations, our ability to use marketing affiliates could be restricted or eliminated.. Marketing affiliates' failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations, or any changes in laws or regulations applicable to marketing affiliates relationships or changes in the interpretation or implementation of such laws or regulations, could have an adverse effect on our business and could increase negative perceptions of our business and industry. Additionally, the use of marketing affiliates could subject us to additional regulatory cost and expense. If our ability to use marketing affiliates were to be impaired, our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could be materially adversely affected.. RISKS RELATED TO THE SECURITIES MARKETS AND OWNERSHIP OF OUR COMMON STOCK. The price of our common stock may be volatile and the value of your investment could decline.. Technology stocks have historically experienced high levels of volatility. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially depending on many factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be related to our operating performance. These fluctuations could cause you to lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. Factors that could cause fluctuations in the trading price of our common stock include the following:. • announcements of new products, services or technologies, relationships with strategic partners, acquisitions or of the termination of, or material changes to, material agreements or of other events by us or our competitors;. • changes in economic conditions;. • changes in prevailing interest rates;. • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time;. • significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of technology companies in general and of companies in the financial services industry;. • fluctuations in the trading volume of our shares or the size of our public float;. • actual or anticipated changes in our operating results or fluctuations in our operating results;. • quarterly fluctuations in demand for our loans;. • whether our operating results meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors;. 61. • actual or anticipated changes in the expectations of investors or securities analysts;. • regulatory developments in the US, foreign countries or both and our ability to comply with applicable regulations;. • material litigation, including class action law suits;. • major catastrophic events;. • sales of large blocks of our stock;. • entry into, modification of or termination of a material agreement; or. • departures of key personnel or directors.. In addition, if the market for technology and financial services stocks or the stock market in general experiences loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, operating results or financial condition. The trading price of our common stock might also decline in reaction to events that affect other companies in our industry even if these events do not directly affect us. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. If our stock price is volatile, we may become the target of securities litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources from our business. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public markets, or the perception that they might occur, could reduce the price that our common stock might otherwise attain and may dilute your voting power and your ownership interest in us.. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and may make it more difficult for you to sell your common stock at a time and price that you deem appropriate.. In addition, the holders of an aggregate of 14,098,519 shares of our common stock associated with the conversion of preferred shares, or their permitted transferees, have rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering the sale of their shares or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. We have also registered the offer and sale of all shares of common stock that we may issue under our equity compensation plans.. We may issue our shares of common stock or securities convertible into our common stock from time to time in connection with a financing, acquisition, investments or otherwise. Any such issuance could result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders and cause the trading price of our common stock to decline.. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources, divert management's attention and affect our ability to attract and retain qualified board members.. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the NYSE listing standards and other applicable securities rules and regulations. Compliance with these rules and regulations increases our legal and financial compliance costs, makes some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly, and increases demand on our systems and resources, particularly after we are no longer an \"emerging growth company\" as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act (the \"JOBS Act.\"). Among other things, the Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and operating results and maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. In order to maintain and, if required, improve our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting to meet this standard, significant resources and management oversight may be required. As a result, management's attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could harm our business and operating results.. 62. In addition, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure are creating uncertainty for public companies, increasing legal and financial compliance costs and making some activities more time consuming. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expense and a diversion of management's time and attention from revenues-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be harmed.. However, for so long as we remain an \"emerging growth company\" as defined in the JOBS Act, we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various requirements that are applicable to public companies that are not \"emerging growth companies,\" including not being required to comply with the independent auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We may take advantage of these exemptions until we are no longer an \"emerging growth company.\". We will cease to be an \"emerging growth company\" upon the earliest of: (i) the first fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of the completion of our IPO, (ii) the first fiscal year after our annual gross revenues are $1.07 billion or more, (iii) the date on which we have, during the previous three-year period, issued more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt securities, and (iv) as of the end of any fiscal year in which the market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates exceeded $700 million as of the end of the second quarter of that fiscal year.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research reports about our business, our share price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock, to some extent, depends on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. We do not have any control over these analysts. If one or more of the analysts who cover us should downgrade our shares or change their opinion of our shares, our share price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts should cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause our share price or trading volume to decline.. We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future.. We have never declared or paid any dividends on our common stock. We intend to retain any earnings to finance the operation and expansion of our business, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the future. In addition, pursuant to our financing agreement, we are prohibited from paying cash dividends without the prior consent of VPC. As a result, you may only receive a return on your investment in our common stock if the market price of our common stock increases.. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may delay or prevent an acquisition of our company.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us or changes in our management. The provisions, among other things:. • establish a classified Board of Directors so that not all members of our Board of Directors are elected at one time;. • permit only our Board of Directors to establish the number of directors and fill vacancies on the Board;. • provide that directors may only be removed \"for cause\" and only with the approval of two-thirds of our stockholders;. • require two-thirds approval to amend some provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws;. • authorize the issuance of \"blank check\" preferred stock that our Board of Directors could use to implement a stockholder rights plan, or a \"poison pill;\". • eliminate the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders;. • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, which will require that all stockholder actions must be taken at a stockholder meeting;. 63. • do not provide for cumulative voting; and. • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at annual stockholder meetings.. These provisions, alone or together, could delay or prevent hostile takeovers and changes in control or changes in our management.. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the \"DGCL\") which limits the ability of stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock to merge or combine with us in certain circumstances.. Any provision of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or amended and restated bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the exclusive forum for certain litigation that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware is the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed to us or our stockholders by any of our directors, officers, employees or agents, (iii) any action asserting a claim against us arising under the DGCL or (iv) any action asserting a claim against us that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine. The choice of forum provision in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation may limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud.. Ensuring that we have adequate disclosure controls and procedures, including internal controls over financial reporting, in place so that we can produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is costly and time-consuming and needs to be reevaluated frequently. We are required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the \"Sarbanes-Oxley Act\") and related rules and regulations Pursuant to Section 404, beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2018, our management will be required to report on, and, if we cease to be an emerging growth company our independent registered public accounting firm will have to attest to the effectiveness of, our internal control over financial reporting. Our management may conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective if we fail to cure any identified material weakness or otherwise. Moreover, even if our management concludes that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective. In the future, our independent registered public accounting firm may not be satisfied with our internal controls over financial reporting or the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or it may interpret the relevant requirements differently from us. In addition, during the course of the evaluation, documentation and testing of our internal controls over financial reporting, we may identify deficiencies that we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the deadline imposed by the SEC for compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Any such deficiencies may also subject us to adverse regulatory consequences. If we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls over financial reporting, as these standards may be modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may be unable to report our financial information on a timely basis, may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and may suffer adverse regulatory consequences or violations of listing standards. Any of the above could also result in a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements."
