[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our business is subject to a variety of risks, including the risks described below as well as adverse business and market conditions and risks associated with foreign operations. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or not described below which we have not determined to be material may also impair our business operations. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all other information in this report, including information contained in the \"Business,\" \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" and \"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk\" sections. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows could be adversely affected, and we may not be able to achieve our goals. Such events may cause actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results, and the trading price of our common stock could decline.. Economic downturns have led to reductions in demand for our services. Negative conditions in the credit markets may adversely impact our ability to operate our business. The level of demand from our clients for our services has been, in the past, adversely impacted by slowdowns in the industries we service, as well as in the economy in general. When the general level of economic activity has been reduced from historical levels, certain of our ultimate customers have delayed or cancelled projects or capital spending, especially with respect to more profitable private sector work, and such slowdowns adversely affect our ability to grow, reducing our revenues and profitability. A number of economic factors, including financing conditions for the industries we serve, have, in the past, adversely affected our ultimate customers and their ability or willingness to fund expenditures. General concerns about the fundamental soundness of domestic and foreign economies may cause ultimate customers to defer projects even if they. 6. Table of Contents. have credit available to them. Worsening of financial and macroeconomic conditions could have a significant adverse effect on our revenues and profitability.. Many of our clients depend on the availability of credit to help finance their capital and maintenance projects. At times, tightened availability of credit has negatively impacted the ability of existing and prospective ultimate customers to fund projects we might otherwise perform, particularly those in the more profitable private sector. As a result, our ultimate customers may defer such projects for an unknown, and perhaps lengthy, period. Any such deferrals would inhibit our growth and would adversely affect our results of operations.. In a weak economic environment, particularly in a period of restrictive credit markets, we may experience greater difficulties in collecting payments from, and negotiating change orders and/or claims with, our clients due to, among other reasons, a diminution in our ultimate customers' access to the credit markets. If clients delay in paying or fail to pay a significant amount of our outstanding receivables, or we fail to successfully negotiate a significant portion of our change orders and/or claims with clients, it could have an adverse effect on our liquidity, results of operations and financial position.. Our business has traditionally lagged recoveries in the general economy and, therefore, after an economic downtown we may not recover as quickly as the economy at large.. The loss of one or a few customers could have an adverse effect on us. A few clients have in the past and may in the future account for a significant portion of our revenues in any one year or over a period of several consecutive years. Although we have long-standing relationships with many of our significant clients, our clients may unilaterally reduce, fail to renew or terminate their contracts with us at any time. A loss of business from a significant client could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.. Our business is vulnerable to the cyclical nature of the markets in which our clients operate and is dependent upon the timing and funding of new awards. We provide construction and maintenance services to ultimate customers operating in a number of markets which have been, and we expect will continue to be, cyclical and subject to significant fluctuations due to a variety of factors beyond our control, including economic conditions and changes in client spending.. Regardless of economic or market conditions, investment decisions by our ultimate customers may vary by location or as a result of other factors like the availability of labor, relative construction costs or competitive conditions in their industries. Because we are dependent on the timing and funding of new awards, we are therefore vulnerable to changes in our clients' markets and investment decisions.. Our business may be adversely affected by significant reductions in government spending or delays or disruptions in the government appropriations process. Some of our businesses derive a significant portion of their revenues from federal, state and local governmental agencies. As a result, reduced or delayed spending by the federal government and/or state and local governments may have a material and adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Significant reductions in spending aimed at reducing federal, state or local budget deficits, the absence of a bipartisan agreement on the federal government's budget, the impact of sequestration or other changes in budget priorities could result in the deferral, delay or cancellation of projects or contracts that we might otherwise have sought to perform, personnel reductions or the closure of government facilities and offices, potentially impacting the level of demand for our services and our ability to execute, complete and receive compensation for our current contracts, or bid for and enter into new contracts with governmental agencies.. An increase in the prices of certain materials used in our businesses could adversely affect our businesses. We are exposed to market risk of increases in certain commodity prices of materials, such as copper and steel, which are used as components of supplies or materials utilized in all of our operations. We are also exposed to increases in energy prices, particularly as they relate to gasoline prices for our fleet of over 10,000 vehicles. While we believe we can increase our prices to adjust for some price increases in commodities, there can be no assurance that price increases of commodities, if they were to occur, would be recoverable. Additionally, our fixed price contracts do not allow us to adjust our prices and, as a result, increases in material or fuel costs could reduce our profitability with respect to such projects. Fluctuations in energy prices as well as in commodity prices of materials may adversely affect our customers and as a result cause them to curtail the use of our services. Prolonged volatility in the price of oil has caused some of our refinery customers to curtail or delay maintenance or capital projects. Continued volatility in the price of oil may adversely affect some of our refinery customers causing them to defer maintenance and/or capital projects performed by companies in our United States industrial services segment or delay purchases or repairs of heat exchangers that are manufactured and repaired by some of our companies.. Our industry is highly competitive. Our industry is served by numerous small, owner-operated private companies, a few public companies and several large regional companies. In addition, relatively few barriers prevent entry into most of our businesses. As a result, any organization that has adequate financial resources and access to technical expertise may become a competitor. Competition in our industry depends on numerous factors, including price. Certain of our competitors have lower overhead cost. 7. Table of Contents. structures and, therefore, are able to provide their services at lower rates than we are currently able to provide. In addition, some of our competitors have greater resources than we do. We cannot be certain that our competitors will not develop the expertise, experience and resources necessary to provide services that are superior in quality and lower in price to ours. Similarly, we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain or enhance our competitive position within our industries or maintain a customer base at current levels. We may also face competition from the in-house service organizations of existing or prospective customers, particularly with respect to building services. Many of our customers employ personnel who perform some of the same types of building services that we do. We cannot be certain that our existing or prospective customers will continue to outsource building services in the future.. We are subject to many laws and regulations, including those affecting U.S. public companies; changes to such laws and regulations may result in additional costs and impact our operations. We are committed to upholding the highest standards of corporate governance and legal and ethical compliance. We are subject to many laws and regulations, including various laws and regulations that apply specifically to U.S. public companies. These include the rules and regulations of the New York Stock Exchange, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, as well as the various regulations, standards and guidance put forth by the SEC and other governmental agencies to implement those laws. New laws, rules and regulations, or changes to existing laws or their interpretations, could create added legal and financial costs and uncertainty for us. Our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and reporting standards may increase our general and administrative expenses, divert management time and attention or limit our operational flexibility, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Many of our non-public competitors are not subject to these laws and regulations and the related costs and expenses of compliance.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 could have negative or unexpected consequences for our customers; reduced government spending may adversely affect our own business.  The long-term impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 on the general economy cannot be reliably predicted at this time and will require rule-making and interpretation in a number of areas.  To the extent that certain of our customers are negatively affected by the new tax law and/or any uncertainty around the changes in the law or how it will be enforced, they may reduce spending and defer, delay or cancel projects or contracts.  Reduced government revenues resulting from the new tax law may also lead to reduced government spending, which may negatively impact our government contracting business.. We are a decentralized company, which presents certain risks. While we believe decentralization has enhanced our growth and enabled us to remain responsive to opportunities and to our customers' needs, it necessarily places significant control and decision-making powers in the hands of local management. This presents various risks, including the risk that we may be slower or less able to identify or react to problems affecting a key business than we would in a more centralized environment.. Our business may be affected by weather conditions. Adverse weather conditions, particularly during the winter season, could impact our construction services operations as those conditions affect our ability to perform efficient work outdoors in certain regions of the United States, adversely affecting the revenues and profitability of those operations. However, the absence of snow in certain regions of the United States during the winter could also cause us to experience reduced revenues and profitability in our United States building services segment, which has meaningful snow removal operations. In addition, cooler than normal temperatures during the summer months could reduce the need for our services, particularly in our businesses that install or service air conditioning units, and result in reduced revenues and profitability during the period such unseasonal weather conditions persist. Hurricanes and other severe weather may cause our projects to be delayed or canceled by our customers.. Natural disasters, terrorist attacks and other catastrophic events could disrupt our operations and services. Natural disasters, acts of terrorism and other catastrophic events, and the actions taken by the United States and/or other governments or actors in response to such events, may result in property damage, supply disruption or economic dislocations throughout the country. Although it is not possible to predict such events or their consequences, these events could increase the volatility of our financial results due to decreased demand and unforeseen costs, with partial or no corresponding compensation from clients.. Our business may be affected by the work environment. We perform our work under a variety of conditions, including but not limited to, difficult terrain, difficult site conditions and busy urban centers where delivery of materials and availability of labor may be impacted, clean-room environments where strict procedures must be followed, and sites which may have been exposed to harsh and hazardous conditions, especially at chemical plants, refineries and other process facilities. Performing work under these conditions can negatively affect efficiency and, therefore, our profitability.. Our dependence upon fixed price contracts could adversely affect our business. We currently generate, and expect to continue to generate, a significant portion of our revenues from fixed price contracts. We must estimate the total costs of a particular project to bid for fixed price contracts. The actual cost of labor and materials, however, may vary from the costs we originally estimated. These variations, along with other risks, inherent in performing fixed price contracts, may cause actual gross profits from projects to differ from those we originally estimated and could result in reduced profitability or losses on projects. Depending upon the. 8. Table of Contents. size of a particular project, variations from the estimated contract costs can have a significant impact on our operating results for any fiscal quarter or year.. We could incur additional costs to cover certain guarantees. In some instances, we guarantee completion of a project by a specific date or price, cost savings, achievement of certain performance standards or performance of our services at a certain standard of quality. If we subsequently fail to meet such guarantees, we may be held responsible for costs resulting from such failures. Such a failure could result in our payment of liquidated or other damages. To the extent that any of these events occur, the total costs of a project could exceed the original estimated costs, and we would experience reduced profits or, in some cases, a loss.. Many of our contracts, especially our building services contracts for governmental and non-governmental entities, may be canceled on short notice, and we may be unsuccessful in replacing such contracts if they are canceled or as they are completed or expire. We could experience a decrease in revenues, net income and liquidity if any of the following occur:. • customers cancel a significant number of contracts;. • we fail to win a significant number of our existing contracts upon re-bid;. • we complete a significant number of non-recurring projects and cannot replace them with similar projects; or. • we fail to reduce operating and overhead expenses consistent with any decrease in our revenues.. We may be unsuccessful in generating internal growth. Our ability to generate internal growth will be affected by, among other factors, our ability to:. • expand the range of services offered to customers to address their evolving needs;. • attract new customers; and. • retain and/or increase the number of projects performed for existing customers.. In addition, existing and potential customers in the past have reduced, and may continue to reduce, the number or size of projects available to us because of general economic conditions or due to their inability to obtain capital or pay for services we provide. Many of the factors affecting our ability to generate internal growth are beyond our control, and we cannot be certain that our strategies will be successful or that we will be able to generate cash flow sufficient to fund our operations and to support internal growth. If we are not successful, we may not be able to achieve internal growth, expand operations or grow our business.. The departure of key personnel could disrupt our business. We depend on the continued efforts of our senior management. The loss of key personnel, or the inability to hire and retain qualified executives, could negatively impact our ability to manage our business.. We may be unable to attract and retain skilled employees. Our ability to grow and maintain productivity and profitability will be limited by our ability to employ, train and retain skilled personnel necessary to meet our requirements. We are dependent upon our project managers and field supervisors who are responsible for managing our projects, and there can be no assurance that any individual will continue in his or her capacity for any particular period of time. The loss of such qualified employees could have an adverse effect on our business. We cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain an adequate skilled labor force necessary to operate efficiently and to support our business strategy or that labor expenses will not increase as a result of a shortage in the supply of these skilled personnel. Labor shortages or increased labor costs could impair our ability to maintain our business or grow our revenues.. Our unionized workforce could adversely affect our operations, and we participate in many multiemployer union pension plans which could result in substantial liabilities being incurred. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 57% of our employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. Although the majority of these agreements prohibit strikes and work stoppages, we cannot be certain that strikes or work stoppages will not occur in the future. However, only two of our collective bargaining agreements are national or regional in scope, and not all of our collective bargaining agreements expire at the same time. Strikes or work stoppages would adversely impact our relationships with our customers and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We contribute to approximately 200 multiemployer union pension plans based upon wages paid to our union employees that could result in our being responsible for a portion of the unfunded liabilities under such plans. Our potential liability for unfunded liabilities could be material. Under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, we may become liable for our proportionate share of a multiemployer pension plan's underfunding if we cease to contribute to that pension plan or significantly reduce the employees in respect of which we make contributions to that pension plan. See Note 14 - Retirement Plans of the notes to consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional information regarding multiemployer plans.. 9. Table of Contents. Fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates impact our financial results. We have operations in the United Kingdom, which in 2017 accounted for approximately 4% of our revenues. Our reported financial position and results of operations are exposed to the effects (both positive and negative) that fluctuating exchange rates have on the process of translating the financial statements of our United Kingdom operations, which are denominated in local currencies, into the U.S. dollar.. Our failure to comply with environmental laws could result in significant liabilities. Our operations are subject to various laws, including environmental laws and regulations, among which many deal with the handling and disposal of asbestos and other hazardous or universal waste products, PCBs and fuel storage. A violation of such laws and regulations may expose us to various claims, including claims by third parties, as well as remediation costs and fines. We own and lease many facilities. Some of these facilities contain hazardous materials, such as lead and asbestos, and fuel storage tanks, which may be above or below ground. If these tanks were to leak, we could be responsible for the cost of remediation as well as potential fines. As a part of our business, we also install fuel storage tanks and are sometimes required to deal with hazardous materials, all of which may expose us to environmental liability.. In addition, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or leaks, the imposition of new clean-up requirements, or the exposure of our employees or other contractors to hazardous materials, could require us to incur significant costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could harm our financial position and results of operations, although certain of these costs might be covered by insurance. In some instances, we have obtained indemnification or covenants from third parties (including predecessors or lessors) for such clean-up and other obligations and liabilities, and we believe such indemnities and covenants are adequate to cover such obligations and liabilities. However, such third-party indemnities or covenants may not cover all of such costs or third-party indemnitors may default on their obligations. In addition, unanticipated obligations or liabilities, or future obligations and liabilities, may have a material adverse effect on our business operations. Further, we cannot be certain that we will be able to identify, or be indemnified for, all potential environmental liabilities relating to any acquired business.. Adverse resolution of litigation and other legal and regulatory proceedings may harm our operating results or financial position. From time to time, we are a party to lawsuits and other legal proceedings, most of which occur in the normal course of our business. These actions and proceedings may involve actual or threatened claims by customers and/or employees for, among other things, compensation for alleged personal injury, workers' compensation, employment discrimination, breach of contract, property damage or other general commercial disputes. In addition, we may be subject to class action claims alleging violations of the Fair Labor Standards Act and state wage and hour laws. Litigation and other legal proceedings can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations, and their outcome is inherently uncertain and difficult to accurately predict or quantify. In addition, plaintiffs in many types of actions may seek punitive damages, civil penalties, consequential damages or other losses, or injunctive or declaratory relief. An unfavorable resolution of a particular legal proceeding or claim, whether through a settlement, mediation, court judgment or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial position and cash flows, and in some cases, on our reputation or our ability to obtain projects from customers, including governmental entities. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings and Note 15 - Commitments and Contingencies of the notes to consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for more information regarding legal proceedings in which we are involved.. Opportunities within the government sector could lead to increased governmental rules and regulations applicable to us.  As a government contractor we are subject to a number of procurement rules and other regulations, any deemed violation of which could lead to fines or penalties or a loss of business. Government agencies routinely audit and investigate government contractors. Government agencies may review a contractor's performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. If government agencies determine through these audits or reviews that costs are improperly allocated to specific contracts, they will not reimburse the contractor for those costs or may require the contractor to refund previously reimbursed costs. If government agencies determine that we are engaged in improper activity, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and debarment or suspension from doing business with the government. Government contracts are also subject to renegotiation of terms by the government, termination by the government prior to the expiration of the term, and non-renewal by the government.. A material portion of our business depends on our ability to provide surety bonds. We may be unable to compete for or work on certain projects if we are not able to obtain the necessary surety bonds. Our construction contracts frequently require that we obtain from surety companies and provide to our customers payment and performance bonds as a condition to the award of such contracts. Such surety bonds secure our payment and performance obligations. Under standard terms in the surety market, surety companies issue bonds on a project-by-project basis and can decline to issue bonds at any time or require the posting of collateral as a condition to issuing any bonds. Current or future market conditions, as well as changes in our sureties' assessment of our or their own operating and financial risk, could cause our surety companies to decline to issue, or substantially reduce the amount of, bonds for our work or to increase our bonding costs. These actions can be taken on short notice. If our surety companies were to limit or eliminate our access to bonding, our alternatives would include seeking bonding capacity from other surety companies, increasing business with clients that do not require bonds and posting other forms of collateral for project performance, such as. 10. Table of Contents. letters of credit, parent company guarantees or cash. We may be unable to secure these alternatives in a timely manner, on acceptable terms, or at all. Accordingly, if we were to experience an interruption or reduction in the availability of bonding, we may be unable to compete for or work on certain projects. Increases in the costs of surety bonds could also adversely impact our profitability.. We are effectively self-insured against many potential liabilities. Although we maintain insurance policies with respect to a broad range of risks, including automobile liability, general liability, workers' compensation and employee group health, these policies do not cover all possible claims and certain of the policies are subject to large deductibles. Accordingly, we are effectively self-insured for a substantial number of actual and potential claims. In addition, if any of our insurance carriers defaulted on its obligations to provide insurance coverage by reason of its insolvency or for other reasons, our exposure to claims would increase and our profits would be adversely affected. Our estimates for unpaid claims and expenses are based on known facts, historical trends and industry averages, utilizing the assistance of an actuary. The determination of such estimated liabilities and their appropriateness are reviewed and updated at least quarterly. However, these liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to many relevant factors, the effects of which are often unknown, including the severity of an injury or damage, the determination of liability in proportion to other parties, the timeliness of reported claims, the effectiveness of our risk management and safety programs and the terms and conditions of our insurance policies. Our accruals are based upon known facts, historical trends and our reasonable estimate of future expenses, and we believe such accruals are adequate. However, unknown or changing trends, risks or circumstances, such as increases in claims, a weakening economy, increases in medical costs, changes in case law or legislation or changes in the nature of the work we perform, could render our current estimates and accruals inadequate. In such case, adjustments to our balance sheet may be required and these increased liabilities would be recorded in the period that the experience becomes known. Insurance carriers may be unwilling, in the future, to provide our current levels of coverage without a significant increase in insurance premiums and/or collateral requirements to cover our obligations to them. Increased collateral requirements may be in the form of additional letters of credit and/or cash, and an increase in collateral requirements could significantly reduce our liquidity. If insurance premiums increase, and/or if insurance claims are higher than our estimates, our profitability could be adversely affected.. We may incur liabilities or suffer negative financial impact relating to occupational, health and safety matters. Our operations are subject to extensive laws and regulations relating to the maintenance of safe conditions in the workplace. While we have invested, and will continue to invest, substantial resources in our robust occupational, health and safety programs, many of our businesses involve a high degree of operational risk, and there can be no assurance that we will avoid significant exposure. These hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and other consequential damages and could lead to suspension of operations, large damage claims and, in extreme cases, criminal liability.. Our customers seek to minimize safety risks on their sites and they frequently review the safety records of contractors during the bidding process. If our safety record were to substantially deteriorate over time, we might become ineligible to bid on certain work and our customers could cancel our contracts and/or not award us future business.. Acquisitions could adversely affect our business and results of operations. As part of our growth strategy, we acquire companies that expand, complement and/or diversify our businesses. Realization of the anticipated benefits of an acquisition will depend, among other things, upon our ability to: (a) effectively conduct due diligence on companies we propose to acquire to identify problems at these companies and (b) recognize incompatibilities or other obstacles to successful integration of the acquired business with our other operations and gain greater efficiencies and scale that will translate into reduced costs in a timely manner. However, there can be no assurance that an acquisition we may make in the future will provide the benefits anticipated when entering into the transaction. Acquisitions we have made and future acquisitions may expose us to operational challenges and risks, including the diversion of management's attention from our existing businesses, the failure to retain key personnel or customers of the acquired business and the assumption of unknown liabilities of the acquired business for which there are inadequate reserves. Our ability to sustain our growth and maintain our competitive position may be affected by our ability to identify and acquire desirable businesses and successfully integrate any business acquired.. Our results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of goodwill and other identifiable intangible asset impairments. When we acquire a business, we record an asset called \"goodwill\" equal to the excess amount paid for the business, including liabilities assumed, over the fair value of the tangible and identifiable intangible assets of the business acquired. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\") requires that all business combinations be accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting and that certain identifiable intangible assets acquired in a business combination be recognized as assets apart from goodwill. FASB Accounting Standard Codification (\"ASC\") Topic 350, \"Intangibles-Goodwill and Other\" (\"ASC 350\"), provides that goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives not be amortized, but instead be tested at least annually for impairment, and identifiable intangible assets that have finite useful lives should continue to be amortized over their useful lives and be tested for impairment whenever facts and circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be fully recoverable. ASC 350 also provides specific guidance for testing goodwill and other non-amortized identifiable intangible assets for impairment, which we test annually each October 1. ASC 350 requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions to allocate goodwill to reporting units and to determine the fair value of reporting unit net assets and liabilities. Such fair value is determined using discounted estimated future cash flows. Our development of the present value of future cash flow projections is. 11. Table of Contents. based upon assumptions and estimates by management from a review of our operating results, business plans, anticipated growth rates and margins and the weighted average cost of capital, among others. Much of the information used in assessing fair value is outside the control of management, such as interest rates, and these assumptions and estimates can change in future periods. There can be no assurance that our estimates and assumptions made for purposes of our goodwill and identifiable intangible asset impairment testing will prove to be accurate predictions of the future. If our assumptions regarding business plans or anticipated growth rates and/or margins are not achieved, or there is a rise in interest rates, we may be required to record goodwill and/or identifiable intangible asset impairment charges in future periods, whether in connection with our next annual impairment testing on October 1, 2018 or earlier, if an indicator of an impairment is present prior to the quarter in which the annual goodwill impairment test is to be performed. It is not possible at this time to determine if any such additional impairment charge would result or, if it does, whether such a charge would be material to our results of operations.. Amounts included in our backlog may not result in actual revenues or translate into profits. Many contracts are subject to cancellation or suspension on short notice at the discretion of the client, and the contracts in our backlog are subject to changes in the scope of services to be provided as well as adjustments to the costs relating to the contract.  Accordingly, there is no assurance that backlog will actually be realized. If our backlog fails to materialize, we could experience a reduction in revenues and a decline in profitability, which could result in a deterioration of our financial position and liquidity.. We recognize revenue for the majority of our construction projects based on estimates; therefore, variations of actual results from our assumptions may reduce our profitability.  In accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles,  we record revenue as work on the contract progresses. The cumulative amount of revenues recorded on a contract at a specified point in time is that percentage of total estimated revenues that costs incurred to date bear to estimated total costs. Accordingly, contract revenues and total cost estimates are reviewed and revised as the work progresses. Adjustments are reflected in contract revenues in the period when such estimates are revised. Estimates are based on management's reasonable assumptions and experience, but are only estimates. Variations of actual results from assumptions on an unusually large project or on a number of average size projects could be material. We are also required to immediately recognize the full amount of the estimated loss on a contract when estimates indicate such a loss. Such adjustments and accrued losses could result in reduced profitability, which could negatively impact our cash flow from operations.. We are increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology systems; disruption, failure or cyber-security breaches of these systems could adversely affect our business and results of operations.  We and our customers and third party providers rely on information technology systems and hardware and third party software to run critical accounting, project management and financial information systems.  We rely upon security measures, products and services to secure our information technology systems and the confidential, proprietary and sensitive information they contain. However, our information technology systems and those of our customers and third-party providers could become subject to cyber-attacks, hacking, or other intrusions, failure or damage, which could result in operational disruptions or information misappropriation, such as theft of intellectual property or inappropriate disclosure of customer data or confidential or personal information. In addition, the proper functioning of these systems may be impacted by other causes and circumstances beyond our control, including the decision by software vendors to discontinue further development, integration or long-term software maintenance support for our information systems, or hardware interruption, damage or disruption as a result of power outages, natural disasters, or computer network failures. To the extent that our information technology systems, or those of our customers or third party providers, are disabled for a long period of time, certain key business processes could be interrupted. Any such operational disruptions and/or misappropriation or inappropriate disclosure of information could result in lost or reduced revenues, negative publicity, or business delays that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. We may also be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of such system disruptions and security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such disruptions and breaches.. Our failure to comply with anti-bribery statutes such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010 could result in fines, criminal penalties and other sanctions that could have an adverse effect on our business.  The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the \"FCPA\"), the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010 (the \"Bribery Act\") and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or securing an improper advantage.  We conduct a modest amount of business in a few countries that have experienced corruption to some degree. Our policies require that all of our employees, subcontractors, vendors and agents worldwide must comply with applicable anti-bribery laws. However, there is no assurance that our policies and procedures to ensure compliance with the FCPA, the Bribery Act and similar anti-bribery laws will eliminate the possibility of liability under such laws for actions taken by our employees, agents and intermediaries. If we were found to be liable for violations under the FCPA, the Bribery Act or similar anti-bribery laws, either due to our own acts or omissions or due to the acts or omissions of others, we could incur substantial legal expenses and suffer civil and criminal penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as our reputation. In addition, whether or not such expenses, penalties or sanctions are actually incurred, the actual or alleged violation of the FCPA, Bribery Act or similar anti-bribery laws could have a negative impact on our reputation.. 12. Table of Contents. Certain provisions of our corporate governance documents could make an acquisition of us, or a substantial interest in us, more difficult. The following provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, as currently in effect, as well as Delaware law, could discourage potential proposals to acquire us, delay or prevent a change in control of us, or limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock:. • our certificate of incorporation permits our board of directors to issue \"blank check\" preferred stock and to adopt amendments to our by-laws;. • our by-laws contain restrictions regarding the right of our stockholders to nominate directors and to submit proposals to be considered at stockholder meetings;. • our certificate of incorporation and by-laws limit the right of our stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders and to act by written consent; and. • we are subject to provisions of Delaware law, which prohibit us from engaging in any of a broad range of business transactions with an \"interested stockholder\" for a period of three years following the date such stockholder becomes classified as an interested stockholder."
