[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. RISK FACTORS. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following factors, as well as other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in evaluating our Company and business. If any of the following risks occur, our business, results of operations, and financial condition may be materially adversely affected.. Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry. At any given point in time, general economic conditions may have an adverse impact on the industry sectors in which our trade shows and conferences operate, and therefore may negatively affect demand for exhibition space and attendance at our trade shows and conferences.. Our results are influenced by domestic as well as global general economic conditions because we draw exhibitors and attendees from around the world. However, we are affected to a larger degree by conditions within the individual industry sectors in which our trade shows operate. For example, the downturn in the domestic housing market that began in 2007 had a negative impact on the performance of KBIS during the period from 2008 to 2013. The longer a recession or economic downturn continues, the more likely it becomes that our customers may reduce their marketing and advertising or procurement budgets. Any material decrease in marketing or procurement budgets could reduce the demand for exhibition space or reduce attendance at our trade shows, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. The success of each of our trade shows depends on the reputation of that show's brand.. Our exhibitors and attendees primarily know us by the names of our trade shows that operate in their specific industry sector rather than by our corporate brand name, Emerald Expositions. In addition, a single brand name is sometimes used for shows that occur more than once a year; for example, the brand name \"ASD Market Week\" is used at our ASD Market Week March and ASD Market Week August shows, and the brand name Outdoor Retailer is used for both the OR Summer Market and OR Winter Market versions of the show. If the image or reputation of one or more of these shows is tarnished, it could impact the number of exhibitors and attendees attending that show or shows. A decline in one of our larger shows could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. The dates and location of a trade show can impact its profitability and prospects.. The demand for desirable dates and locations is high. Consistent with industry practice, we typically maintain multi-year non-binding reservations for dates at our trade show venues. Aside from a nominal deposit in some cases, we do not pay for these reservations, and, while they almost always entitle us to a last look before the venue is rented to someone else during the reservation period, these reservations are not binding on the facility owners until we execute a definitive contract with the owner. We typically sign contracts that guarantee the right to specific dates at venues only one or two years in advance. Therefore, our multi-year reservations may not lead to binding contracts with facility owners. Consistency in location and all other aspects of our trade shows is important to maintaining a high retention rate from year to year, and we rely on our highly loyal customer base for the success of our shows. Moving major shows to new cities, such as the planned move of Interbike from Las Vegas, Nevada to Reno, Nevada in September 2018 and the move of OR from Salt Lake City, Utah to Denver, Colorado in January 2018, can adversely affect customer behavior. Similarly, significant timing changes, such as the acceleration of OR Winter Market from January 2019 to November 2018, can also result in unanticipated customer reactions. External factors such as legislation and government policies at the local or state level, including policy related to social issues, may depress the desire of exhibitors and attendees to attend our trade shows held in certain locations. For example, our organic revenue growth in 2017 was modestly adversely impacted by certain political issues in Utah that affected exhibitor participation at our 2017 OR Summer Market show. Our inability to secure or retain desirable dates and locations for our trade shows could have a material effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. 16. Attendance at our shows could decline as a result of disruptions in global or local travel conditions, such as congestion at airports, the risk of or an actual terrorist action, adverse weather or fear of communicable diseases.. The number of attendees and exhibitors at our trade shows may be affected by a variety of factors that are outside our control. Because many attendees and exhibitors travel to our trade shows via airplane, factors that depress the ability or desire of attendees and exhibitors to travel to our trade shows, including, but not limited to, an increased frequency of flight delays or accidents, outbreaks of contagious disease or the potential for infection, increased costs associated with air travel, actual or threatened terrorist attacks, the imposition of heightened security standards or bans on visitors from particular countries outside the United States, or acts of nature, such as earthquakes, storms and other natural disasters, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. For example, during the third quarter of 2017, we experienced disruptions to ISS Orlando, Surf Expo and ICFF South Florida as a result of the impact of Hurricane Irma, and we may be forced to cancel or re-locate future trade shows in the event of natural or man-made disasters. While we are generally insured against direct losses, one or more of the factors described above could cause a long-term reduction in the willingness of exhibitors and attendees to travel to attend our trade shows, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. We may fail to accurately monitor or respond to changing market trends and adapt our trade show portfolio accordingly.. Our success depends in part upon our ability to monitor changing market trends and to adapt our trade shows, acquire existing trade shows or launch new trade shows to meet the evolving needs of existing and emerging target audiences. The process of researching, developing, launching and establishing profitability for a new trade show may lead to initial operating losses. In 2017, we launched six new events. Our efforts to adapt our trade shows, or to introduce new trade shows into our portfolio, in response to our perception of changing market trends, may not succeed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. If we fail to attract leading brands as exhibitors in, or high-quality attendees to, our trade shows, we may lose the benefit of the self-reinforcing \"network effect\" we enjoy today.. The leading brands represented by our exhibitors attract attendees who, in many cases, have authority to make purchasing decisions, or who offer other benefits (such as publicity or press coverage) by virtue of their attendance. The presence of these exhibitors and attendees creates the self-reinforcing \"network effect\" that benefits our business; however, if representatives of leading brands decide for any reason not to participate in our trade shows, the number and quality of attendees could decline, which could lead to a rapid decline in the results of one or more trade shows and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. We may face increased competition from existing trade show operators or new competitors.. Although the trade show market is highly fragmented, we currently face competition in certain of our industry sectors. Further, our high profit margins and low start-up costs could encourage new operators to enter the trade show business. Both existing and new competitors present an alternative to our product offerings, and if competition increases or others are successful in attracting away our exhibitors and attendees, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. A significant portion of our revenue is generated by our top five trade shows.. We depend on our top five trade shows to generate a significant portion of our revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2017, our top five shows were ASD Market Week March, ASD Market Week August, NY NOW Summer, NY NOW Winter and KBIS. For the year ended December 31, 2017, these shows represented 33% of our total revenues. Notwithstanding the fact that ASD Market Week and NY NOW represent multiple product categories and that all of our shows are highly diversified by customer, a significant decline in the performance or prospects of any one of these significant trade shows could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 17. We intend to continue to be highly acquisitive, and our acquisition growth strategy entails risk.. Our acquisition growth strategy entails various risks, including, among others:. •  the risks inherent in identifying desirable acquisition candidates, including management time spent away from running our core business and external costs associated with identifying such acquisition candidates;. •  the risk that we turn out to be wrong with respect to selecting and consummating what we had believed to be accretive acquisitions;. •  the risk of overpaying for a particular acquisition;. •  the risks of successfully integrating an acquisition and retaining the key employees and/or customers of acquired businesses;. •  the risks relating to potential unknown liabilities of acquired businesses;. •  the cultural, execution, currency, tax and other risks associated with any future international expansion; and. •  the risks associated with financing an acquisition, which may involve diluting our existing stockholders, reducing our liquidity or incurring additional debt, which in turn could result in increased debt service costs and/or a requirement to comply with certain financial or other covenants.. In furtherance of our strategy of growth through acquisitions, we routinely review and conduct investigations of potential acquisitions, some of which may be material. When we believe a favorable opportunity exists, we seek to enter into discussions with target shows or sellers regarding the possibility of such acquisitions. At any given time, we may be in discussions with one or more counterparties. There can be no assurances that any such negotiations will lead to definitive agreements, or if such agreements are reached, that any transactions would be consummated.. Our exhibitors may choose to use an increasing portion of their marketing and advertising budgets to fund online initiatives or otherwise reduce the amount of money they have available to spend in connection with our trade shows.. Our trade shows have high NSF renewal rates, and we expect to continue to derive the substantial majority of our revenues from selling booth space to exhibitors. Although we have not observed a decline in demand for our trade shows as a result of the increasing use of the internet and social media for advertising and marketing, the increasing influence of online marketing and any resulting reductions of the budgets our participants allocate to our trade shows could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. We may lose the services of members of our senior management team or of certain of our key full time employees and we may not be able to replace them adequately.. We benefit substantially from the leadership and experience of members of our senior management team and we depend on their continued services to successfully implement our business strategy. The loss of any member of our senior management team or other key employee could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We currently maintain key man insurance only for our CEO. We cannot be certain that we will continue to retain our executives' services, or the services of other key personnel, many of whom have significant industry experience and/or institutional knowledge. Moreover, we may not be able to attract and retain other qualified personnel. The loss of the services of senior management or other key full-time employees, or our inability to attract and retain other qualified personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. We use third-party agents whom we do not control to sell space at our trade shows, particularly to international exhibitors.. We supplement our sales employees with third-party agents, who often have deeper connections in international markets than we could have on our own. We do not have full control over these agents, and they have the potential to expose us to reputational and legal risks either through representing our company poorly, selling exhibition space at our trade shows to low quality or otherwise inappropriate exhibitors or violating certain laws or. 18. regulations including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other applicable anti-bribery laws in contravention of our policies and procedures. Our relationships with these agents are not always exclusive, and any of a number of factors could lead to a reduction or cessation of their efforts to sell exhibit space at our trade shows, potentially reducing participation at our trade shows and having a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. Changes in legislation, regulation and government policy, including as a result of U.S. presidential and congressional elections, may have a material adverse effect on our business in the future.. The presidential and congressional elections in the United States could result in significant changes in, and uncertainty with respect to, legislation, regulation and government policy. While it is not possible to predict whether and when any such changes will occur, changes at the local, state or federal level could significantly impact our business. Specific legislative and regulatory proposals discussed during and after the election that could have a material impact on us include, but are not limited to, infrastructure renewal programs; changes to immigration policy; modifications to international trade policy, including withdrawing from trade agreements; and changes to financial legislation and public company reporting requirements. In particular, changes to immigration policy could make it more difficult for some exhibitors and attendees to attend our events.. We are currently unable to predict whether policy change discussions will meaningfully change existing legislative and regulatory environments relevant for our business. To the extent that such changes have a negative impact on us, including as a result of related uncertainty, these changes may materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. Recently enacted changes to the U.S. tax laws may have a material impact on us.. On December 20, 2017, the U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate each voted to approve H.R. 1 (commonly referred to as the \"Tax Cuts and Jobs Act\") and, on December 22, 2017, the President signed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act into law.  The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act makes extensive changes to the U.S. tax laws and includes provisions that, among other things, reduce the U.S. corporate income tax rate, introduce a capital investment deduction, limit the interest deduction, limit the use of net operating losses to offset future taxable income, and make extensive changes to the U.S. international tax system, including the taxation of foreign earnings of U.S. multinational corporations. In addition, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act modifies the deductibility of certain executive officer compensation, which may limit our ability to deduct performance-based compensation, including compensation related to the exercise of options by certain executive officers. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is complex and far-reaching and we cannot predict with certainty the resulting impact its enactment will have on us.. A loss or disruption of the services from one or more of the limited number of outside contractors who specialize in decoration, facility set-up and other services in connection with our trade shows could harm our business.. We, and to a greater extent, our exhibitors, use a limited number of outside contractors for decoration, facility set-up and other services in connection with our trade shows, and we and our exhibitors rely on the availability, capability and willingness of these contractors to provide services on a timely basis and on favorable economic and other terms. Notwithstanding our long-term contracts with these contractors, many factors outside our control could harm these relationships and the availability, capability or willingness of these contractors to provide these services on acceptable terms. The partial or complete loss of these contractors, or a significant adverse change in our or our exhibitors' relationships with any of these contractors, could result in service delays, reputational damage and/or added costs that could harm our business and customer relationships to the extent we or our exhibitors are unable to replace them in a timely or cost-effective fashion, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. Some facilities where we hold our trade shows require decorators, facility set-up and other service providers to use unionized labor. Any union strikes or work stoppages could result in delays in launching or running our trade shows, reputational damage and/or added costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. 19. The industry associations that sponsor and market our trade shows could cease to do so effectively, or could be replaced or supplemented by new industry associations who do not sponsor or market our trade shows.. We often enter into long-term sponsorship agreements with industry associations whereby the industry association endorses and markets our trade show to its members, typically in exchange for a percentage of the trade show's revenue. Our success depends, in part, on our continued relationships with these industry associations and our ability to enter into similar relationships with other industry associations. Although we frequently enter into long-term agreements with these counterparties, these relationships remain subject to various risks, including, among others:. •  failure of an industry trade association to renew a sponsorship agreement upon its expiration;. •  termination of a sponsorship agreement by an industry trade association in specified circumstances;. •  the willingness, ability and effectiveness of an industry trade association to market our trade shows to its members;. •  dissolution of an industry trade association and/or the failure of a new industry trade association to support us; and. •  the ability on the part of an industry trade association to organize a trade show itself.. Any disruptions or impediments in these existing relationships, or the inability to establish a new relationship, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. Our launch of new trade shows or new initiatives with respect to current trade shows may be unsuccessful and consume significant management and financial resources.. From time to time, we launch new trade shows or new initiatives with respect to current trade shows. In 2017, we launched six new events. We may expend significant management time and start-up expenses during the development and launch of new trade shows or initiatives, and if such trade shows or initiatives are not successful or fall short of expectations, we may be adversely affected. Because we have limited resources, we must effectively manage and properly allocate and prioritize our efforts. There can be no assurance that we will be successful or, even if successful, that any resulting new trade shows or new initiatives with respect to current trade shows will achieve customer acceptance.. We do not own certain of the trade shows that we operate or certain trademarks associated with some of our shows.. Risks associated with our relationships with industry trade associations or other third-party sponsors of our events are particularly applicable in the cases of KBIS and CEDIA, which are trade shows owned by industry associations, and in the case of the JA New York trade shows and our Military trade shows, which are the trade shows in our portfolio where the show trademarks are owned by an industry association or other third party and not by us. Any material disruption to our relationship with these third parties could have a material adverse impact on the revenue stream from these trade shows.. The infringement or invalidation of proprietary rights could have an adverse effect on our business.. We rely on trademark, trade secret and copyright laws in the United States and on company policies and confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to protect our proprietary rights, including with respect to the names of our trade shows, our exhibitor and attendee contact databases and other intellectual property rights. Our confidentiality agreements may not provide adequate protection of our proprietary rights in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our proprietary information or if our proprietary information otherwise becomes known, or is independently developed, by competitors. Failure to obtain or maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property rights for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business. We rely on our trademarks, trade names and brand names to distinguish our trade shows from those of our competitors, and have registered and applied to register many of these trademarks. We cannot assure you that our trademark applications will be approved or that our federal registrations will be upheld if challenged. Third parties may oppose our applications or otherwise challenge our use of our trademarks through administrative processes or litigation. In the event that our trademarks are successfully challenged, we could be forced to rebrand our products. 20. and/or services, which could result in the loss of brand recognition and could require us to devote resources to advertising and marketing new brands. Further, we cannot assure you that competitors will not infringe our trademarks, or that we will identify all such infringements or have adequate resources to properly enforce our trademarks.. In addition, our business activities could infringe upon the proprietary rights of others, who could assert infringement claims against us. If we are forced to defend against any such claims, whether they are with or without merit or are determined in our favor, then we may face reputational damage, costly and time-consuming litigation, diversion of management's attention and resources or other adverse effects on our products and services. As a result of such a dispute, we may have to rebrand our products or services, or enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use a third party's intellectual property. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may be unavailable on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If there is a successful claim of infringement against us, we could be required to pay significant damages, enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements, or discontinue certain of our brands, any of which could adversely affect our business.. Our information technology systems, including our ERP business management system, could be disrupted.. The efficient operation of our business depends on our information technology systems. Since the Onex Acquisition, we have implemented an ERP business management system, and we recently implemented applications, including Hyperion planning software and a new customer relationship management tool. We also recently completed the transfer of our data storage functions to a new cloud storage services provider. We rely on our information technology systems and certain third-party providers to effectively manage our business data, communications, supply chain, order entry and fulfillment and other business and financial processes. Our failure to properly and efficiently implement our information technology systems, or the failure of our information technology systems to perform as we anticipate, could disrupt our business and could result in transaction errors, processing inefficiencies and the loss of revenue and customers, causing our business and results of operations to suffer. In addition, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from circumstances beyond our control, including fire, natural disasters, power outages, systems failures and viruses. While we maintain disaster recovery plans, any such damage or interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We could fail to protect certain employee or customer data.. We collect and retain certain employee and customer data, including personally identifiable information, and, in some cases, credit card data. Our various information technology systems enter, process, summarize and report such data. The integrity and protection of such data is critical to our business, and our customers and employees have an expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information. Public attention regarding the use of personal information and data transfer has increased in recent years, and the regulatory environment governing information, security and privacy laws, as well as the requirements imposed on us by the credit card industry, are increasingly demanding and continue to evolve rapidly. The changing nature of privacy laws in the U.S., the European Union and elsewhere could impact our processing of personal and sensitive information of our employees, vendors and customers. For instance, the European Union adopted a comprehensive General Data Privacy Regulation (\"GDPR\") in May 2016 that will replace the current EU Data Protection Directive and related country-specific legislation in May 2018. Maintaining compliance with applicable information security and privacy regulations could increase our operating costs and require significant management time and attention.  Failure to comply with such regulations may subject us to negative publicity, government scrutiny or remedies that may harm our business, including fines or demands that we modify or cease existing business practices. We rely on third-party vendors to host our websites, customer databases and billing system. Any errors, failures, interruptions or delays experienced in connection with these third-party technologies and information services or our own systems could negatively impact our relationships with customers, adversely affect our brands and business and expose us to third-party liabilities. We exercise limited control over these third-party vendors, which increases our vulnerability to problems with services they provide. Furthermore, a compromised data system or the intentional, inadvertent or negligent release or disclosure of data by us or our third-party providers could result in theft, loss, or fraudulent or unlawful use of customer, employee or company data, any of which could harm our reputation and/or result in costs, fines or lawsuits, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. 21. We face risks associated with event cancellations or other interruptions to our business, which the insurance we maintain may not fully cover.. We maintain business interruption, event cancellation, casualty, general commercial and umbrella and excess liability insurance, as well as policies relating to workers' compensation, director and officer insurance and property and product liability insurance. Our insurance policies may not cover all risks associated with the operation of our business and may not be sufficient to offset the costs of all losses, lost sales or increased costs experienced during business interruptions or event cancellations. For example, during the third quarter of 2017, we experienced disruptions to ISS Orlando, Surf Expo and ICFF South Florida as a result of the impact of Hurricane Irma, and we may be forced to cancel future trade shows in the event of natural or man-made disasters. In addition, many of our trade shows are held in government-owned facilities, including three that are held on military bases operated by the U.S. government. These governmental entities may have the right to exclude us from the venues, or may not give us executed venue contracts until immediately prior to a scheduled trade show. While we are insured against losses arising from event cancellations, we are not reimbursed for any property that is discarded or destroyed or that we are required to replace because our existing assets are temporarily inaccessible. Such losses could have a negative impact on our business.. Certain events can also lead to reputational harm which could have a long-term negative impact on a trade show that would not be mitigated by insurance coverage. For some risks, we may not obtain insurance if we believe the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies can increase substantially and, in some instances, certain insurance policies may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. As a result, we may not be able to renew our insurance policies or procure other desirable insurance on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Losses and liabilities from uninsured or underinsured events and delay in the payment of insurance proceeds could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We may face material litigation.. Although we are not currently subject to any litigation that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations, we may in the future become subject to litigation or claims that arise in the ordinary course of business, including from, among other things, breach of contract, defamation, libel, fraud or negligence or intellectual property infringement, as well as employment-related litigation, including claims of age discrimination, sexual harassment, gender discrimination, immigration violations, and other local, state and federal labor law violations. Litigation can be expensive, time-consuming and disruptive to normal business operations, including to our management team due to the increased time and resources required to respond to and address the litigation. An unfavorable outcome with respect to any particular matter or costs related to the settlement of any such matter could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. We may be unable to fully utilize the benefits associated with our favorable tax attributes.. Our favorable tax attributes include amortization of intangibles resulting primarily from our historical acquisitions. If we generate taxable income in the future, we may be able to utilize our amortization expense to offset future federal income tax liabilities. We expect amortization expense relating to recent acquisitions will be available to offset cash taxes on an aggregate of approximately $503.6 million of income over the next 15 years. To the extent possible, we will structure our operating activities to minimize our income tax liabilities. However, there can be no assurance we will be able to reduce it to a specified level.. Risks Relating to our Indebtedness. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and limit our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations.. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2017, we had $562.2 million of borrowings outstanding under the Amended and Restated Term Loan Facility, with $149.1 million in additional borrowing capacity under the Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility (as defined below) (after giving effect to $0.9 million of outstanding letters of credit).. 22. Our high level of indebtedness could have important consequences to us, including:. •  making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt;. •  limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions or other general corporate requirements;. •  requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows to be dedicated to debt service payments instead of other purposes, thereby reducing the amount of cash flows available for working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions or other general corporate purposes;. •  increasing our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions;. •  exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as borrowings under our Amended and Restated Senior Secured Credit Facilities (to the extent not hedged) bear interest at variable rates, which could further adversely impact our cash flows;. •  limiting our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and the industry in which we compete;. •  restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures;. •  impairing our ability to obtain additional financing in the future;. •  placing us at a disadvantage compared to other, less leveraged competitors; and. •  increasing our cost of borrowing.. Any one of these limitations could have a material effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and ability to satisfy our obligations in respect of our outstanding debt.. Despite our current debt levels, we may incur substantially more indebtedness, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial leverage.. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur additional indebtedness in the future, which may be secured. While our Amended and Restated Senior Secured Credit Facilities limit our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to incur additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions and thus, notwithstanding these restrictions, we may still be able to incur substantially more debt. In addition, provided that no default or event of default (as defined in the Amended and Restated Senior Secured Credit Facilities) has occurred and is continuing, we have the option to add one or more incremental term loan or revolving credit facilities or increase commitments under the Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility by an aggregate amount of the sum of (X) (i) if the incremental loans are first lien loans, an amount such that the first lien net leverage ratio does not exceed 4.00:1.00, (ii) if the incremental loans are junior lien loans, an amount such that the secured net leverage ratio does not exceed 4.00:1.00, (iii) if the incremental loans are unsecured, either the total net leverage ratio does not exceed 5.00:1.00 or the fixed charge coverage ratio is not less than 2.00:1.00, or, in each case, if the incremental loans are incurred with a permitted acquisition, an amount such that the applicable leverage ratio will not increase as a result of the permitted acquisition (on a pro forma basis giving effect to the incremental loans); plus (Y) an amount equal to certain prior voluntary prepayments, loan buybacks and commitment reductions of loans under the Amended and Restated Senior Secured Credit Facilities, plus (Z) an amount equal to the greater of $160 million and 100% of Consolidated EBITDA (as defined in the Amended and Restated Senior Secured Credit Facilities). As of December 31, 2017, we had $562.2 million of borrowings outstanding under the Amended and Restated Term Loan Facility, with $149.1 million in additional borrowing capacity under the Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility (after giving effect to $0.9 million of outstanding letters of credit). To the extent that we incur additional indebtedness, the risks that we now face related to our substantial indebtedness could increase.. To service our indebtedness, we require a significant amount of cash, which depends on many factors beyond our control.. Based on our current level of operations, we believe our cash flow from operations, available cash and available borrowings under our Amended and Restated Senior Secured Credit Facilities will be adequate to meet our liquidity needs for the next twelve months. We cannot assure you, however, that our business will generate. 23. sufficient cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us under our Amended and Restated Senior Secured Credit Facilities in amounts sufficient to enable us to fund our liquidity needs.. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to satisfy our debt obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as:. •  refinancing or restructuring our debt;. •  selling assets; or. •  seeking to raise additional capital.. We cannot assure you that we would be able to enter into these alternative financing plans on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Moreover, any alternative financing plans that we may be required to undertake would still not guarantee that we would be able to meet our debt obligations. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations, or to obtain alternative financing, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources.\". We will need to repay or refinance borrowings under our Amended and Restated Senior Secured Credit Facilities.. The Amended and Restated Term Loan Facility and the Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility are scheduled to mature in May 2024 and May 2022, respectively. As of December 31, 2017, we had $562.2 million of borrowings outstanding under the Amended and Restated Term Loan Facility, with $149.1 million in additional borrowing capacity under the Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility (after giving effect to $0.9 million of outstanding letters of credit).. Our ability to repay, refinance, replace or extend these facilities by their maturity dates will be dependent on, among other things, business conditions, our financial performance and the general condition of the financial markets. If a financial disruption were to occur at the time that we are required to repay indebtedness outstanding under our Amended and Restated Senior Secured Credit Facilities, we could be forced to undertake alternate financings, negotiate for an extension of the maturity of our Amended and Restated Senior Secured Credit Facilities or sell assets and delay capital expenditures in order to generate proceeds that could be used to repay indebtedness under our Amended and Restated Senior Secured Credit Facilities. We cannot assure you that we will be able to consummate any such transaction on terms that are commercially reasonable, on terms acceptable to us or at all.. Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly.. Borrowings under our Amended and Restated Senior Secured Credit Facilities are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. Interest rates are still low on a historical basis and are projected to rise in the future. If interest rates rise, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness will increase even though the amount borrowed may remain the same, and our net income and cash flows will correspondingly decrease. Assuming no prepayments of the Amended and Restated Term Loan Facility (under which we had $562.2 million of borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 2017) and that the $150.0 million Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility is fully drawn (and to the extent that LIBOR is in excess of the floor rate of our Amended and Restated Senior Secured Credit Facilities), each 0.125% change in interest rates would result in a $1.4 million change in annual interest expense on the indebtedness under our Amended and Restated Senior Secured Credit Facilities.. In March 2014, we entered into forward interest rate swap and floor contracts effectively converting the interest ratio on $100.0 million of borrowings under the Amended and Restated Senior Secured Credit Facilities from a floating to a fixed rate in order to reduce interest rate volatility. The contracts have effective dates of December 31, 2015. Any swaps we enter into have costs associated with them and may not fully or effectively mitigate our interest rate risk. See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Interest Rate Swap and Floor\" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional details regarding these instruments.. 24. The covenants in our Amended and Restated Senior Secured Credit Facilities impose restrictions that may limit our operating and financial flexibility.. Our Amended and Restated Senior Secured Credit Facilities contain a number of significant restrictions and covenants that limit our ability, among other things, to:. •  incur additional indebtedness;. •  pay dividends or distributions on our capital stock or repurchase or redeem our capital stock;. •  prepay, redeem or repurchase specified indebtedness;. •  create certain liens;. •  sell, transfer or otherwise convey certain assets;. •  make certain investments;. •  create dividend or other payment restrictions affecting subsidiaries;. •  engage in transactions with affiliates;. •  create unrestricted subsidiaries;. •  consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets or the assets of our subsidiaries;. •  enter into agreements containing certain prohibitions affecting us or our subsidiaries; and. •  enter into new lines of business.. In addition, the Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility contains a financial covenant requiring us to comply with a 5.50 to 1.00 total first lien net secured leverage ratio test. This financial covenant is tested quarterly if the aggregate amount of revolving loans, swingline loans and letters of credit outstanding under the Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility (net of up to $10.0 million of outstanding letters of credit) exceeds 35% of the total commitments thereunder.. These covenants could materially and adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs. Furthermore, they may restrict our ability to expand and pursue our business strategies and otherwise conduct our business. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by circumstances and events beyond our control, such as prevailing economic conditions and changes in regulations, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with such covenants. These restrictions also limit our ability to obtain future financings to withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general. In addition, complying with these covenants may also cause us to take actions that may make it more difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy and compete against companies that are not subject to such restrictions.. A breach of any covenant in our Amended and Restated Senior Secured Credit Facilities or the agreements and indentures governing any other indebtedness that we may have outstanding from time to time would result in a default under that agreement or indenture after any applicable grace periods. A default, if not waived, could result in acceleration of the debt outstanding under the agreement and in a default with respect to, and an acceleration of, the debt outstanding under other debt agreements. If that occurs, we may not be able to make all of the required payments or borrow sufficient funds to refinance such debt. Even if new financing were available at that time, it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us or terms as favorable as our current agreements. If our debt is in default for any reason, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile, and you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price you paid.. Our common stock has only been listed for public trading on the New York Stock Exchange since April 28, 2017. The trading price of our common stock may be volatile. Securities markets worldwide experience significant price and volume fluctuations. This market volatility, as well as other general economic, market or political. 25. conditions, could reduce the market price of our common shares in spite of our operating performance. The following factors, in addition to other factors described in this \"Risk Factors\" section and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock:. •  negative trends in global economic conditions and/or activity levels in our industry sectors;. •  changes in consumer needs, expectations or trends;. •  our ability to implement our business strategy;. •  our ability to complete and integrate new acquisitions;. •  actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly or annual operating results;. •  trading volume of our common stock;. •  sales of our common stock by us, our executive officers and directors or our stockholders (including certain affiliates of Onex) in the future; and. •  general economic and market conditions and overall fluctuations in the U.S. equity markets.. In addition, broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance, and factors beyond our control may cause our stock price to decline rapidly and unexpectedly. We are exposed to the impact of any global or domestic economic disruption, including any potential impact of the vote by the United Kingdom to exit the European Union, commonly referred to as \"Brexit.\" Furthermore, the stock market has experienced extreme volatility that, in some cases, has been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies.. We may be subject to securities litigation, which is expensive and could divert management attention.. Our share price may be volatile and, in the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Litigation of this type could result in substantial costs and diversion of management's attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any adverse determination in litigation could also subject us to significant liabilities.. Because Onex controls the majority of our common stock, it may control all major corporate decisions and its interests may conflict with the interests of other holders of our common stock.. As of December 31, 2017, Onex beneficially owned approximately 53.8 million shares of our common stock, representing approximately 74% of our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, for so long as Onex continues to hold the majority of our common stock, Onex will exercise a controlling influence over our business and affairs and will have the power to determine all matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions such as amendments to our certificate of incorporation, mergers and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. Onex could cause corporate actions to be taken that conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of deterring or preventing a change in control transaction that might otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders. In addition, Onex may in the future own businesses that directly compete with ours.. Our directors who have relationships with Onex may have conflicts of interest with respect to matters involving us.. Two of our seven directors are affiliated with Onex. These persons have fiduciary duties to both us and Onex. As a result, they may have real or apparent conflicts of interest on matters affecting both us and Onex, which in some circumstances may have interests adverse to ours. Onex is in the business of making or advising on investments in companies and may hold, and may from time to time in the future acquire, interests in, or provide advice to, businesses that directly or indirectly compete with certain portions of our business or that are suppliers or customers of ours. In addition, as a result of Onex' ownership interest, conflicts of interest could arise with respect to transactions involving business dealings between us and Onex including potential acquisitions of businesses or properties, the issuance of additional securities, the payment of dividends by us and other matters.  In January 2018,. 26. Onex completed its acquisition of SMG Holdings Inc. (\"SMG\"), a leading global manager of convention centers, stadiums, arenas, theaters, performing arts centers and other venues. Certain of our events are staged in SMG managed venues and one of our directors affiliated with Onex is also a director of SMG.. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the doctrine of \"corporate opportunity\" does not apply with respect to us, to Onex or certain related parties or any of our directors who are employees of Onex or its affiliates such that Onex and its affiliates are permitted to invest in competing businesses or do business with our customers. Under the amended and restated certificate of incorporation, subject to the limitations set forth therein, Onex is not required to tell us about a corporate opportunity, may pursue that opportunity for itself or it may direct that opportunity to another person without liability to our stockholders. To the extent they invest in such other businesses, Onex may have differing interests than our other stockholders.. We are a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the rules of the New York Stock Exchange and, as a result, rely on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements.. Onex owns the majority of our outstanding common stock. As a result, we are a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange corporate governance standards. A company of which more than 50% of the combined voting power is held by an individual, a group or another company is a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the rules of the New York Stock Exchange and may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange, including:. •  the requirement that a majority of our board consist of independent directors;. •  the requirement that we have a nominating and corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors;. •  the requirement that we have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors; and. •  the requirement for an annual performance evaluation of the nominating and corporate governance committee and compensation committee.. We currently rely on certain of the exemptions listed above. Accordingly, while we currently have a majority of independent directors, our nominating and corporate governance and compensation committees do not consist entirely of independent directors. The independence standards are intended to ensure that directors who meet those standards are free of any conflicting interest that could influence their actions as directors. Accordingly, our shareholders will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange. In addition, Rule 10C-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the \"Exchange Act\"), as adopted by the national securities exchanges, requires, among other things, that:. •  compensation committees be composed of fully independent directors, as determined pursuant to new and existing independence requirements;. •  compensation committees be explicitly charged with hiring and overseeing compensation consultants, legal counsel and other committee advisers; and. •  compensation committees are required to consider, when engaging compensation consultants, legal counsel or other advisers, certain independence factors, including factors that examine the relationship between the consultant or adviser's employer and us.. As a \"controlled company\", we are not subject to these compensation committee independence requirements, and accordingly, our shareholders will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to these compensation committee independence requirements.. 27. Taking advantage of the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to \"emerging growth companies\" may make our common stock less attractive to investors.. The Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the \"JOBS Act\") provides that, so long as a company qualifies as an \"emerging growth company,\" it will, among other things:. •  be exempt from the provisions of Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requiring that its independent registered public accounting firm provide an attestation report on the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting;. •  be exempt from the \"say on pay\" and \"say on golden parachute\" advisory vote requirements of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Customer Protection Act (the \"Dodd-Frank Act\");. •  be exempt from certain disclosure requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act relating to compensation of its executive officers and be permitted to omit the detailed compensation discussion and analysis from proxy statements and reports filed under the Exchange Act; and. •  be exempt from any rules that may be adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board requiring mandatory audit firm rotations or a supplement to the auditor's report on the financial statements.. We intend to continue to take advantage of each of the exemptions described above. We have irrevocably elected not to take advantage of the extension of time to comply with new or revised financial accounting standards available under Section 107(b) of the JOBS Act. We could be an emerging growth company for up to five years after the IPO. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive if we elect to rely on these exemptions, or if taking advantage of these exemptions will result in less active trading or more volatility in the price of our common stock.. We have incurred and will continue to incur increased costs as a result of becoming a public company and in the administration of our organizational structure.. As a newly public company, we have incurred and will continue to incur significant legal, accounting, insurance and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company, including costs associated with public company reporting requirements. We also have incurred and will incur costs associated with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related rules implemented by the SEC. We have incurred and will continue to incur ongoing periodic expenses in connection with the administration of our organizational structure. The expenses incurred by public companies generally for reporting and corporate governance purposes have been increasing. We expect these rules and regulations to increase our expenses related to insurance, legal, accounting, financial and compliance activities, as well as other expenses, and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly, although we are currently unable to estimate these costs with any degree of certainty. These laws and regulations could also make it more difficult or costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. These laws and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as our executive officers. Furthermore, if we are unable to satisfy our obligations as a public company, we could be subject to delisting of our common stock, fines, sanctions and other regulatory action and potentially civil litigation.. We previously identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. If we experience additional material weaknesses in the future or otherwise fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting in the future, our ability to prevent or detect a material misstatement in our financial statements could be adversely affected.. A \"material weakness\" is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of a company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. In the period ended June 30, 2014, our management identified a material weakness related to the calculation of deferred tax liabilities. This material weakness was remediated in 2015.. While we believe that this previously identified material weakness has been remediated, if other material weaknesses or other deficiencies arise in the future, there may be a reasonable possibility that a material. 28. misstatement of the Company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis, which could cause our reported financial results to be materially misstated and require restatement.. Failure to establish and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes- Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price.. We are required to comply with the SEC's rules implementing Sections 302 and 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which require management to certify financial and other information in our quarterly and annual reports and provide an annual management report on the effectiveness of controls over financial reporting. Though we are required to disclose changes made in our internal controls and procedures on a quarterly basis, we will not be required to make our first annual assessment of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 until the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018. However, as an emerging growth company, our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 until the earlier of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022 or the date we are no longer an emerging growth company. At such time, our independent registered public accounting firm may issue a report that is adverse in the event it is not satisfied with the level at which our controls are documented, designed or operating.. To comply with the requirements of becoming a public company, we have undertaken various actions, and will need to take additional actions, such as implementing numerous internal controls and procedures and hiring additional accounting or internal audit staff or consultants. We have hired a third-party service provider to assist us with implementation of our internal audit function. Testing and maintaining internal control can divert our management's attention from other matters that are important to the operation of our business. Additionally, when evaluating our internal control over financial reporting, we may identify material weaknesses that we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the applicable deadline imposed upon us for compliance with the requirements of Section 404. If we identify any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting or are unable to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting once we are no longer an emerging growth company, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and the market price of our common stock could be negatively affected, and we could become subject to investigations by the New York Stock Exchange, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which could require additional financial and management resources. In addition, if we fail to remedy any material weakness, our financial statements could be inaccurate and we could face restricted access to capital markets.. Future sales, or the perception of the potential for future sales, of the shares of our common stock in the public market by us or our existing stockholders could cause our stock price to fall.. As of December 31, 2017, we had 72,603,826 shares of common stock outstanding. Of these securities, approximately 18.3 million shares of common stock are freely tradable without restriction or further registration under federal securities laws. The approximately 54.3 million shares of common stock owned by our officers, directors and affiliates, as that term is defined in the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the \"Securities Act\"), are \"restricted securities\" under the Securities Act. Restricted securities may not be sold in the public market unless the sale is registered under the Securities Act or an exemption from registration is available.. Our employees, officers and directors may elect to sell shares of our common stock in the market. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could depress the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities.. In the future, we may issue securities to raise cash for acquisitions or otherwise. We may also acquire interests in other companies by using a combination of cash and our common stock or just our common stock. We may also issue securities convertible into our common stock. Any of these events may dilute your ownership interest in our company and have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock.. 29. If securities or industry analysts cease publishing research or reports about us, our business, or our market, or if they adversely change their recommendations or publish negative reports regarding our business or our stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts may publish about us, our business, our market, or our competitors. We do not have any control over these analysts and we cannot provide any assurance that analysts will cover us or provide favorable coverage. If any of the analysts who may cover us adversely change their recommendation regarding our stock, or provide more favorable relative recommendations about our competitors, our stock price could decline. If any analyst who may cover us were to cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.. We cannot assure you that we will continue to pay dividends on our common stock, and our indebtedness could limit our ability to pay dividends on our common stock.. We paid a dividend of $0.07 per share in the second, third and fourth quarters of 2017. On January 26, 2018, our board of directors approved the payment of a cash dividend of $0.07 per share for the quarter ending March 31, 2018 to holders of record of the Company's common stock. The dividend is expected to be paid on or about February 23, 2018 to holders of record of our common stock as of February 9, 2018. The payment of cash dividends in future quarters is subject to the discretion of our board of directors and our compliance with applicable law, and depending on, among other things, our results of operations, capital requirements, financial condition, contractual restrictions, restrictions in our debt agreements and in any equity securities, business prospects and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. Because we are a holding company and have no direct operations, we expect to pay dividends, if any, only from funds we receive from our subsidiaries, which may further restrict our ability to pay dividends as a result of the laws of their jurisdiction of organization, agreements of our subsidiaries or covenants under any existing and future outstanding indebtedness we or our subsidiaries incur. Our Amended and Restated Senior Secured Credit Facilities restrict our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. We expect that any future agreements governing indebtedness will contain similar restrictions. For more information, see \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Dividend Policy\" and \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Long-Term Debt.\". Our dividend policy entails certain risks and limitations, particularly with respect to our liquidity. By paying cash dividends rather than investing that cash in our business or repaying debt, we risk, among other things, slowing the pace of our growth and having insufficient cash to fund our operations or unanticipated capital expenditures or limiting our ability to incur additional borrowings.. Although we expect to continue to pay dividends according to our dividend policy, we may not pay dividends according to our policy, or at all, if, among other things, we do not have the cash necessary to pay our intended dividends. The declaration and payment of dividends will be determined at the discretion of our board of directors, acting in compliance with applicable law and contractual restrictions.. Some provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law may have anti-takeover effects that could discourage an acquisition of us by others, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management.. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws, as well as provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the \"DGCL\"), could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us or increase the cost of acquiring us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders, including in transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. Among other things, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws:. •  authorize the issuance of blank check preferred stock that our board of directors could issue in order to increase the number of outstanding shares and discourage a takeover attempt;. •  divide our board of directors into three classes with staggered three-year terms;. •  limit the ability of stockholders to remove directors to permit removals only \"for cause\" once Onex ceases to own more than 50% of all our outstanding common stock;. 30. •  prohibit our stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders once Onex ceases to own more than 50% of all our outstanding common stock;. •  prohibit stockholder action by written consent once Onex ceases to own more than 50% of all our outstanding common stock, which will require that all stockholder actions be taken at a duly called meeting of our stockholders;. •  provide that our board of directors is expressly authorized to adopt, alter, or repeal our amended and restated bylaws;. •  establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and. •  require the approval of holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding shares of common stock to amend our amended and restated bylaws and certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation if Onex ceases to own more than 50% of all our outstanding common stock.. These anti-takeover defenses could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing and cause us to take corporate actions other than those you desire.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides, subject to limited exceptions, that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the exclusive forum for substantially all disputes between us and our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or employees.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides, subject to limited exceptions, unless we consent to an alternative forum, that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware shall be the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any director, officer, stockholder, employee or agent of the Company to us or our stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim against us, or our directors, officers or other employees, arising pursuant to any provision of the DGCL, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or our amended and restated bylaws, or (iv) any action asserting a claim against us, or our directors, officers, stockholders or other employees, governed by the internal affairs doctrine. The choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors, officers and other employees. Alternatively, if a court were to find the choice of forum provision contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. Because we are a holding company with no operations of our own, we rely on dividends, distributions, and transfers of funds from our subsidiaries.. We are a holding company that conducts all of our operations through subsidiaries. Consequently, we rely on dividends or advances from our subsidiaries. The ability of such subsidiaries to pay dividends to us is subject to applicable local law and may be limited due to terms of other contractual arrangements, including our indebtedness. See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Long-Term Debt.\" Such laws and restrictions would restrict our ability to continue operations. In addition, Delaware law may impose requirements that may restrict our ability to pay dividends to holders of our common stock.. 31"
