[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.. The risk factors listed below, in addition to those set forth elsewhere in this report, could affect the business and future results of the Company. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods.. Risks Related to our Business. Our results of operations could be negatively impacted by weak economic conditions and instability in financial markets.. We believe that advertising is a discretionary business expense. Spending on advertising tends to decline disproportionately during an economic recession or downturn as compared to other types of business spending. Consequently, a downturn in the United States economy generally has an adverse effect on our advertising revenue and, therefore, our results of operations. A recession or downturn in the economy of any individual geographic market, particularly our largest market of New York, could have a significant adverse effect on us.. Even in the absence of a general recession or downturn in the economy, an individual business sector (such as the automotive industry) that tends to spend more on advertising than other sectors might be forced to reduce its advertising expenditures if that sector experiences a downturn. If that sector's spending represents a significant portion of our advertising revenues, any reduction in its advertising expenditures may affect our revenue.. Radio revenues in the markets in which we operate have been challenged and may remain so.. Radio revenues in the markets in which we operate have lagged the growth of the general United States economy.  Our market revenues, as measured by the accounting firm Miller Kaplan Arase LLP (\"Miller Kaplan\"), during the years ended February 2016, 2017 and 2018 were down 1.5%, up 1.7%, and down 0.8% respectively. During this same period, the U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis reports that U.S. current-dollar gross domestic product growth has been 3% to 4% each year. Our results of operations could be negatively impacted if radio revenue performance in the markets in which we operate continues to lag general United States economic growth.. We may lose audience share and advertising revenue to competing radio stations or other types of media.. We operate in highly competitive industries. Our radio stations compete for audiences and advertising revenue with other radio stations and station groups, as well as with other media. Shifts in population, demographics, audience tastes, consumer use of technology and forms of media and other factors beyond our control could cause us to lose market share. Any adverse change in a particular market, or adverse change in the relative market positions of the stations located in a particular market, could have a material adverse effect on our revenue or ratings, could require increased promotion or other expenses in that market, and could adversely affect our revenue in other markets. Other radio broadcasting companies may enter the markets in which we operate or may operate in the future. These companies may be larger and have more financial resources than we have. Our radio stations may not be able to maintain or increase their current audience ratings and advertising revenue in the face of such competition.. We routinely conduct market research to review the competitive position of our stations in their respective markets. If we determine that a station could improve its operating performance by serving a different demographic within its market, we may change the format of that station. Our competitors may respond to our actions by more aggressive promotions of their stations or by replacing the format we vacate, limiting our options if we do not achieve expected results with our new format.. From time to time, other stations may change their format or programming, a new station may adopt a format to compete directly with our stations for audiences and advertisers, or stations might engage in aggressive promotional campaigns. These tactics could result in lower ratings and advertising revenue or increased promotion and other expenses and, consequently,. 14. Table of Contents. lower earnings and cash flow for us. Any failure by us to respond, or to respond as quickly as our competitors, could also have an adverse effect on our business and financial performance.. Because of the competitive factors we face, we cannot assure investors that we will be able to maintain or increase our current audience ratings and advertising revenue.. Our radio operations are heavily concentrated in the New York market.. Our radio operations in New York, including the LMA fee we receive from a subsidiary of Disney, accounted for approximately 40% of our radio revenues in fiscal 2018. Our results from operations can be materially affected by decreased ratings for our stations in New York, which could result in revenue declines for us in that market.. Our radio operations lack the scale of some of our competitors, especially in the New York market.. We currently own four stations in New York, one of which is being programmed by another broadcaster under the terms of an LMA. Some of our competitors in this market have larger clusters of radio stations. Our competitors may be able to leverage their market share to extract a greater percentage of available advertising revenues in this market and may be able to realize operating efficiencies by programming multiple stations in the market. Also, given our reliance on urban formats in New York, our results from operations can be materially affected by additional urban format competition by our competitors.. Future operation of our business may require significant additional capital.. The continued development, growth and operation of our businesses may require substantial capital. In particular, our emerging technologies, including TagStation/NextRadio and Digonex are not currently profitable and need additional capital to fund their operations.  Furthermore, any acquisitions may require large amounts of capital. We intend to fund our growth, including our emerging technologies and acquisitions, if any, with cash generated from operations and asset sales, borrowings under our Credit Agreement dated June 10, 2014 (the \"2014 Credit Agreement\"), as amended, and proceeds from future issuances of debt and equity, both public and private. Currently, the 2014 Credit Agreement substantially limits our ability to make acquisitions. Our ability to raise additional debt or equity financing is subject to market conditions, our financial condition and other factors. If we cannot obtain financing on acceptable terms when needed, our results of operations, ability to fund our emerging technologies, and financial condition could be adversely impacted.. We must respond to the rapid changes in technology, services and standards that characterize our industry in order to remain competitive, and changes in technology may increase the risk of material intellectual property infringement claims.. The radio broadcasting industry is subject to rapid technological changes, evolving industry standards and the emergence of competition from new technologies and services. We cannot assure that we will have the resources to acquire new technologies or to introduce new services that could compete with these new technologies. Various media technologies and services that have been developed or introduced include:. • satellite-delivered digital audio radio service, which has resulted in subscriber-based satellite radio services with numerous niche formats;. • audio programming by cable systems, direct-broadcast satellite systems, Internet content providers and other digital audio broadcast formats;. • personal digital audio devices (e.g., audio via Wi-Fi, smartphones, iPods®, iPhones®, WiMAX, the Internet and MP3 players);. • HD Radio®, which provides multi-channel, multi-format digital radio services in the same bandwidth currently occupied by traditional AM and FM radio services; and. • low-power FM radio, which could result in additional FM radio broadcast outlets, including additional low-power FM radio signals authorized in December 2010 under the Local Community Radio Act.. New media has resulted in fragmentation in the advertising market, but we cannot predict the impact that additional competition arising from new technologies may have on the radio broadcasting industry or on our financial condition and results of operations. We also cannot ensure that our investments in HD Radio®, TagStation®, NextRadio®, the Dial ReportTM and other technologies will produce the desired returns.. A number of automakers are introducing more advanced, interactive dashboard technology including the introduction of technologies like Apple CarPlay and Google Android Auto that enable vehicle entertainment systems to more easily interface with a consumer's smartphone and include alternative audio entertainment options.. Programmatic buying, which enables an advertiser to purchase advertising inventory through an exchange or other service and bypass the traditional personal sales relationship, has become widely adopted in the purchase of digital advertising and is an emerging trend in the radio industry.  We cannot predict the impact programmatic buying may have on the radio industry or our financial condition and results of operations.. 15. Table of Contents. Additionally, technological advancements in the operation of radio stations and related businesses have increased the number of patent and other intellectual property infringement claims brought against broadcasters, including Emmis. While Emmis has not historically been subject to material patent and other intellectual property claims and takes certain steps to limit the likelihood of, and exposure to, such claims, no assurance can be given that material claims will not be asserted in the future.. Our business depends heavily on maintaining our licenses with the FCC. We could be prevented from operating a radio station if we fail to maintain its license.. The radio broadcasting industry is subject to extensive and changing regulation. The Communications Act and FCC rules and policies require FCC approval for transfers of control and assignments of FCC licenses. The filing of petitions or complaints against FCC licensees could result in the FCC delaying the grant of, or refusing to grant, its consent to the assignment of licenses to or from an FCC licensee or the transfer of control of an FCC licensee. In certain circumstances, the Communications Act and FCC rules and policies will operate to impose limitations on alien ownership and voting of our common stock. There can be no assurance that there will be no changes in the current regulatory scheme, the imposition of additional regulations or the creation of new regulatory agencies, which changes could restrict or curtail our ability to acquire, operate and dispose of stations or, in general, to compete profitably with other operators of radio and other media properties.. Each of our radio stations operates pursuant to one or more licenses issued by the FCC. Under FCC rules, radio licenses are granted for a term of eight years. Our licenses expire at various times through June 2022. Although we will apply to renew these licenses, third parties may challenge our renewal applications. While we are not aware of facts or circumstances that would prevent us from having our current licenses renewed, there can be no assurance that the licenses will be renewed or that renewals will not include conditions or qualifications that could adversely affect our business and operations. Failure to obtain the renewal of any of our broadcast licenses may have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. In addition, if we or any of our officers, directors or significant stockholders materially violates the FCC's rules and regulations or the Communications Act, is convicted of a felony or is found to have engaged in unlawful anticompetitive conduct or fraud upon another government agency, the FCC may, in response to a petition from a third party or on its own initiative, in its discretion, commence a proceeding to impose sanctions upon us which could involve the imposition of monetary fines, the revocation of our broadcast licenses or other sanctions. If the FCC were to issue an order denying a license renewal application or revoking a license, we would be required to cease operating the applicable radio station only after we had exhausted all rights to administrative and judicial review without success.. We disseminate large amounts of content to the public. An ill-conceived or mis-timed on-air statement or social media post could have a material adverse effect on our business.. The FCC's rules prohibit the broadcast of obscene material at any time and prohibit indecent material between the hours of 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. Broadcasters risk violating the prohibition on the broadcast of indecent material because of the FCC's broad definition of such material, coupled with the spontaneity of live programming.. Congress has dramatically increased the penalties for broadcasting obscene, indecent or profane programming and broadcasters can potentially face license revocation, renewal or qualification proceedings in the event that they broadcast indecent material. In addition, the FCC's heightened focus on indecency, against the broadcast industry generally, may encourage third parties to oppose our license renewal applications or applications for consent to acquire broadcast stations. As a result of these developments, we have implemented certain measures that are designed to reduce the risk of broadcasting indecent material in violation of the FCC's rules. These and other future modifications to our programming in an effort to reduce the risk of indecency violations could have an adverse effect on our competitive position.. Even statements or social media posts that do not violate the FCC's indecency rules could offend our audiences and advertisers or infringe the rights of third parties, resulting in a decline in ratings, a loss in revenues, a challenge to our broadcast licenses, or extended litigation. While we maintain insurance covering some of these risks, others are effectively uninsurable and could have a material adverse effect on our results from operations and financial condition.. Any changes in current FCC ownership regulations may negatively impact our ability to compete or otherwise harm our business operations.. The FCC is required to review all of its broadcast ownership rules every four years and to repeal or modify any of its rules that are no longer \"necessary in the public interest.\" We cannot predict the impact of these reviews on our business or their effect on our ability to acquire broadcast stations in the future or to continue to own and freely transfer stations that we have already acquired.. In 2003, we acquired a controlling interest in five FM stations and one AM station in the Austin, Texas market. Under ownership regulations released after the date of our acquisition, it appears that we would be permitted to own or control only four FM stations in the Austin market (ownership of one AM station would continue to be allowed). The new rules do not require divestiture of existing non-conforming station combinations, but do provide that such clusters may be transferred only to defined small business entities or to buyers that commit to selling any excess stations to such entities within one year.. 16. Table of Contents. Consequently, if we wish to sell our interest in the Austin stations, we will need to obtain a waiver from the current ownership regulations, or we will need to either sell to an entity that meets those FCC requirements or exclude at least one FM station from the transaction, and a station divestiture would require the consent of our minority partner.. Changes in current Federal regulations could adversely affect our business operations.. Congress and the FCC have under consideration, and may in the future consider and adopt, new laws, regulations and policies that could, directly or indirectly, affect the profitability of our broadcast stations. In particular, Congress is considering a revocation of radio's exemption from paying royalties to performing artists for use of their recordings (radio already pays a royalty to songwriters). A requirement to pay additional royalties could have an adverse effect on our business operations and financial performance.. Our business strategy and our ability to operate profitably depend on the continued services of our key employees, the loss of whom could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our ability to maintain our competitive position depends to a significant extent on the efforts and abilities of our senior management team and certain key employees. Although our executive officers are typically under employment agreements, their managerial, technical and other services would be difficult to replace if we lose the services of one or more of them or other key personnel. Our business could be seriously harmed if one of them decides to join a competitor or otherwise competes directly or indirectly against us.. Our radio stations employ or independently contract with several on-air personalities and hosts of syndicated radio programs with large and loyal audiences in their respective broadcast areas. These on-air personalities are sometimes significantly responsible for the ranking of a station and, thus, the ability of the station to sell advertising. Such on-air personalities or other key individuals may not remain with our radio stations and we may not retain their audiences, which could affect our competitive position.. Impairment losses related to our intangible assets have reduced our earnings.. We have reported significant net losses in our consolidated statement of operations in the past as a result of recording noncash impairment charges, mostly related to FCC licenses and goodwill. During the years ended February 28 (29), 2016, 2017 and 2018, we incurred impairment losses of $9.5 million, $9.8 million, and $0.3 million, respectively.  As of February 28, 2018, our FCC licenses and goodwill comprise 74% of our total assets. If events occur or circumstances change, or even if the declining radio valuation trend continues, that would reduce the fair value of the FCC licenses and goodwill below the amount reflected on the balance sheet, we may be required to recognize impairment charges, which may be material, in future periods.. We may fail to realize any benefits and incur unanticipated losses related to any acquisition.. The success of our acquisitions will depend, in part, on our ability to successfully integrate the acquired business. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of ongoing business or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with clients, customers and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Successful integration may also be hampered by any differences between the operations and corporate culture of the two organizations. If we experience difficulties with the integration process, the anticipated benefits of the acquisition may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. Finally, any cost savings that are realized may be offset by losses in revenues from the acquired business.. We may fail to consummate dispositions or complete them in a timely manner.. We regularly review our portfolio of assets and periodically dispose of assets when we believe it is appropriate to do so. We are exploring strategic alternatives with respect to WLIB-AM in New York, as well as land in northwest Indianapolis that is currently being used as a tower site, and may explore strategic alternatives with respect to other assets we currently own. We cannot ensure that an announced transaction will be consummated for any asset we may contemplate divesting.. Our operating results have been and may again be adversely affected by acts of war, terrorism and natural catastrophes.. Acts of war and terrorism against the United States, and the country's response to such acts, may negatively affect the U.S. advertising market, which could cause our advertising revenues to decline due to advertising cancellations, delays or defaults in payment for advertising time, and other factors. In addition, these events may have other negative effects on our business, the nature and duration of which we cannot predict.. For example, after the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, we decided that the public interest would be best served by the presentation of continuous commercial-free coverage of the unfolding events on our stations. This temporary policy had a material adverse effect on our advertising revenues and operating results for the month of September 2001. Future events like those of September 11, 2001 may cause us to adopt similar policies, which could have a material adverse effect on our advertising revenues and operating results.. 17. Table of Contents. Additionally, the attacks on the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001 resulted in the destruction of the transmitter facilities that were located there. Although we had no transmitter facilities located at the World Trade Center, broadcasters that had facilities located in the destroyed buildings experienced temporary disruptions in their ability to broadcast. Since we tend to locate transmission facilities for stations serving urban areas on tall buildings or other significant structures, such as the Empire State Building in New York, further terrorist attacks or other disasters could cause similar disruptions in our broadcasts in the areas affected. If these disruptions occur, we may not be able to locate adequate replacement facilities in a cost-effective or timely manner or at all. Failure to remedy disruptions caused by terrorist attacks or other disasters and any resulting degradation in signal coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Similarly, hurricanes, floods, tornadoes, earthquakes, wild fires and other natural disasters can have a material adverse effect on our operations in any given market. While we generally carry insurance covering such catastrophes, we cannot be sure that the proceeds from such insurance will be sufficient to offset the costs of rebuilding or repairing our property or the lost income.. We have significant obligations relating to our current operating leases.. In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board released Accounting Standards Update 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) (\"ASU 2016-02\"). This update requires lessees to recognize, on the balance sheet, assets and liabilities for the rights and obligations created by leases of greater than twelve months.  Leases will be classified as either finance or operating, with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition in the income statement.. As of February 28, 2018, we had operating lease commitments of approximately $43.7 million. These leases are classified as operating leases and disclosed in Note 11 to our accompanying consolidated financial statements. Currently, operating leases are classified as off-balance sheet transactions and only the current year operating lease expense is accounted for in the consolidated statements of operations as rent expense. All of our leases classified as operating leases require us to make certain estimates at the inception of the lease in order to determine whether the lease is operating or capital. ASU 2016-02 requires that substantially all operating leases be recognized as assets (the right to use the leased property) and liabilities (the present value of future lease payments). This guidance will be effective for the Company as of March 1, 2019 and requires a modified retrospective implementation. When adopted, ASU 2016-02 will result in an increase in the assets and liabilities reflected on our consolidated balance sheets.. Our business is dependent upon the proper functioning of our internal business processes and information systems and modification or interruption of such systems may disrupt our business, processes and internal controls.. The proper functioning of our internal business processes and information systems is critical to the efficient operation and management of our business. If these information technology systems fail or are interrupted, our operations may be adversely affected and operating results could be harmed. Our business processes and information systems need to be sufficiently scalable to adapt to the size of our business and may require modifications or upgrades that expose us to a number of operational risks. Our information technology systems, and those of third party providers, may also be vulnerable to damage or disruption caused by circumstances beyond our control. These include catastrophic events, power anomalies or outages, natural disasters, computer system or network failures, viruses or malware, physical or electronic intrusions, unauthorized access and cyber-attacks. Any material disruption, malfunction or similar challenges with our business processes or information systems, or disruptions or challenges relating to the transition to new processes, systems or providers, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Because of our holding company structure, we depend on our subsidiaries for cash flow, and our access to this cash flow is restricted.. We operate as a holding company. All of our radio stations and other assets are currently owned and operated by our subsidiaries. Emmis Operating Company (\"EOC\"), our wholly-owned subsidiary, is the borrower under our credit facility. All of our station and other operating subsidiaries and FCC license subsidiaries are subsidiaries of EOC. Further, we guarantee EOC's obligations under the credit facility and substantially all of EOC's assets are pledged as collateral under the credit facility. As a holding company, our only source of cash to pay our obligations, including corporate overhead expenses, is cash distributed from our subsidiaries. We currently expect that the majority of the net earnings and cash flow of our subsidiaries will be retained and used by them in their operations, including servicing their debt obligations. Even if our subsidiaries elect to make distributions to us, we cannot be assured that applicable state law and contractual restrictions, including covenants contained in our credit facility, would permit such dividends or distributions.. 18. Table of Contents. Risks Related to our Indebtedness:. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health.. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. At February 28, 2018, our total indebtedness was $142.4 million, consisting of $78.5 million under our 2014 Credit Agreement, $53.9 million of 98.7FM nonrecourse debt and $10.0 million of other nonrecourse debt. The Company expects that proceeds from the LMA in New York with a subsidiary of Disney will be sufficient to pay all debt service related to the 98.7FM nonrecourse debt. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to investors. For example, it could:. • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness;. • increase our vulnerability to generally adverse economic and industry conditions;. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes;. • result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates because some of our debt is at variable rates of interest;. • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the industries in which we operate;. • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to some of our competitors that have less debt; and. • limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our 2014 Credit Agreement, our ability to borrow additional funds or make acquisitions.. The revolving credit commitment under our 2014 Credit Agreement matures on August 31, 2018, and the term loans under our 2014 Credit Agreement mature on April 18, 2019.  Our ability to repay or refinance amounts outstanding under our 2014 Credit Agreement depends on many factors beyond our control.. We used a substantial portion of the net proceeds from the April 30, 2018 sale of our four radio stations in St. Louis, Missouri to repay amounts outstanding under our revolver and term loans. Subsequent to these repayments, we have no amounts outstanding under our revolver and $28.0 million of outstanding term loans. However, we may need to refinance some or all of the amounts outstanding under our 2014 Credit Agreement prior to their respective maturities.  While we have been successful in refinancing our credit facility debt in the past, we cannot assure investors that we will be successful in the future.. If we cannot continue to comply with the financial covenants in our debt instruments, or obtain waivers or other relief from our lenders, we may default, which could result in loss of our sources of liquidity and acceleration of our indebtedness.. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, and the instruments governing such indebtedness contain restrictive financial covenants. Our ability to comply with the covenants in our debt instruments will depend upon our future performance and various other factors, such as business, competitive, technological, legislative and regulatory factors, some of which are beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain compliance with all of these covenants. In that event, we would need to seek an amendment to our debt instruments, or would need to refinance our debt instruments. There can be no assurance that we can obtain future amendments or waivers of our debt instruments, or refinance our debt instruments and, even if so, it is likely that such relief would only last for a specified period, potentially necessitating additional amendments, waivers or refinancings in the future. In the event that we do not maintain compliance with the covenants under our debt instruments, the lenders could declare an event of default, subject to applicable notice and cure provisions, resulting in a material adverse impact on our financial position. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our debt instruments, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under our 2014 Credit Agreement to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. Our lenders under our 2014 Credit Agreement have taken security interests in substantially all of our consolidated assets. If the lenders accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we may be forced to liquidate certain assets to repay all or part of our debt instruments, and we cannot be assured that sufficient assets will remain for us to continue our business operations after we have paid all of the borrowings under our debt instruments. Our ability to liquidate assets is affected by the regulatory restrictions associated with radio stations, including FCC licensing, which may make the market for these assets less liquid and increase the chances that these assets will be liquidated at a significant loss.. Our 98.7FM  debt is not subject to these risks to the same degree as the debt under our 2014 Credit Agreement, as certain rights and payments under the 98.7FM LMA have been assigned to the holder of the 98.7FM debt, the 98.7FM debt is generally nonrecourse to the rest of Emmis, and the LMA payments have been guaranteed by Disney Enterprises, Inc.. 19. Table of Contents. The terms of our indebtedness and the indebtedness of our direct and indirect subsidiaries may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes in market conditions or to take some actions.. Our debt instruments impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions significantly limit or prohibit, among other things, our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to incur additional indebtedness, issue preferred stock, incur liens, pay dividends, enter into asset purchase or sale transactions, merge or consolidate with another company, dispose of all or substantially all of our assets or make certain other payments or investments.. These restrictions currently limit our ability to grow our business through acquisitions and could limit our ability to respond to market conditions or meet extraordinary capital needs. They also could restrict our corporate activities in other ways. These restrictions could adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs.. To service our indebtedness and other obligations, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control.. Our 2014 Credit Agreement, as amended, requires us to pay periodic interest payments. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness and to fund capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This ability to generate cash, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Our businesses might not generate sufficient cash flow from operations. We might not be able to complete future offerings, and future borrowings might not be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs.. Risks Related to our Common Stock:. One shareholder controls a majority of the voting power of our common stock, and his interest may conflict with those of other shareholders.. As of May 4, 2018, our Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer, Jeffrey H. Smulyan, beneficially owned shares representing approximately 52.6% of the outstanding combined voting power of all classes of our common stock, as calculated pursuant to Rule 13d-3 of the Exchange Act. He therefore is in a position to exercise substantial influence over the outcome of most matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders, including the election of a majority of our directors.. The difficulties associated with any attempt to gain control of our company could adversely affect the price of our Class A common stock.. Jeffrey H. Smulyan has substantial influence over the decision as to whether a change in control will occur for our company. There are also provisions contained in our articles of incorporation, by-laws and Indiana law that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of Emmis. In addition, FCC approval for transfers of control of FCC licenses and assignments of FCC licenses are required. These restrictions and limitations could adversely affect the trading price of our Class A common stock.. Our stock price and trading volume could be volatile.. Our Class A common stock is currently listed on the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation (\"Nasdaq\") Global Select Market under the symbol \"EMMS.\" The market price of our Class A common stock and our trading volume have been subject to fluctuations since our initial public offering in 1994. Accordingly, the market price of our Class A common stock could experience volatility, regardless of our operating performance.. Our Class A common stock may cease to be listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market.. Our common stock is currently listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol \"EMMS.\" We may not be able to meet the continued listing requirements of the Nasdaq Global Select Market, which require, among other things, a minimum closing price of our common stock and a minimum market capitalization. In the past, we have received written deficiency notices from The Nasdaq Stock Market advising us that the closing bid price of our Class A common stock did not meet the continued listing requirements pursuant to NASDAQ Listing Rule 5450(a)(1). In each of these instances, we were able to satisfy the requirements for continued listing. If we are unable to satisfy the requirements of the Nasdaq Global Select Market for continued listing, our common stock would be subject to delisting from that market, and we might or might not be eligible to list our shares on another Nasdaq market.. A delisting of our Class A common stock from the Nasdaq Global Select Market could negatively impact us by, among other things, reducing the liquidity and market price of our common stock. There can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with the Minimum Bid Price Rule, or any other requirement in the future.. 20. Table of Contents"
