[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K in evaluating us and our common units. Some of these risks relate principally to our business and the industry in which we operate, while others relate principally to tax matters, ownership of our common units, our preferred units and securities markets generally. If any of the following risks were actually to occur, our business, financial position or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In that case, we might not be able to pay the minimum quarterly distribution on our common units, or the trading price of our common units could decline.. Risks Related to Our Business. We may not have sufficient cash from operations following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses, including cost reimbursements to our general partner and its affiliates, to enable us to maintain or increase the distributions to holders of our common units.. We may not have sufficient available cash each quarter to enable us to maintain or increase the distributions to holders of our common units. The amount of cash we can distribute on our units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things:. • the fees and gross margins we realize with respect to the volume of natural gas, NGLs and crude oil that we handle;. • the prices of, levels of production of, and demand for natural gas, NGLs and crude oil;. • the volume of natural gas, NGLs and crude oil we gather, compress, treat, dehydrate, process, fractionate, transport and store;. • the relationship among prices for natural gas, NGLs and crude oil;. • cash calls and settlements of hedging positions;. • margin requirements on open price risk management assets and liabilities;. • the level of competition from other companies offering midstream services;. • adverse effects of governmental and environmental regulation;. • the level of our operation and maintenance expenses and general and administrative costs; and. • prevailing economic conditions.. In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, including:. • the level and timing of capital expenditures we make;. • the cost of acquisitions;. • our debt service requirements and other liabilities;. • fluctuations in working capital needs;. • our ability to borrow funds and access capital markets;. • restrictions contained in our debt agreements;. • the amount of cash reserves established by our general partner;. • distributions paid on our Series A Preferred Units; and. • other business risks affecting our cash levels.. Our contracts are subject to renewal risks.. As contracts with our existing suppliers and customers expire, we negotiate extensions or renewals of those contracts or enter into new contracts with other suppliers and customers. We may be unable to extend or renew existing contracts or enter into new contracts on favorable commercial terms, if at all. Depending on prevailing market conditions at the time of an extension or renewal, gathering and processing customers with fee based contracts may desire to enter into contracts under different fee arrangements, and gathering and processing customers with contracts that contain minimum volume commitments may desire to enter into contracts without minimum volume commitments. Likewise, our transportation and storage customers may choose not to extend or renew expiring contracts based on the economics of the related areas of production. To the extent we are unable to renew or replace our expiring contracts on terms that are favorable to us, if at all, or successfully manage our overall contract mix. 27. Table of Contents. over time, our financial position, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to unitholders could be adversely affected.. We depend on a small number of customers for a significant portion of our gathering and processing revenues and our transportation and storage revenues. The loss of, or reduction in volumes from, these customers could result in a decline in sales of our gathering and processing or transportation and storage services and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. For the year ended December 31, 2017, 57% of our gathered natural gas volumes were attributable to the affiliates of Continental, Vine, GeoSouthern, XTO and Tapstone and 51% of our transportation and storage service revenues were attributable to affiliates of CenterPoint Energy, Spire, AEP, OGE Energy and Continental. The loss of all or even a portion of the gathering and processing or transportation and storage services for any of these customers, the failure to extend or replace these contracts or the extension or replacement of these contracts on less favorable terms, as a result of competition or otherwise, could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to unitholders.. Our businesses are dependent, in part, on the drilling and production decisions of others.. Our businesses are dependent on the drilling and production of natural gas and crude oil. We have no control over the level of drilling activity in our areas of operation, or the amount of natural gas, NGL and crude oil reserves associated with wells connected to our systems. In addition, as the rate at which production from wells currently connected to our system naturally declines over time, our gross margin associated with those wells will also decline. To maintain or increase throughput levels on our gathering and transportation systems and the asset utilization rates at our natural gas processing plants, our customers must continually obtain new natural gas, NGL and crude oil supplies. The primary factors affecting our ability to obtain new supplies of natural gas, NGLs and crude oil and attract new customers to our assets are the level of successful drilling activity near our systems, our ability to compete for volumes from successful new wells and our ability to expand our capacity as needed. If we are not able to obtain new supplies of natural gas, NGLs and crude oil to replace the natural decline in volumes from existing wells, throughput on our gathering, processing, transportation and storage facilities would decline, which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to unitholders. We have no control over producers or their drilling and production decisions, which are affected by, among other things:. • the availability and cost of capital;. • prevailing and projected commodity prices, including the prices of natural gas, NGLs and crude oil;. • demand for natural gas, NGLs and crude oil;. • levels of reserves;. • geological considerations;. • environmental or other governmental regulations, including the availability of drilling permits and the regulation of hydraulic fracturing; and. • the availability of drilling rigs and other costs of production and equipment.. Fluctuations in energy prices can also greatly affect the development of new natural gas, NGL and crude oil reserves. Drilling and production activity generally decreases as commodity prices decrease. In general terms, the prices of natural gas, NGLs, crude oil and other hydrocarbon products fluctuate in response to changes in supply and demand, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control. Because of these and other factors, even if new reserves are known to exist in areas served by our assets, producers may choose not to develop those reserves. Declines in natural gas, NGL or crude oil prices can have a negative impact on exploration, development and production activity and, if sustained, could lead to decreases in such activity. Sustained low natural gas, NGL or crude oil prices could also lead producers to shut in production from their existing wells. Sustained reductions in exploration or production activity in our areas of operation could lead to further reductions in the utilization of our systems, which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to unitholders.. In addition, it may be more difficult to maintain or increase the current volumes on our gathering systems and in our processing plants, as several of the formations in the unconventional resource plays in which we operate generally have higher initial production rates and steeper production decline curves than wells in more conventional basins. Should we determine that the economics of our gathering assets do not justify the capital expenditures needed to grow or maintain volumes associated therewith, we may reduce such capital expenditures, which could cause revenues associated with these assets to decline over time.. 28. Table of Contents. Our industry is highly competitive, and increased competitive pressure could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to unitholders.. We compete with similar enterprises in our respective areas of operation. The principal elements of competition are rates, terms of service and flexibility and reliability of service. Our competitors include large energy companies that have greater financial resources and access to supplies of natural gas, NGLs and crude oil than us. Some of these competitors may expand or construct gathering, processing, transportation and storage systems that would create additional competition for the services we provide to our customers. Excess pipeline capacity in the regions served by our interstate pipelines could also increase competition and adversely impact our ability to renew or enter into new contracts with respect to our available capacity when existing contracts expire. In addition, our customers that are significant producers of natural gas or crude oil may develop their own gathering, processing, transportation and storage systems in lieu of using ours. Our ability to renew or replace existing contracts with our customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows could be adversely affected by the activities of our competitors and customers. Further, natural gas utilized as a fuel competes with other forms of energy available to end-users, including electricity, coal and liquid fuels. Increased demand for such forms of energy at the expense of natural gas could lead to a reduction in demand for natural gas gathering, processing, transportation and storage services. All of these competitive pressures could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to unitholders.. We derive a substantial portion of our gross margin from subsidiaries through which we hold a substantial portion of our assets.. We derive a substantial portion of our gross margin from, and hold a substantial portion of our assets through, our subsidiaries. As a result, we depend on distributions from our subsidiaries in order to meet our payment obligations. In general, these subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to provide us with funds for our payment obligations, whether by dividends, distributions, loans or otherwise. In addition, provisions of applicable law, such as those limiting the legal sources of dividends, limit our subsidiaries' ability to make payments or other distributions to us, and our subsidiaries could agree to contractual restrictions on their ability to make distributions.. Our right to receive any assets of any subsidiary, and therefore the right of our creditors to participate in those assets, will be effectively subordinated to the claims of that subsidiary's creditors, including trade creditors. In addition, even if we were a creditor of any subsidiary, our rights as a creditor would be subordinated to any security interest in the assets of that subsidiary and any indebtedness of the subsidiary senior to that held by us.. The amount of cash we have available for distribution to our limited partners depends primarily on our cash flow rather than on our profitability, which may prevent us from making distributions, even during periods in which we record net income.. The amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily upon our cash flow rather than on profitability. Profitability is affected by non-cash items but cash flow is not. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record losses for financial accounting purposes and may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net earnings for financial accounting purposes.. We may not be able to recover the costs of our substantial planned investment in capital improvements and additions, and the actual cost of such improvements and additions may be significantly higher than we anticipate.. Our business plan calls for investment in capital improvements and additions. For the year ending December 31, 2018, we estimate that expansion capital could range from approximately $450 million to $600 million and our maintenance capital could range from approximately $95 million to $125 million.. The construction of additions or modifications to our existing systems, and the construction of new midstream assets, involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control and may require the expenditure of significant amounts of capital, which may exceed our estimates. These projects may not be completed at the planned cost, on schedule or at all. The construction of new pipeline, gathering, treating, processing, compression or other facilities is subject to construction cost overruns due to labor costs, costs and availability of equipment and materials such as steel, labor shortages or weather or other delays, inflation or other factors, which could be material. In addition, the construction of these facilities is typically subject to the receipt of approvals and permits from various regulatory agencies. Those agencies may not approve the projects in a timely manner, if at all, or may impose restrictions or conditions on the projects that could potentially prevent a project from proceeding, lengthen its expected completion schedule and/or increase its anticipated cost. Moreover, our revenues and cash flows may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. For instance, if we expand an existing pipeline or construct a new pipeline, the construction may occur over an extended period of time, and we may not receive any material increases in revenues or cash flows until the project is completed. In addition, we may construct facilities. 29. Table of Contents. to capture anticipated future growth in production in a region in which such growth does not materialize. As a result, the new facilities may not be able to achieve our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to unitholders.. In connection with our capital investments, we may estimate, or engage a third party to estimate, potential reserves in areas to be developed prior to constructing facilities in those areas. To the extent we rely on estimates of future production in deciding to construct additions to our systems, those estimates may prove to be inaccurate either in volume or timing due to numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating future production. To the extent estimates of the volume of new production are inaccurate, new facilities may not be able to attract sufficient throughput to achieve expected investment return, which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to unitholders. To the extent estimates in the timing of new production are inaccurate, new facilities may be constructed in advance of the actual need for capacity or may not be constructed in time to accommodate volume flows, which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to unitholders. In addition, the construction of additions to existing gathering and transportation assets may require new rights-of-way prior to construction. Those rights-of-way to connect new natural gas supplies to existing gathering lines may be unavailable and we may not be able to capitalize on attractive expansion opportunities. Additionally, it may become more expensive to obtain new rights-of-way or to renew existing rights-of-way. If the cost of renewing or obtaining new rights-of-way increases, our financial position, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to unitholders could be adversely affected.. Natural gas, NGL and crude oil prices are volatile, and changes in these prices could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and our ability to make cash distributions to unitholders.. Our financial position, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to unitholders could be negatively affected by adverse changes in the prices of natural gas, NGLs and crude oil depending on factors that are beyond our control. These factors include demand for these commodities, which fluctuates with changes in market and economic conditions and other factors, including the impact of seasonality and weather, general economic conditions, the level of domestic and offshore natural gas production and consumption, the availability of imported natural gas, LNG, NGLs and crude oil, actions taken by foreign natural gas and oil producing nations, the availability of local, intrastate and interstate transportation systems, the availability and marketing of competitive fuels, the impact of energy conservation efforts, technological advances affecting energy consumption and the extent of governmental regulation and taxation.. Our natural gas processing arrangements expose us to commodity price fluctuations. In 2017, 7%, 35%, and 58% of our processing plant inlet volumes consisted of keep-whole arrangements, percent-of-proceeds or percent-of-liquids, and fee-based, respectively. If the price at which we sell natural gas or NGLs is less than the cost at which we purchase natural gas or NGLs under these arrangements, then our financial position, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to unitholders could be adversely affected.. At any given time, our overall portfolio of processing contracts may reflect a net short position in natural gas (meaning that we are a net buyer of natural gas) and a net long position in NGLs (meaning that we are a net seller of NGLs). As a result, our financial position, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to unitholders could be adversely affected to the extent the price of NGLs decreases in relation to the price of natural gas.. We are exposed to credit risks of our customers, and any material nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to unitholders.. Some of our customers may experience financial problems that could have a significant effect on their creditworthiness. Severe financial problems encountered by our customers could limit our ability to collect amounts owed to us, or to enforce performance of obligations under contractual arrangements. In addition, many of our customers finance their activities through cash flow from operations, the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity. The combination of reduction of cash flow resulting from declines in commodity prices, a reduction in borrowing bases under reserve-based credit facility and the lack of availability of debt or equity financing may result in a significant reduction of our customers' liquidity and limit their ability to make payment or perform on their obligations to us. Furthermore, some of our customers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks, which increases the risk that they may default on their obligations to us. Financial problems experienced by our customers could result in the impairment of our assets, reduction of our operating cash flows and may also reduce or curtail their future use of our products and services, which could reduce our revenues.. 30. Table of Contents. We provide certain transportation and storage services under fixed-price \"negotiated rate\" contracts that are not subject to adjustment, even if our cost to perform such services exceeds the revenues received from such contracts, and, as a result, our costs could exceed our revenues received under such contracts.. We have been authorized by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, or FERC, to provide transportation and storage services at our facilities at negotiated rates. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 44% of our aggregate contracted firm transportation capacity on EGT and MRT and 44% of our aggregate contracted firm storage capacity on EGT and MRT, was subscribed under such \"negotiated rate\" contracts. These contracts generally do not include provisions allowing for adjustment for increased costs due to inflation, pipeline safety activities or other factors that are not tied to an applicable tracking mechanism authorized by FERC. Successful recovery of any shortfall of revenue, representing the difference between \"recourse rates\" (if higher) and negotiated rates, is not assured under current FERC policies. If our costs increase and we are not able to recover any shortfall of revenue associated with our negotiated rate contracts, the cash flow realized by our systems could decrease and, therefore, the cash we have available for distribution to our unitholders could also decrease.. If third-party pipelines and other facilities interconnected to our gathering, processing or transportation facilities become partially or fully unavailable to us for any reason, our financial position, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to unitholders could be adversely affected.. We depend upon third-party pipelines to deliver natural gas to, and take natural gas from, our natural gas transportation systems and upon third-party pipelines to take crude oil from our crude oil gathering systems. We also depend on third-party facilities to transport and fractionate NGLs that are delivered to the third party at the tailgates of our processing plants. Fractionation is the separation of the heterogeneous mixture of extracted NGLs into individual components for end-use sale. For example, an outage or disruption on certain pipelines or fractionators operated by a third party could result in the shutdown of certain of our processing plants and gathering systems, and a prolonged outage or disruption could ultimately result in a reduction in the volume of natural gas we gather and NGLs we are able to produce. Additionally, we depend on third parties to provide electricity for compression at many of our facilities. Since we do not own or operate any of these third-party pipelines or other facilities, their continuing operation is not within our control. If any of these third-party pipelines or other facilities become partially or fully unavailable to us for any reason, our financial position, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to unitholders could be adversely affected.. We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and facilities are located, which could disrupt our operations.. We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and facilities have been constructed, and we are therefore subject to the possibility of more onerous terms and/or increased costs to retain necessary land use if we do not have valid rights-of-way or if such rights-of-way lapse or terminate. We may obtain the rights to construct and operate our pipelines for a specific period of time on lands owned by governmental agencies, American Indian tribes, or other third parties, including on American Indian allotments, title to which is held in trust by the United States. A loss of these rights, through our inability to renew right-of-way contracts or otherwise, could cause us to cease operations temporarily or permanently on the affected land, increase costs related to the construction and continuing operations elsewhere, and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to unitholders.. We conduct a portion of our operations through joint ventures, which subject us to additional risks that could adversely affect the success of these operations and our financial position, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to unitholders.. We conduct a portion of our operations through joint ventures with third parties, including Spectra Energy Partners, LP, DCP Midstream Partners, LP, Trans Louisiana Gas Pipeline, Inc. and Pablo Gathering LLC. We may also enter into other joint venture arrangements in the future. These third parties may have obligations that are important to the success of the joint venture, such as the obligation to pay their share of capital and other costs of the joint venture. The performance of these third-party obligations, including the ability of the third parties to satisfy their obligations under these arrangements, is outside our control. If these parties do not satisfy their obligations under these arrangements, our business may be adversely affected.. Our joint venture arrangements may involve risks not otherwise present when operating assets directly, including, for example:. • our joint venture partners may share certain approval rights over major decisions;. • our joint venture partners may not pay their share of the joint venture's obligations, leaving us liable for their shares of joint venture liabilities;. 31. Table of Contents. • we may be unable to control the amount of cash we will receive from the joint venture;. • we may incur liabilities as a result of an action taken by our joint venture partners;. • we may be required to devote significant management time to the requirements of and matters relating to the joint ventures;. • our insurance policies may not fully cover loss or damage incurred by both us and our joint venture partners in certain circumstances;. • our joint venture partners may be in a position to take actions contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives; and. • disputes between us and our joint venture partners may result in delays, litigation or operational impasses.. The risks described above or the failure to continue our joint ventures or to resolve disagreements with our joint venture partners could adversely affect our ability to transact the business that is the subject of such joint venture, which would in turn adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to unitholders. The agreements under which we formed certain joint ventures may subject us to various risks, limit the actions we may take with respect to the assets subject to the joint venture and require us to grant rights to our joint venture partners that could limit our ability to benefit fully from future positive developments. Some joint ventures require us to make significant capital expenditures. If we do not timely meet our financial commitments or otherwise do not comply with our joint venture agreements, our rights to participate, exercise operator rights or otherwise influence or benefit from the joint venture may be adversely affected. Certain of our joint venture partners may have substantially greater financial resources than we have and we may not be able to secure the funding necessary to participate in operations our joint venture partners propose, thereby reducing our ability to benefit from the joint venture.. Under certain circumstances, Spectra Energy Partners, LP could have the right to purchase an ownership interest in SESH at fair market value.. We own a 50% ownership interest in SESH. The remaining 50% ownership interests are held by Spectra Energy Partners, LP. CenterPoint Energy owns 54.1% of our common units, 100% of our Series A Preferred Units and a 40% economic interest in our general partner. Pursuant to the terms of the limited liability company agreement of SESH, as amended (the SESH LLC Agreement), if, at any time, CenterPoint Energy has a right to receive less than 50% of our distributions through its interests in us and in our general partner, or does not have the ability to exercise certain control rights, Spectra Energy Partners, LP could have the right to purchase our interest in SESH at fair market value, subject to certain exceptions.. An impairment of long-lived assets, including intangible assets, equity method investments or goodwill could reduce our earnings.. Long-lived assets, including intangible assets with finite useful lives and property, plant and equipment, are evaluated for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment of long-lived assets is recognized if the carrying amount is not recoverable and exceeds fair value. For example, we recorded aggregate impairments for our Service Star business line of $38 million during the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015, 2014 and 2013, a $25 million impairment of our Atoka assets in our gathering and processing segment during the year ended December 31, 2015, and a $12 million impairment of jurisdictional pipelines in our transportation and storage segment during the year ended December 31, 2015.. Equity method investments are evaluated for impairment when events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the investment might not be recoverable. An impairment of an equity method investment is recognized if the fair value of the investment as a whole, and not the underlying assets, has declined and the decline is other than temporary. An example of an investment that we account for under the equity method is our investment in SESH. If we enter into additional joint ventures, we could have additional equity method investments.. Goodwill is evaluated for impairment on an annual basis as well as when events or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit is below its carrying amount. An impairment of goodwill is recognized if the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value and the carrying amount of that reporting unit's good will exceeds the implied value of that goodwill. For example, we recorded impairments to goodwill of $1,087 million during the year ended December 31, 2015. As a result, there was no goodwill recorded as of December 31, 2015 and 2016. As of December 31, 2017, we have goodwill of $12 million as a result of the acquisition of Align Midstream, LLC in the fourth quarter of 2017.. 32. Table of Contents. We could experience future events or circumstances that result in an impairment of long-lived assets, including intangible assets, equity method investments, or goodwill. If we recognize an impairment, we would take an immediate non-cash charge to earnings with a correlative effect on equity and balance sheet leverage as measured by debt to total capitalization. As a result, an impairment could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and our ability to satisfy the financial ratios or other covenants under our existing or future debt agreements.. Our business involves many hazards and operational risks, some of which may not be fully covered by insurance. Insufficient insurance coverage and increased insurance costs could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and our ability to make cash distributions to unitholders.. Our operations are subject to all of the risks and hazards inherent in the gathering, processing, transportation and storage of natural gas and crude oil, including:. • damage to pipelines and plants, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, fires, earthquakes and other natural disasters, acts of terrorism and actions by third parties;. • inadvertent damage from construction, vehicles, farm and utility equipment;. • leaks of natural gas, NGLs, crude oil and other hydrocarbons or losses of natural gas, NGLs and crude oil as a result of the malfunction of equipment or facilities;. • ruptures, fires and explosions; and. • other hazards that could also result in personal injury and loss of life, pollution and suspension of operations.. These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property, plant and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage. These risks may also result in curtailment or suspension of our operations. A natural disaster or other hazard affecting the areas in which we operate could adversely affect our results of operations. We are not fully insured against all risks inherent in our business. We currently have general liability and property insurance in place to cover certain of our facilities in amounts that we consider appropriate. Such policies are subject to certain limits and deductibles. We have business interruption insurance coverage for some but not all of our operations. Insurance coverage may not be available in the future at current costs or on commercially reasonable terms, and the insurance proceeds received for any loss of, or any damage to, any of our facilities may not be sufficient to restore the loss or damage without adversely affecting our financial position, results of operations and our ability to make cash distributions to unitholders.. The use of derivative contracts by us and our subsidiaries in the normal course of business could result in financial losses that could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and our ability to make cash distributions to unitholders.. We and our subsidiaries periodically use derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forwards, to manage our commodity and financial market risks. We and our subsidiaries could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of these contracts, or should a counterparty fail to perform. In the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of these financial instruments can involve management's judgment or use of estimates. As a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of these contracts.. Failure to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce could adversely impact our results of operations.. Our business is dependent on our ability to recruit, retain and motivate employees. Certain circumstances, such as an aging workforce without appropriate replacements, a mismatch of existing skill sets to future needs, competition for skilled labor or the unavailability of contract resources may lead to operating challenges such as a lack of resources, loss of knowledge or a lengthy time period associated with skill development. Our costs, including costs for contractors to replace employees, productivity costs and safety costs, may rise. Failure to hire and adequately train replacement employees, including the transfer of significant internal historical knowledge and expertise to the new employees, or the future availability and cost of contract labor may adversely affect our ability to manage and operate our business. If we are unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, our results of operations could be negatively affected.. We have 139 employees who are participants under OGE Energy's defined benefit and retiree medical plans, who are seconded to the Partnership, subject to certain termination rights of the Partnership and OGE Energy. If seconding is terminated, employees of OGE Energy that we determine to hire are under no obligation to accept our offer of employment on the terms we provide, or at all.. 33. Table of Contents. Our ability to grow is dependent on our ability to access external financing sources.. Our operating subsidiaries distribute all of their available cash to us, and we distribute all of our available cash to our unitholders. As a result, we and our operating subsidiaries rely primarily upon external financing sources, including commercial bank borrowings and the issuance of debt and equity securities, to fund acquisitions and expansion capital expenditures. As a result, to the extent we or our operating subsidiaries are unable to finance growth externally, our and our operating subsidiaries' cash distribution policy will significantly impair our and our operating subsidiaries' ability to grow. In addition, because we and our operating subsidiaries distribute all available cash, our and our operating subsidiaries' growth may not be as fast as businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations.. To the extent we issue additional units in connection with any acquisitions or expansion capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional units may increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain or increase our per unit distribution level, which in turn may impact the available cash that we have to distribute on each unit. There are no limitations in our Partnership Agreement on our ability to issue additional units, including units ranking senior to the common units. The incurrence of additional commercial borrowings or other debt by us or our operating subsidiaries to finance our growth strategy would result in increased interest expense, which in turn may negatively impact the available cash that our operating subsidiaries have to distribute to us, and that we have to distribute to our unitholders.. We depend on access to the capital markets to fund our expansion capital expenditures. Historically, unit prices of midstream master limited partnerships have experienced periods of volatility. In addition, because our common units are yield-based securities, rising market interest rates could impact the relative attractiveness of our common units to investors. As a result of capital market volatility, we may be unable to issue equity or debt on satisfactory terms, or at all, which may limit our ability to expand our operations or make future acquisitions.. CenterPoint Energy has publicly disclosed that it is evaluating strategic alternatives for its investment in the Partnership. CenterPoint Energy has disclosed that the alternatives may include a sale of all or a portion of the interests that it owns in the Partnership and the General Partner, that if the sale option is not viable it intends to reduce its ownership in the Partnership over time through a sale of the common units it holds in the public equity markets subject to market conditions, and that there can be no assurances that these evaluations will result in any specific action. CenterPoint Energy's disclosure, as well as any sales by CenterPoint Energy of the common units it holds in the public equity markets, could have an adverse impact on the market for our common units, including our ability to issue equity on favorable terms to fund our capital needs or at all.. Our merger and acquisition activities may not be successful or may result in completed acquisitions that do not perform as anticipated, which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or future growth.. From time to time, we have made, and we intend to continue to make, acquisitions of businesses and assets. Such acquisitions involve substantial risks, including the following:. • acquired businesses or assets may not produce revenues, earnings or cash flow at anticipated levels;. • acquired businesses or assets could have environmental, permitting or other problems for which contractual protections prove inadequate;. • we may assume liabilities that were not disclosed to us, that exceed our estimates, or for which our rights to indemnification from the seller are limited;. • we may be unable to integrate acquired businesses successfully and realize anticipated economic, operational and other benefits in a timely manner, which could result in substantial costs and delays or other operational, technical or financial problems; and. • acquisitions, or the pursuit of acquisitions, could disrupt our ongoing businesses, distract management, divert resources and make it difficult to maintain our current business standards, controls and procedures.. In addition, our growth strategy includes, in part, the ability to make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms. If we are unable to make acquisitions or if our acquisitions do not perform as anticipated, our future growth may be adversely affected.. 34. Table of Contents. Our and our operating subsidiaries' debt levels may limit our and their flexibility in obtaining additional financing and in pursuing other business opportunities.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $2.6 billion of long-term debt outstanding, excluding the premiums on senior notes. In addition, as of December 31, 2017, we had $405 million outstanding under our commercial paper program and $450 million outstanding under the 2015 Term Loan Agreement. We have a $1.75 billion Revolving Credit Facility for working capital, capital expenditures and other partnership purposes, including acquisitions, of which $1.3 billion was available as of February 1, 2018. We have the ability to incur additional debt, subject to limitations in our credit facilities. The levels of our debt could have important consequences, including the following:. • the ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or the financing may not be available on favorable terms, if at all;. • a portion of cash flows will be required to make interest payments on the debt, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions;. • our debt level will make us more vulnerable to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and. • our debt level may limit our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions.. Our and our operating subsidiaries' ability to service our and their debt will depend upon, among other things, their future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions, commodity prices and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our and their control. If operating results are not sufficient to service our or our operating subsidiaries' current or future indebtedness, we and they may be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing debt, or seeking additional equity capital. These actions may not be effected on satisfactory terms, or at all. Please see Item 7. \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources.\". Our credit facilities contain operating and financial restrictions, including covenants and restrictions that may be affected by events beyond our control, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. Our credit facilities contain customary covenants that, among other things, limit our ability to:. • permit our subsidiaries to incur or guarantee additional debt;. • incur or permit to exist certain liens on assets;. • dispose of assets;. • merge or consolidate with another company or engage in a change of control;. • enter into transactions with affiliates on non-arm's length terms; and. • change the nature of our business.. Our credit facilities also require us to maintain certain financial ratios. Our ability to meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will meet those ratios. In addition, our credit facilities contain events of default customary for agreements of this nature.. Our ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in our credit facilities may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate, our ability to comply with these covenants may be impaired. If we violate any of the restrictions, covenants, ratios or tests in our credit facilities, a significant portion of our indebtedness may become immediately due and payable. In addition, our lenders' commitments to make further loans to us under the Revolving Credit Facility may be suspended or terminated. We might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. Please see Item 7. \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources.\". Affiliates of our general partner, including CenterPoint Energy and OGE Energy, may compete with us, and neither our general partner nor its affiliates have any obligation to present business opportunities to us.. Under our omnibus agreement, both CenterPoint Energy and OGE Energy are prohibited from, directly or indirectly, owning, operating, acquiring or investing in any business engaged in midstream operations located within the United States, other than. 35. Table of Contents. through us. This requirement applies to both CenterPoint Energy and OGE Energy for so long as either CenterPoint Energy or OGE Energy holds any interest in our general partner or at least 20% of our common units. However, if CenterPoint Energy or OGE Energy acquires any business with midstream operations assets that have a value in excess of $50 million (or $100 million in the aggregate with such party's other acquired midstream operations assets that have not been offered to us), the acquiring party will be required to offer to us such assets for such value. If we do not purchase such assets, the acquiring party will be free to retain and operate such midstream assets, so long as the value of the assets does not reach certain thresholds.. As a result, under the circumstances described above, CenterPoint Energy and OGE Energy have the ability to construct or acquire assets that directly compete with our assets. Pursuant to the terms of our Partnership Agreement, the doctrine of corporate opportunity, or any analogous doctrine, does not apply to our general partner or any of its affiliates, including its executive officers and directors and CenterPoint Energy and OGE Energy. Any such person or entity that becomes aware of a potential transaction, agreement, arrangement or other matter that may be an opportunity for us will not have any duty to communicate or offer such opportunity to us. Any such person or entity will not be liable to us or to any limited partner for breach of any fiduciary duty or other duty by reason of the fact that such person or entity pursues or acquires such opportunity for itself, directs such opportunity to another person or entity or does not communicate such opportunity or information to us. This may create actual and potential conflicts of interest between us and affiliates of our general partner and result in less than favorable treatment of us and our common unitholders.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, then we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential unitholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our common units.. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, prevent fraud and operate successfully as a public company. If our efforts to maintain an effective system of internal controls are not successful, we are unable to maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or we are unable to comply with our obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our operating results could be harmed or we may fail to meet our reporting obligations. Ineffective internal controls also could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our common units.. Cybersecurity attacks or other disruptions of our systems, networks and technology could adversely impact our financial position, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to unitholders.. We have become increasingly dependent on the systems, networks and technology that we use to conduct almost all aspects of our business, including the operation of our gathering, processing, transportation and storage assets, the recording of commercial transactions, and the reporting of financial information. We depend on both our own systems, networks, and technology as well as the systems, networks and technology of our vendors, customers and other business partners. Any disruption of these systems, networks and technology could disrupt the operation of our business. Disruptions can result from a variety of causes, including natural disasters, the failure of software or equipment, and manmade events, such as cybersecurity attacks or information security breaches. Cybersecurity attacks and information security breaches could result in the unauthorized use of confidential, proprietary or other information and in the disruption of our critical business functions and operations, adversely affecting our reputation, and subjecting us to possible legal claims and liability. In addition, we are not fully insured against all cybersecurity risks.. Terrorist attacks or other physical security threats could adversely affect our business.. Our gathering, processing, transportation and storage assets may be targets of terrorist activities or other physical security threats that could disrupt our ability to conduct our business. It is possible that any of these occurrences, or a combination of them, could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, and ability to make cash distributions to unitholders. In addition, any physical damage to our assets resulting from acts of terrorism may not be fully covered by our insurance.. We may be unable to obtain or renew permits necessary for our operations, which could inhibit our ability to do business.. Performance of our operations require that we obtain and maintain a number of federal and state permits, licenses and approvals with terms and conditions containing a significant number of prescriptive limits and performance standards in order to operate. All of these permits, licenses, approval limits and standards require a significant amount of monitoring, record keeping and reporting in order to demonstrate compliance with the underlying permit, license, approval limit or standard. Noncompliance or incomplete documentation of our compliance status may result in the imposition of fines, penalties and injunctive relief. A decision by a government agency to deny or delay the issuance of a new or existing material permit or other approval, or to revoke or substantially modify an existing permit or other approval, could adversely affect our ability to initiate or continue operations. 36. Table of Contents. at the affected location or facility and on our financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to unitholders.. Additionally, in order to obtain permits and renewals of permits and other approvals in the future, we may be required to prepare and present data to governmental authorities pertaining to the potential adverse impact that any proposed pipeline or processing-related activities may have on the environment, individually or in the aggregate, including on public and Indian lands. Certain approval procedures may require preparation of archaeological surveys, endangered species studies and other studies to assess the environmental impact of new sites or the expansion of existing sites. Compliance with these regulatory requirements is expensive and significantly lengthens the time required to prepare applications and to receive authorizations.. Costs of compliance with existing environmental laws and regulations are significant, and the cost of compliance with future environmental laws and regulations may adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to unitholders.. We are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, waste management, wildlife conservation, natural resources and health and safety that could, among other things, delay or increase our costs of construction, restrict or limit the output of certain facilities and/or require additional pollution control equipment and otherwise increase costs. For instance, in May 2016, the EPA issued final New Source Performance Standards governing methane emissions imposing more stringent controls on methane and volatile organic compounds emissions at new and modified oil and natural gas production, processing, storage, and transmission facilities. These rules have required changes to our operations, including the installation of new equipment to control emissions. Additionally, several states are pursuing similar measures to regulate emissions of methane from new and existing sources. There are significant capital, operating and other costs associated with compliance with these environmental statutes, rules and regulations. Future federal and state regulations relating to our gathering and processing, transmission, and storage operations remain a possibility and could result in increased compliance costs on our operations. Furthermore, if new or more stringent federal, state or local legal restrictions are adopted in areas where our oil and natural gas exploration and production customers operate, they could incur potentially significant added costs to comply with such requirements, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development, or production activities, and perhaps even be precluded from drilling wells, some or all of which could adversely affect demand for our services to those customers.. There is inherent risk of the incurrence of environmental costs and liabilities in our operations due to our handling of natural gas, NGLs, crude oil, and produced water, as well as air emissions related to our operations and historical industry operations and waste disposal practices. These matters are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local laws and regulations governing environmental protection, including the discharge of materials into the environment and the protection of plants, wildlife, and natural and cultural resources. These laws and regulations can restrict or impact our business activities in many ways, such as restricting the way we can handle or dispose of wastes or requiring remedial action to mitigate pollution conditions that may be caused by our operations or that are attributable to former operators. Joint and several strict liability may be incurred, without regard to fault, under certain of these environmental laws and regulations in connection with discharges or releases of wastes on, under or from our properties and facilities, many of which have been used for midstream activities for a number of years, oftentimes by third parties not under our control. Private parties, including the owners of the properties through which our gathering and transportation systems pass and facilities where our wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal, may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance, as well as to seek damages for non-compliance, with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage. For example, an accidental release from one of our pipelines could subject us to substantial liabilities arising from environmental cleanup and restoration costs, claims made by neighboring landowners and other third parties for personal injury and property damage and fines or penalties for related violations of environmental laws or regulations. We may be unable to recover these costs from insurance. Moreover, the possibility exists that stricter laws, regulations or enforcement policies could significantly increase compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary. Further, stricter requirements could negatively impact our customers' production and operations, resulting in less demand for our services.. Increased regulation of hydraulic fracturing and waste water injection wells could result in reductions or delays in natural gas production by our customers, which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to unitholders.. Hydraulic fracturing is common practice that is used by many of our customers to stimulate production of natural gas and crude oil from dense subsurface rock formations. The hydraulic fracturing process involves the injection of water, sand, and chemicals under pressure into targeted subsurface formations to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. Hydraulic fracturing typically is regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions. In addition, certain federal agencies have proposed additional laws and regulations to more closely regulate the hydraulic fracturing process. In past sessions, Congress has considered, but not passed, legislation to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing under the Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA). 37. Table of Contents. and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. The EPA has issued SDWA permitting guidance for hydraulic fracturing operations involving the use of diesel fuel in fracturing fluids in those states where the EPA is the permitting authority.. Some states have adopted, and other states have considered adopting, legal requirements that could impose more stringent permitting, public disclosure or well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing activities. Local government also may seek to adopt ordinances within their jurisdictions regulating the time, place and manner of drilling activities in general or hydraulic fracturing activities in particular, in some cases banning hydraulic fracturing entirely. If new or more stringent federal, state or local legal restrictions relating to the hydraulic fracturing process are adopted in areas where our oil and natural gas exploration and production customers operate, they could incur potentially significant added costs to comply with such requirements, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development, or production activities, and perhaps even be precluded from drilling wells, some or all of which activities could adversely affect demand for our services to those customers.. State and federal regulatory agencies recently have focused on a possible connection between the operation of injection wells used for oil and gas waste disposal and seismic activity. Similar concerns have been raised that hydraulic fracturing may also contribute to seismic activity. When caused by human activity, such events are called induced seismicity. In March 2016, the United States Geological Survey identified six states with the most significant hazards from induced seismicity, including Oklahoma, Kansas, Texas, Colorado, New Mexico, and Arkansas. In March 2017, the United States Geological Survey produced an updated seismic hazard survey that forecasted lower earthquake rates in regions of induced activity, but still showed significantly elevated hazards in the central and eastern United States. In light of these concerns, some state regulatory agencies have modified their regulations or issued orders to address induced seismicity. For example, the Oklahoma Corporation Commission (OCC) has implemented volume reduction plans, and at times required shut-ins, for disposal wells injecting wastewater from oil and gas operations into the Arbuckle formation. In December 2016, the OCC also released well completion seismicity guidelines for operators in the SCOOP and STACK that call for hydraulic fracturing operations to be suspended following earthquakes of certain magnitudes in the vicinity. Certain environmental and other groups have also suggested that additional federal, state and local laws and regulations may be needed to more closely regulate the hydraulic fracturing process. We cannot predict whether additional federal, state or local laws or regulations applicable to hydraulic fracturing will be enacted in the future and, if so, what actions any such laws or regulations would require or prohibit. Increased regulation and attention given to induced seismicity could lead to greater opposition to, and litigation concerning, oil and gas activities utilizing hydraulic fracturing or injection wells for waste disposal. Additional legislation or regulation could also lead to operational delays or increased operating costs for our customers, which in turn could reduce the demand for our services.. Other governmental agencies, including the U.S. Department of Energy, have evaluated or are evaluating various other aspects of hydraulic fracturing. These ongoing or proposed studies, depending on their degree of pursuit and any meaningful results obtained, could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing under the SDWA or other regulatory mechanisms.. Our operations may incur substantial liabilities to comply with climate change legislation and regulatory initiatives.. Because our operations emit various types of greenhouse gases, legislation and regulations governing greenhouse gas emissions could increase our costs related to operating and maintaining our facilities, and could delay future permitting. At the federal level, the EPA has adopted regulations under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act that, among other things, require the monitoring and reporting of GHG emissions from specified onshore and offshore oil and natural gas production sources in the United States on an annual basis, which include certain of our operations. Additional rules, such as the updates to the oil and gas new source performance standard requirements finalized by the EPA in May 2016 could affect our ability to obtain air permits for new or modified facilities or require our operations to incur additional expenses to control air emissions by installing emissions control technologies and adhering to a variety of work practice and other requirements. These requirements could increase the costs of development and production, reducing the profits available to us and potentially impairing our operator's ability to economically develop our properties.. In addition, the U.S. Congress has in the past and may in the future consider legislation to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, and there has been a wide-ranging policy debate, both nationally and internationally, regarding the impact of these gases and possible means for their regulation. Efforts have been made and continue to be made in the international community toward the adoption of international treaties or protocols that would address global climate change issues. From time to time, the United States Congress has considered adopting legislation to limit GHG emissions. A number of state and regional efforts have also emerged that are aimed at tracking and/or reducing GHG emissions by means of cap and trade programs. These programs typically require major sources of GHG emissions to acquire and surrender emission allowances in return for emitting those GHGs. Any such future laws and regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of, GHGs could require us to incur costs to reduce emissions of GHGs. Substantial limitations on GHG emissions could also adversely affect demand for oil and natural gas. Depending on the particular program, we could in the future be required to purchase and surrender emission allowances or. 38. Table of Contents. otherwise undertake measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Any additional costs or operating restrictions associated with new legislation or regulations regarding greenhouse gas emissions could adversely affect the demand for our services and our financial position, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to unitholders.. Increased regulatory-imposed costs may increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for, the products that we gather, treat and transport. To the extent financial markets view climate change and emissions of greenhouse gases as a financial risk, this view could negatively affect our ability to access capital markets or cause us to receive less favorable terms and conditions. Consequently, legislation and regulatory initiatives aimed at reducing greenhouse gases could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to unitholders.. Finally, some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the Earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods and other climatic events; if any such effects were to occur, they could adversely affect our results of operations.. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal regulatory authorities. Changes or additional regulatory measures adopted by such authorities could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to unitholders.. The rates charged by several of our pipeline systems, including for interstate gas transportation service provided by our intrastate pipelines, are regulated by FERC. FERC and state regulatory agencies also regulate other terms and conditions of the services we may offer. If one of these regulatory agencies, on its own initiative or due to challenges by third parties, were to lower our tariff rates or deny any rate increase or other material changes to the types, or terms and conditions, of service we might propose or offer, the profitability of our pipeline businesses could suffer. If we were permitted to raise our tariff rates for a particular pipeline, there might be significant delay between the time the tariff rate increase is approved and the time that the rate increase actually goes into effect, which could also limit our profitability. Furthermore, competition from other pipeline systems may prevent us from raising our tariff rates even if regulatory agencies permit us to do so. The regulatory agencies that regulate our systems periodically implement new rules, regulations and terms and conditions of services subject to their jurisdiction. New initiatives or orders may adversely affect the rates charged for our services or otherwise adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. Our natural gas interstate pipelines are regulated by FERC under the Natural Gas Act of 1938, or NGA, the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978, or the NGPA, and the Energy Policy Act of 2005, or EPAct of 2005. Generally, FERC's authority over interstate natural gas transportation extends to:. • rates, operating terms, conditions of service and service contracts;. • certification and construction of new facilities;. • extension or abandonment of services and facilities or expansion of existing facilities;. • maintenance of accounts and records;. • acquisition and disposition of facilities;. • initiation and discontinuation of services;. • depreciation and amortization policies;. • conduct and relationship with certain affiliates;. • market manipulation in connection with interstate sales, purchases or natural gas transportation; and. • various other matters.. Should we fail to comply with all applicable FERC-administered statutes, rules, regulations and orders, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines. Under EPACT 2005, FERC has civil penalty authority under the NGA and the NGPA to impose penalties for current violations of up to $1 million per day for each violation and possible criminal penalties of up to approximately $1.2 million per violation.. FERC's jurisdiction extends to the certification and construction of interstate transportation and storage facilities, including, but not limited to expansions, lateral and other facilities and abandonment of facilities and services. Prior to commencing construction of significant new interstate transportation and storage facilities, an interstate pipeline must obtain a certificate authorizing the construction, or an order amending its existing certificate, from FERC. Certain minor expansions are authorized by blanket certificates that FERC has issued by rule. Typically, a significant expansion project requires review by a number of governmental agencies, including state and local agencies, whose cooperation is important in completing the regulatory process. 39. Table of Contents. on schedule. Any failure by an agency to issue sufficient authorizations or permits in a timely manner for one or more of these projects may mean that we will not be able to pursue these projects or that they will be constructed in a manner or with capital requirements that we did not anticipate. Our inability to obtain sufficient permits and authorizations in a timely manner could materially and negatively impact the additional revenues expected from these projects.. FERC conducts audits to verify compliance with FERC's regulations and the terms of its orders, including whether the websites of interstate pipelines accurately provide information on the operations and availability of services. FERC's regulations require uniform terms and conditions for service, as set forth in agreements for transportation and storage services executed between interstate pipelines and their customers. These service agreements are required to conform, in all material respects, with the standard form of service agreements set forth in the pipeline's FERC-approved tariff. Non-conforming agreements must be filed with, and accepted by, the FERC. In the event that FERC finds that an agreement, in whole or part, is materially non-conforming, it could reject the agreement or require us to seek modification, or alternatively require us to modify our tariff so that the non-conforming provisions are generally available to all customers.. The rates, terms and conditions for transporting natural gas in interstate commerce on certain of our intrastate pipelines and for services offered at certain of our storage facilities are subject to the jurisdiction of FERC under Section 311 of the NGPA. Rates to provide such interstate transportation service must be \"fair and equitable\" under the NGPA and are subject to review, refund with interest if found not to be fair and equitable, and approval by FERC at least once every five years.. Our crude oil gathering pipelines are subject to common carrier regulation by FERC under the Interstate Commerce Act, or ICA. The ICA requires that we maintain tariffs on file with FERC setting forth the rates we charge for providing transportation services, as well as the rules and regulations governing such services. The ICA requires, among other things, that our rates must be \"just and reasonable\" and that we provide service in a manner that is nondiscriminatory. Shippers on our crude oil gathering pipelines may protest our tariff filings, file complaints against our existing rates, or FERC can investigate our rates on its own initiative. In the event that FERC finds that our existing or proposed rates are unjust and unreasonable, it could deny requested rate increases or could order us to reduce our rates and could require the payment of reparations to complaining shippers for up to two years prior to the complaint.. On December 22, 2017, legislation known as the \"Tax Cuts and Jobs Act\" was enacted, which reduced the highest marginal United States federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017. Following the effective date of the law, the FERC orders granting certificates to construct proposed pipeline facilities have directed pipelines proposing new rates for service on those facilities to re-file such rates so that the rates reflect the reduction in the corporate tax rate, the FERC has issued data requests in pending certificate proceedings for proposed pipeline facilities requesting pipelines to explain the impacts of the reduction in the corporate tax rate on the rate proposals in those proceedings and to provide re-calculated initial rates for service on the proposed pipeline facilities, and filings have been made at the FERC requesting that the FERC require pipelines to lower their transportation rates to account for lower corporate taxes. Our current tariff rates on file with FERC incorporate the federal income tax rates that were in effect at the time those tariff rates were established. If FERC requires us to establish new tariff rates that reflect a lower federal corporate income tax rate, it is possible the rates would be reduced, which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. Our operations may also be subject to regulation by state and local regulatory authorities. Changes or additional regulatory measures adopted by such authorities could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to unitholders.. Our pipeline operations that are not regulated by FERC may be subject to state and local regulation applicable to intrastate natural and transportation services. The relevant states in which we operate include North Dakota, Oklahoma, Arkansas, Louisiana, Texas, Missouri, Kansas, Mississippi, Tennessee and Illinois. State and local regulations generally focus on safety, environmental and, in some circumstances, prohibition of undue discrimination among shippers. Additional rules and legislation pertaining to these matters are considered and, in some instances, adopted from time to time. We cannot predict what effect, if any, such changes might have on our operations, but we could be required to incur additional capital expenditures and increased costs depending on future legislative and regulatory changes. Other state and local regulations also may affect our business. Any such state or local regulation could have an adverse effect on our business and our financial position, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to unitholders.. Our gathering lines may be subject to ratable take and common purchaser statutes. Ratable take statutes generally require gatherers to take, without undue discrimination, oil or natural gas production that may be tendered to the gatherer for handling. Similarly, common purchaser statutes generally require gatherers to purchase without undue discrimination as to source of supply or producer. These statutes restrict our right as an owner of gathering facilities to decide with whom we contract to purchase or transport oil or natural gas. Federal law leaves economic regulation of natural gas gathering to the states. The states in which we. 40. Table of Contents. operate have adopted complaint-based regulation of oil and natural gas gathering activities, which allows oil and natural gas producers and shippers to file complaints with state regulators in an effort to resolve grievances relating to access to oil and natural gas gathering pipelines and rate discrimination.. Other state regulations may not directly regulate our business, but may nonetheless affect the availability of natural gas for processing, including state regulation of production rates and maximum daily production allowable from gas wells. While our gathering lines are currently subject to limited state regulation, there is a risk that state laws will be changed, which may give producers a stronger basis to challenge the regulatory status of a line, or the rates, terms and conditions of a gathering line providing transportation service.. A change in the jurisdictional characterization of some of our assets by federal, state or local regulatory agencies or a change in policy by those agencies may result in increased regulation of our assets, which may cause our revenues to decline and operating expenses to increase.. Our natural gas gathering and intrastate transportation operations are generally exempt from the jurisdiction of FERC under the NGA, but FERC regulation may indirectly impact these businesses and the markets for products derived from these businesses. FERC's policies and practices across the range of its oil and natural gas regulatory activities, including, for example, its policies on interstate open access transportation, ratemaking, capacity release, and market center promotion may indirectly affect intrastate markets. In recent years, FERC has pursued pro-competitive policies in its regulation of interstate oil and natural gas pipelines. However, we cannot assure you that FERC will continue to pursue this approach as it considers matters such as pipeline rates and rules and policies that may indirectly affect the intrastate natural gas transportation business. Although FERC has not made a formal determination with respect to all of our facilities we consider to be gathering facilities, management believes that our natural gas gathering pipelines meet the traditional tests that FERC has used to determine that a pipeline is a gathering pipeline and are therefore not subject to FERC jurisdiction. The distinction between FERC-regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services, however, has been the subject of substantial litigation, and FERC determines whether facilities are gathering facilities on a case-by-case basis, so the classification and regulation of our gathering facilities is subject to change based on future determinations by FERC, the courts or Congress. If FERC were to consider the status of an individual facility and determine that the facility and/or services provided by it are not exempt from FERC regulation under the NGA and that the facility provides interstate service, the rates for, and terms and conditions of, services provided by such facility would be subject to regulation by FERC under the NGA or the NGPA. Such regulation could decrease revenue, increase operating costs, and, depending upon the facility in question, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. In addition, if any of our facilities were found to have provided services or otherwise operated in violation of the NGA or NGPA, this could result in the imposition of substantial civil penalties, as well as a requirement to disgorge revenues collected for such services in excess of the maximum rates established by FERC.. Natural gas gathering may receive greater regulatory scrutiny at the state level; therefore, our natural gas gathering operations could be adversely affected should they become subject to the application of state regulation of rates and services. Our gathering operations could also be subject to safety and operational regulations relating to the design, construction, testing, operation, replacement and maintenance of gathering facilities. We cannot predict what effect, if any, such changes might have on our operations, but we could be required to incur additional capital expenditures and increased costs depending on future legislative and regulatory changes.. We may incur significant costs and liabilities resulting from compliance with pipeline safety laws and regulations, pipeline integrity and other similar programs and related repairs.. Certain of our pipeline operations are subject to pipeline safety laws and regulations. The U.S. Department of Transportation's (DOT) Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA) regulates safety requirements for the design, construction, maintenance and operation of PHMSA jurisdictional natural gas and hazardous liquids pipeline facilities. All of our interstate and intrastate natural gas transportation pipeline facilities are PHMSA jurisdictional and certain of our natural gas gathering, NGL, and crude oil pipeline facilities are PHMSA jurisdictional. Among other things, these laws and regulations require pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs, including more frequent inspections and other measures for pipelines located in \"high consequence areas.\" The regulations require operators, including us, to, among other things:. • perform ongoing assessments of pipeline integrity;. • develop a baseline plan to prioritize the assessment of a covered pipeline segment;. • identify and characterize applicable threats that could impact a high consequence area;. • improve data collection, integration, and analysis;. • repair and remediate pipelines as necessary; and. 41. Table of Contents. • implement preventive and mitigating action.. Failure to comply with PHMSA or comparable state pipeline safety regulations could result in a number of consequences which may have an adverse effect on our operations. We incur significant costs associated with our compliance with existing PHMSA and comparable state pipeline regulations. We currently estimate that we will incur maintenance capital expenditures and operation and maintenance expenses of up to $285 million from 2018 through 2022 to comply with existing pipeline safety laws and regulations related to integrity assessments and repairs. We may incur significant cost associated with repair, remediation, preventive and mitigation measures associated with our integrity management programs for pipelines that are not currently subject to regulation by PHMSA.. Changes to pipeline safety laws and regulations that result in more stringent or costly safety standards could have a significant adverse effect on us. For example, in August 2011, PHMSA published an advance notice of proposed rulemaking (ANPRM) in which the agency was seeking public comment on a number of changes to regulations governing the safety of gas transmission pipelines and gathering lines, including, for example, revising the definitions of \"high consequence areas\" and \"gathering lines\" and strengthening integrity management requirements as they apply to existing regulated operators and to currently exempt operators should certain exemptions be removed. On April 8, 2016, the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration published a notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM) responding to several of the integrity management topics raised in the August 2011 ANPRM and proposing new requirements to address safety issues for natural gas transmission and gathering lines that have arisen since the issuance of the ANPRM. The proposed rule would strengthen existing integrity management requirements, expand assessment and repair requirements to pipelines in areas with medium population densities, and extend regulatory requirements to onshore gas gathering lines that are currently exempt. Comments were due July 7, 2016. PHMSA issued, but has yet to publish, a similar rule for hazardous liquids (including oil) pipelines on January 13, 2017. This rule extends regulatory reporting requirements to all liquid gathering lines, require additional event-driven and periodic inspections, require use of leak detection systems on all hazardous liquid pipelines, modify repair criteria, and require certain pipelines to eventually accommodate inline inspection tools. It is unclear when or if this rule will go into effect as, on January 20, 2017, the Trump Administration requested that all regulations that had been sent to the Office of the Federal Register, but not yet published, be immediately withdrawn for further review. We are still monitoring and evaluating the effect of these requirements and proposals on our operations. Proposed rulemakings such as the NPRMs published on October 13, 2015 and April 8, 2016 could expand the scope of the natural gas and hazardous liquids integrity management programs and other related pipeline safety regulations to include additional requirements or previously exempt pipelines. We have not estimated the cost of complying with any proposed changes to the regulations administered by PHMSA or state pipeline safety regulators.. Financial reform regulations under the Dodd-Frank Act could adversely affect our ability to use derivative instruments to hedge risks associated with our business.. At times, we may hedge all or a portion of our commodity risk and our interest rate risk. The federal government regulates the derivatives markets and entities, including businesses like ours, that participate in those markets through the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, which requires the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or the CFTC, and the SEC to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the legislation. Under the CFTC's regulations, we are subject to reporting and recordkeeping obligations for transactions involving non-financial swap transactions. The CFTC initially adopted regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents, but these rules were successfully challenged in federal district court by the Securities Industry Financial Markets Association and the International Swaps and Derivatives Association and largely vacated by the court. In December 2013, the CFTC published a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking designed to implement new position limits regulation and in December 2016, the CFTC re-proposal position limits regulations. The ultimate form and timing of the implementation of the regulatory regime affecting commodity derivatives remains uncertain.. The CFTC has imposed mandatory clearing requirements on certain categories of swaps, including certain interest rate swaps, but has exempted derivatives intended to hedge or mitigate commercial risk from the mandatory swap clearing requirement, where the counterparty such as us has a required identification number, is not a financial entity as defined by the regulations, and meets a minimum asset test. Management believes our hedging transactions qualify for this \"commercial end-user\" exception. The Dodd-Frank Act may also require us to comply with margin requirements in connection with our hedging activities, although the application of those provisions to us is uncertain at this time. The Dodd-Frank Act may also require the counterparties to our derivative instruments to spin off some of their hedging activities to a separate entity, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparty.. The Dodd-Frank Act and related regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivatives contracts for our industry (including requirements to post collateral which could adversely affect our available liquidity), materially alter the terms of. 42. Table of Contents. derivatives contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivatives contracts, and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties, particularly if we are unable to utilize the commercial end user exception with respect to certain of our hedging transactions. If we reduce our use of hedging as a result of the legislation and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures and fund unitholder distributions. Finally, the legislation was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of crude oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to crude oil and natural gas. Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the legislation and regulations is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and our ability to make cash distributions to unitholders.. Risks Related to an Investment in Us. Our general partner and its affiliates, including CenterPoint Energy and OGE Energy, have conflicts of interest with us and limited duties to us and our unitholders, and they may favor their own interests to the detriment of us and our other common unitholders.. Affiliates of CenterPoint Energy and OGE Energy own and control our general partner and appoint all of the directors of our general partner. Some of the directors of our general partner are appointed to represent CenterPoint Energy or OGE Energy and are also officers and/or directors of CenterPoint Energy or OGE Energy, respectively. Although our general partner has a duty to manage us in a manner that is beneficial to us and our unitholders, the directors of our general partner who are appointed to represent CenterPoint Energy or OGE Energy have a fiduciary duty to perform their obligations as directors in a manner that is beneficial to CenterPoint Energy or OGE Energy, respectively. Conflicts of interest will arise between CenterPoint Energy, OGE Energy and our general partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts of interest, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of CenterPoint Energy and OGE Energy over our interests and the interests of our unitholders. These conflicts include the following situations, among others:. • Neither the Partnership Agreement nor any other agreement requires CenterPoint Energy or OGE Energy to pursue a business strategy that favors us. The directors and officers of CenterPoint Energy and OGE Energy have a fiduciary duty to make decisions in the best interests of the stockholders of their respective companies, which may be contrary to our interests. CenterPoint Energy and OGE Energy may choose to shift the focus of their investment and growth to areas not served by our assets. In addition, CenterPoint Energy is the holder of our Series A Preferred Units and may favor its interests in voting in favor of actions relating to such units, including voting in favor of making distributions on such Series A Preferred Units even if no distributions are made on the common units.. • Our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as CenterPoint Energy and OGE Energy, in resolving conflicts of interest.. • Some of the directors of our general partner are also officers and/or directors of CenterPoint Energy or OGE Energy and will owe fiduciary duties to their respective companies. These individuals may also devote significant time to the business of CenterPoint Energy and OGE Energy.. • The Partnership Agreement replaces the fiduciary duties that would otherwise be owed to us by our general partner with contractual standards governing its duties, limits our general partner's liabilities and restricts the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without such limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty.. • Except in limited circumstances, our general partner has the power and authority to conduct our business without unitholder approval.. • Disputes may arise under our commercial agreements with CenterPoint Energy and OGE Energy.. • Our general partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, borrowings, issuances of additional partnership units and the creation, reduction or increase of cash reserves, each of which can affect the amount of distributable cash flow.. • Our general partner determines the amount and timing of any capital expenditures and whether a capital expenditure is classified as a maintenance capital expenditure, which reduces operating surplus, or an expansion or investment capital expenditure, which does not reduce operating surplus. This determination can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders.. • Our general partner determines which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us.. • Our general partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make incentive distributions.. 43. Table of Contents. • The Partnership Agreement permits us to classify up to $300 million as operating surplus, even if it is generated from asset sales, non-working capital borrowings or other sources that would otherwise constitute capital surplus. This cash may be used to fund distributions to our general partner in respect of the incentive distribution rights.. • The Partnership Agreement does not prohibit our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf.. • Our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations.. • Our general partner may exercise its right to call and purchase all of the common units not owned by it and its affiliates if they own more than 90% of the common units.  If our general partner and its affiliates reduce their ownership percentage to below 70% of the outstanding units, the ownership threshold to exercise the call right will be permanently reduced to 80%.. • Our general partner controls the enforcement of the obligations that it and its affiliates owe to us.. • Our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us.. • Our general partner may transfer its incentive distribution rights without unitholder approval.. • Our general partner may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to our general partner's incentive distribution rights without the approval of the conflicts committee of the Board of Directors or our unitholders. This election may result in lower distributions to our common unitholders in certain situations.. If a unitholder is not an Eligible Holder, the unitholder's common units may be subject to redemption.. Our Partnership Agreement includes certain requirements regarding those investors who may own our common and preferred units. Eligible Holders are limited partners whose (i) federal income tax status is not reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on the rates that can be charged by us on assets that are subject to regulation by FERC or an analogous regulatory body and (ii) nationality, citizenship or other related status would not create a substantial risk of cancellation or forfeiture of any property in which we have an interest, in each case as determined by our general partner with the advice of counsel. If the unitholder is not an Eligible Holder, in certain circumstances as set forth in our Partnership Agreement, the unitholder's units may be redeemed by us at the then-current market price. The redemption price will be paid in cash or by delivery of a promissory note, as determined by our general partner.. Our Partnership Agreement requires that we distribute all of our available cash, which could limit our ability to grow and make acquisitions.. Our Partnership Agreement requires that we distribute all of our available cash to our unitholders and will rely primarily upon external financing sources, including commercial borrowings and the issuance of debt and equity securities, to fund our acquisitions and expansion capital expenditures. As a result, to the extent we are unable to finance growth externally, our cash distribution policy will significantly impair our ability to grow.. In addition, because we are required to distribute all of our available cash, our growth may not be as fast as that of businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. To the extent we issue additional units in connection with any acquisitions or expansion capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional units may increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain or increase our per unit distribution level. There are no limitations in our Partnership Agreement or in our credit facilities that limit our ability to issue additional units, including units ranking senior to the common units. The incurrence of additional commercial borrowings or other debt to finance our growth strategy would result in increased interest expense, which in turn may impact the available cash that we have to distribute to our unitholders.. The reimbursements due to our general partner and its affiliates for services provided to us or on our behalf will reduce our distributable cash flow. The amount and timing of such reimbursements will be determined by our general partner.. Prior to making any distribution on our common units, we will reimburse our general partner and its affiliates, including CenterPoint Energy and OGE Energy, for costs and expenses they incur and payments they make on our behalf. Pursuant to services agreements we have entered into with each of CenterPoint Energy and OGE Energy, we will reimburse CenterPoint Energy and OGE Energy for the payment of operating expenses related to our operations and for the provision of various general and administrative services performed for our benefit. Payments for these services may be substantial and will reduce the amount of distributable cash flow. Additionally, we will reimburse CenterPoint Energy and OGE Energy for direct or allocated costs and expenses incurred on our behalf, including administrative costs, such as compensation expense for those persons who provide services necessary to run our business, and insurance expenses. Our Partnership Agreement provides that our general partner will. 44. Table of Contents. determine in good faith the expenses that are allocable to us. The reimbursement of expenses and payment of fees, if any, to our general partner and its affiliates will reduce the amount of available cash to pay cash distributions to our common unitholders.. Any reductions in our credit ratings could increase our financing costs and the cost of maintaining certain contractual relationships.. We cannot assure you that our credit ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances warrant. If any of our credit ratings are below investment grade, we may have higher future borrowing costs and we or our subsidiaries may be required to post cash collateral or letters of credit under certain contractual agreements. If cash collateral requirements were to occur at a time when we were experiencing significant working capital requirements or otherwise lacked liquidity, our financial position, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to unitholders could be adversely affected.. The credit and business risk profiles and the business plans of our sponsors could adversely affect our credit ratings and profile.. The credit and business risk profiles and the business plans of our sponsors may be factors in credit evaluations of us because, through their indirect ownership of our general partner, they can influence our business activities, including our cash distribution strategy, acquisition strategy, and business risk profile. The financial conditions of CenterPoint Energy and OGE Energy, including the degree of their financial leverage and their dependence on cash flows from us, as well as their business plans with respect to their investment in us, may be considered by credit rating agencies in their assessment of our credit ratings and profile.. CenterPoint Energy and OGE Energy, which indirectly own our general partner, have indebtedness outstanding and are partially dependent on the cash distributions from their general partner and limited partner interests in us to service such indebtedness and pay dividends on their common stock. Any distributions by us to such entities will be made only after satisfying our then-current obligations to our creditors. Our credit ratings and business risk profile could be adversely affected if the ratings and risk profiles of the entities that control our general partner were viewed as substantially lower or riskier than ours.. Our Partnership Agreement replaces our general partner's fiduciary duties to holders of our common units with contractual standards governing its duties.. Our Partnership Agreement contains provisions that eliminate the fiduciary standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law and replaces those duties with several different contractual standards. For example, our Partnership Agreement permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner, free of any duties to us and our unitholders other than the implied contractual covenant of good faith and fair dealing, which means that a court will enforce the reasonable expectations of the partners where the language in the Partnership Agreement does not provide for a clear course of action. This provision entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires and relieves it of any duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or our limited partners. Examples of decisions that our general partner may make in its individual capacity include:. • how to allocate corporate opportunities among us and its other affiliates;. • whether to exercise its limited call right;. • whether to seek approval of the resolution of a conflict of interest by the conflicts committee of the Board of Directors;. • whether to elect to reset target distribution levels;. • whether to transfer the incentive distribution rights to a third party; and. • whether or not to consent to any merger or consolidation of the Partnership or amendment to the Partnership Agreement.. By purchasing a common unit, a common unitholder agrees to become bound by the provisions in the Partnership Agreement, including the provisions discussed above.. Our Partnership Agreement restricts the remedies available to holders of our common units for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty.. Our Partnership Agreement contains provisions that restrict the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty under state fiduciary duty law. For example, our Partnership Agreement provides that:. 45. Table of Contents. • whenever our general partner, the Board of Directors or any committee thereof (including the conflicts committee) makes a determination or takes, or declines to take, any other action in their respective capacities, our general partner, the Board of Directors and any committee thereof (including the conflicts committee), as applicable, is required to make such determination, or take or decline to take such other action, in good faith, meaning that it subjectively believed that the decision was in the best interests of the Partnership, and, except as specifically provided by our Partnership Agreement, will not be subject to any other or different standard imposed by our Partnership Agreement, Delaware law, or any other law, rule or regulation, or at equity;. • our general partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a general partner so long as such decisions are made in good faith;. • our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us or our limited partners resulting from any act or omission unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our general partner or its officers and directors, as the case may be, acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was criminal; and. • our general partner will not be in breach of its obligations under the Partnership Agreement (including any duties to us or our unitholders) if a transaction with an affiliate or the resolution of a conflict of interest is:. • approved by the conflicts committee of the Board of Directors, although our general partner is not obligated to seek such approval;. • approved by the vote of a majority of the outstanding common units, excluding any common units owned by our general partner and its affiliates;. • determined by the Board of Directors to be on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties; or. • determined by the Board of Directors to be fair and reasonable to us, taking into account the totality of the relationships among the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly favorable or advantageous to us.. In connection with a situation involving a transaction with an affiliate or a conflict of interest, any determination by our general partner or the conflicts committee must be made in good faith. If an affiliate transaction or the resolution of a conflict of interest is not approved by our common unitholders or the conflicts committee and the Board of Directors determines that the resolution or course of action taken with respect to the affiliate transaction or conflict of interest satisfies either of the standards set forth in the third and fourth sub-bullets above, then it will be presumed that, in making its decision, the Board of Directors acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or the Partnership challenging such determination, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption.. Our general partner may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the minimum quarterly distribution and the target distribution levels related to our general partner's incentive distribution rights without the approval of the conflicts committee of our general partner or our unitholders. This may result in lower distributions to our common unitholders in certain situations.. Our general partner has the right, if it has received incentive distributions at the highest level to which it is entitled (50%) for each of the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters and the amount of each such distribution did not exceed the adjusted operating surplus for such quarter, respectively, to reset the initial minimum quarterly distribution and cash target distribution levels at higher levels based on the average cash distribution amount per common unit for the two fiscal quarters prior to the exercise of the reset election. Following a reset election by our general partner, the minimum quarterly distribution amount will be reset to an amount equal to the average cash distribution amount per common unit for the two fiscal quarters immediately preceding the reset election (such amount is referred to as the reset minimum quarterly distribution) and the target distribution levels will be reset to correspondingly higher levels based on percentage increases above the reset minimum quarterly distribution amount.. We anticipate that our general partner would exercise this reset right in order to facilitate acquisitions or internal growth projects that would not be sufficiently accretive to cash distributions per common unit without such conversion; however, it is possible that our general partner could exercise this reset election at a time when we are experiencing declines in our aggregate cash distributions or at a time when our general partner expects that we will experience declines in our aggregate cash distributions in the foreseeable future. In such situations, our general partner may be experiencing, or may be expected to experience, declines in the cash distributions it receives related to its incentive distribution rights and may therefore desire to be issued our common units, which are entitled to specified priorities with respect to our distributions and which therefore may be more advantageous for the general partner to own in lieu of the right to receive incentive distribution payments based on target distribution levels that. 46. Table of Contents. are less certain to be achieved in the then-current business environment. This risk could be elevated if our incentive distribution rights have been transferred to a third party. Our general partner has the right to transfer the incentive distribution rights at any time, in whole or in part, and any transferee holding a majority of the incentive distribution rights shall have the same rights as our general partner with respect to resetting target distributions. As a result, a reset election may cause our common unitholders to experience dilution in the amount of cash distributions that they would have otherwise received had we not issued new common units to our general partner in connection with resetting the target distribution levels related to our general partner incentive distribution rights.. Holders of our common units have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our general partner or its directors.. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management's decisions regarding our business. Unitholders have no right to elect our general partner or its Board of Directors on an annual or other continuing basis. Because CenterPoint Energy and OGE Energy collectively indirectly own 100% of our general partner, the Board of Directors has been, and, as long as CenterPoint Energy and OGE Energy own 100% of our general partner, will continue to be, chosen by CenterPoint Energy and OGE Energy. Furthermore, if the unitholders were dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they will have little ability to remove our general partner. Please see \" - Even if holders of our common units are dissatisfied, they will not be able to remove our general partner without its consent.\" As a result of these limitations, the price at which the common units will trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. Our Partnership Agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders' ability to influence the manner or direction of management.. Even if holders of our common units are dissatisfied, they will not be able to remove our general partner without its consent.. The unitholders are unable to remove our general partner without its consent because affiliates of our general partner own sufficient units to be able to prevent its removal. The vote of the holders of at least 75% of all outstanding units voting together as a single class is required to remove our general partner. As of February 1, 2018, affiliates of our general partner owned 79.8% of our aggregate outstanding common units.. Our Partnership Agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our common units.. Unitholders' voting rights are further restricted by a provision of our Partnership Agreement providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the Board of Directors, cannot vote on any matter.. Our general partner's interest in us and control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent.. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of our unitholders. Our Partnership Agreement does not restrict the ability of the owners of our general partner from transferring all or a portion of their respective limited liability company interest in our general partner to a third party. The new owners of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the Board of Directors and officers of our general partner with its own choices and thereby influence the decisions taken by the Board of Directors and officers.. The incentive distribution rights of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent.. Our general partner may transfer its incentive distribution rights to a third party at any time without the consent of our unitholders. If our general partner transfers its incentive distribution rights to a third party but retains its general partner interest, our general partner may not have the same incentive to grow the Partnership and increase quarterly distributions to unitholders over time as it would if it had retained ownership of its incentive distribution rights.. We may issue additional units without your approval, which would dilute your existing ownership interests.. The Partnership Agreement does not limit the number of additional limited partner interests, including limited partner interests that rank senior to the common units, that we may issue at any time without the approval of our unitholders. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects:. • our existing unitholders' proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease;. • the amount of distributable cash flow on each unit may decrease;. 47. Table of Contents. • because the amount payable to holders of incentive distribution rights is based on a percentage of the total distributable cash flow, the distributions to holders of incentive distribution rights will increase even if the per unit distribution on common units remains the same;. • the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase;. • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and. • the market price of the common units may decline.. In addition, upon a change of control or certain fundamental transactions, our Series A Preferred Units are convertible into common units at the option of the holders of such units. If a substantial portion of the Series A Preferred Units were converted into common units, common unitholders could experience significant dilution. In addition, if holders of such converted Series A Preferred Units were to dispose of a substantial portion of these common units in the public market, whether in a single transaction or series of transactions, it could adversely affect the market price for our common units. In addition, these sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, could make it more difficult for us to sell our common units in the future.. Affiliates of our general partner may sell common units in the public or private markets, which could have an adverse impact on the trading price of the common units and may sell their interest in our general partner, which may impact our strategic direction.. As of February 1, 2018, CenterPoint Energy held 233,856,623 common units and 14,520,000 Series A Preferred Units, and OGE Energy held 110,982,805 common units. Our Series A Preferred Units are convertible into common units upon a change of control or certain fundamental transactions at the option of the holders of such units. Both our common units held by CenterPoint Energy and OGE Energy, as well as our Series A Preferred Units held by CenterPoint Energy, are subject to certain registration rights. In addition, CenterPoint Energy has publicly disclosed that it is evaluating strategic alternatives for its investment in the Partnership. CenterPoint Energy has disclosed that the alternatives may include a sale of all or a portion of the interests that it owns in the Partnership and the General Partner, that if the sale option is not viable it intends to reduce its ownership in the Partnership over time through a sale of the common units it holds in the public equity markets subject to market conditions, and that there can be no assurances that these evaluations will result in any specific action. CenterPoint Energy's disclosure, as well as any sales by CenterPoint Energy of the common units it holds in the public equity markets, could have an adverse impact on the market for our common units, including our ability to issue equity on favorable terms to fund our capital needs or at all. Any sale of our general partner by CenterPoint Energy or OGE Energy may impact our strategic direction, business or results of operations.. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require our unitholders to sell their units at an undesirable time or price.. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 90% of our common units, our general partner will have the right, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, but not the obligation, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than their then-current market price, as calculated pursuant to the terms of the Partnership Agreement. If our general partner and its affiliates reduce their ownership percentage to below 70% of the outstanding units, the ownership threshold to exercise the call right will be permanently reduced to 80%. As a result, our unitholders may be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any positive return on their investment. Our unitholders may also incur a tax liability upon any such sale of their units. As of February 1, 2018, affiliates of our general partner owned approximately 79.8% of our outstanding common units. If we assume the conversion of our Series A Preferred Units using the closing price of our units as of February 1, 2018, affiliates of our general partner will then own 80.8% of our aggregate outstanding common units. Affiliates of our general partner may acquire additional common units from us in connection with future transactions or through open-market or negotiated purchases.. Our unitholders' liability may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business.. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. The Partnership is organized under Delaware law, and we conduct business in a number of other states. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some of the other states in which we may do business. Our unitholders could be held liable for any and all of our obligations as if they were general partners if a court or government agency were to determine that:. • we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state's partnership statute; or. 48. Table of Contents. • a unitholder's right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace our general partner, to approve some amendments to our Partnership Agreement or to take other actions under our Partnership Agreement constitutes \"control\" of our business.. Our Partnership Agreement designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our unitholders, which limits our unitholders' ability to choose the judicial forum for disputes with us or our general partner's directors, officers or other employees.. Our Partnership Agreement provides, that, with certain limited exceptions, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware is the exclusive forum for any claims, suits, actions or proceedings (1) arising out of or relating in any way to our Partnership Agreement (including any claims, suits or actions to interpret, apply or enforce the provisions of our Partnership Agreement or the duties, obligations or liabilities among our partners, or obligations or liabilities of our partners to us, or the rights or powers of, or restrictions on, our partners or us), (2) brought in a derivative manner on our behalf, (3) asserting a claim of breach of a duty (including a fiduciary duty) owed by any of our, or our general partner's, directors, officers, or other employees, or owed by our general partner, to us or our partners, (4) asserting a claim against us arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act or (5) asserting a claim against us governed by the internal affairs doctrine. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in our common units is deemed to have received notice of and consented to the foregoing provisions. Although management believes this choice of forum provision benefits us by providing increased consistency in the application of Delaware law in the types of lawsuits to which it applies, the provision may have the effect of discouraging lawsuits against us and our general partner's directors and officers. The enforceability of similar choice of forum provisions in other companies' certificates of incorporation or similar governing documents has been challenged in legal proceedings and it is possible that in connection with any action a court could find the choice of forum provisions contained in our Partnership Agreement to be inapplicable or unenforceable in such action. If a court were to find this choice of forum provision inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. The NYSE does not require a publicly traded limited partnership like us to comply with certain of its corporate governance requirements.. Our common units are listed on the NYSE. Because we are a publicly traded limited partnership, the NYSE does not require us to have, and we do not intend to have, a majority of independent directors on our Board of Directors, to establish a nominating and corporate governance committee, or to have a compensation committee composed entirely of independent directors. Accordingly, unitholders will not have the same protections afforded to certain corporations that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements.. Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions that were wrongfully distributed to them.. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, which we refer to herein as the Delaware Act, we may not make a distribution to our unitholders if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of the impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Transferees of common units are liable for both the obligations of the transferor to make contributions to the Partnership that are known to the transferee at the time of transfer and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could have been determined from the Partnership Agreement. Neither liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interest nor liabilities that are non-recourse to the Partnership are counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted.. Our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our obligations.. Our general partner intends to limit its liability under contractual arrangements so that the counterparties to such arrangements have recourse only against our assets and not against our general partner or its assets. Our general partner may therefore cause us to incur indebtedness or other obligations that are non-recourse to our general partner. Our Partnership Agreement permits our general partner to limit its liability, even if we could have obtained more favorable terms without the limitation on liability. In addition, we are obligated to reimburse or indemnify our general partner to the extent that it incurs obligations on our behalf. Any such reimbursement or indemnification payments would reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution to our unitholders.. 49. Table of Contents. An increase in interest rates could adversely impact the price of our common units, our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes and our ability to make cash distributions at our intended levels.. Interest rates on future credit facilities and debt offerings could be higher than current levels, causing our financing costs to increase accordingly. As with other yield-oriented securities, the market price of our common units is impacted by the level of our cash distributions and implied distribution yield. The distribution yield is often used by investors to compare and rank related yield-oriented securities for investment decision purposes. Therefore, changes in interest rates may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our units, and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact on the price of our common units, our ability to issue additional equity to make acquisitions or for other purposes, our financial position, results of operations and our ability to make cash distributions at our intended levels.. Our Series A Preferred Units have rights, preferences and privileges that are not held by, and are preferential to the rights of, holders of our common units.. Our Series A Preferred Units rank senior to all of our other classes or series of equity securities with respect to distribution rights and rights upon liquidation. We cannot declare or pay a distribution to our common unitholders for any quarter unless full distributions have been or contemporaneously are being paid on all outstanding Series A Preferred Units for such quarter. These preferences could adversely affect the market price for our common units, or could make it more difficult for us to sell our common units in the future.. Holders of the Series A Preferred Units will receive, on a non-cumulative basis and if and when declared by our general partner, a quarterly cash distribution, subject to certain adjustments, equal to an annual rate of 10% on the stated liquidation preference from the date of original issue to, but not including, the five year anniversary of the original issue date, and an annual rate of LIBOR plus a spread of 850 bps on the stated liquidation preference thereafter. In connection with certain transfers of the Series A Preferred Units, the Series A Preferred Units will automatically convert into one or more new series of preferred units (the \"other preferred units\") on the later of the date of transfer or the second anniversary of the date of issue. The other preferred units will have the same terms as our Series A Preferred Units except that unpaid distributions on the other preferred units will accrue from the date of their issuance on a cumulative basis until paid. Our Series A Preferred Units are convertible into common units by the holders of such units in certain circumstances. Payment of distributions on our Series A Preferred Units, or on the common units issued following the conversion of such Series A Preferred Units, could impact our liquidity and reduce the amount of cash flow available for working capital, capital expenditures, growth opportunities, acquisitions, and other general partnership purposes. Our obligations to the holders of Series A Preferred Units could also limit our ability to obtain additional financing or increase our borrowing costs, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition.. Our Series A Preferred Units contain covenants that may limit our business flexibility.. Our Series A Preferred Units contain covenants preventing us from taking certain actions without the approval of the holders of 66 2/3% of the Series A Preferred Units. The need to obtain the approval of holders of the Series A Preferred Units before taking these actions could impede our ability to take certain actions that management or our board of directors may consider to be in the best interests of our unitholders. The affirmative vote of 66 2/3% of the outstanding Series A Preferred Units, voting as a single class, is necessary to amend the Partnership Agreement in any manner that would or could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the rights, preferences, obligations or privileges of the Series A Preferred Units. The affirmative vote of 66 2/3% of the outstanding Series A Preferred Units and any outstanding series of other preferred units, voting as a single class, is necessary to (A) create or issue certain party securities with proceeds in an aggregate amount in excess of $700 million or create or issue any senior securities or (B) subject to our right to redeem the Series A Preferred Units, approve certain fundamental transactions.. Our Series A Preferred Units are required to be redeemed in certain circumstances if they are not eligible for trading on the NYSE, and we may not have sufficient funds to redeem our Series A Preferred Units if we are required to do so.. The holders of our Series A Preferred Units may request that we list those units for trading on the NYSE. If we are unable to list the Series A Preferred Units in certain circumstances, we will be required to redeem the Series A Preferred Units. There can be no assurance that we would have sufficient financial resources available to satisfy our obligation to redeem the Series A Preferred Units. In addition, mandatory redemption of our Series A Preferred Units could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to unitholders.. 50. Table of Contents. Tax Risks to Common Unitholders. Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. If the IRS were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, which would subject us to entity-level taxation, then our distributable cash flow to our unitholders would be substantially reduced.. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in the common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, regarding our qualification as a partnership for tax purposes.. Despite the fact that we are a limited partnership under Delaware law, it is possible in certain circumstances for a partnership such as ours to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. A change in our business or a change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity.. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which changed from 35% to 21% for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, and would likely pay state and local income tax at varying rates. Distributions to our unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate dividends (to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits), and no income, gains, losses, deductions, or credits would flow through to such unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our distributable cash flow to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, if we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes there would be material reductions in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. This could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to unitholders.. Our Partnership Agreement provides that, if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us.. If we were subjected to a material amount of additional entity-level taxation by individual states, it would reduce our distributable cash flow to our unitholders.. Changes in current state law may subject us to additional entity-level taxation by individual states. Because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. Imposition of such additional tax on us by a state will reduce the distributable cash flow. Our Partnership Agreement provides that, if a law is enacted or an existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to entity-level taxation, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us.. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our common units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations of applicable law, possibly on a retroactive basis.. The present federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. From time to time, members of the U.S. Congress propose and consider substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships.. Any modification to the federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof could make it more difficult or impossible to meet the exception for us to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We are unable to predict whether any such changes will ultimately be enacted, but it is possible that a change in law could affect us and may, if enacted, be applied retroactively. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units.. Our unitholders are required to pay income taxes on their share of our taxable income even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us. A unitholder's share of our taxable income, and its relationship to any distributions we make, may be affected by a variety of factors, including our economic performance, transactions in which we engage or changes in law and may be substantially different from any estimate we make in connection with a unit offering.. A unitholder's allocable share of our taxable income will be taxable to the unitholder, which may require the unitholder to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes, even if the unitholder receives cash distributions from us that are less than the actual tax liability that results from that income or no cash distributions at all.. 51. Table of Contents. A unitholder's share of our taxable income, and its relationship to any distributions we make, may be affected by a variety of factors, including our economic performance, which may be affected by numerous business, economic, regulatory, legislative, competitive and political uncertainties beyond our control, and certain transactions in which we might engage. For example, we may engage in transactions that produce substantial taxable income allocations to some or all of our unitholders without a corresponding increase in cash distributions to our unitholders, such as a sale or exchange of assets, the proceeds of which are reinvested in our business or used to reduce our debt, or an actual or deemed satisfaction of our indebtedness for an amount less than the adjusted issue price of the debt. A unitholder's ratio of its share of taxable income to the cash received by it may also be affected by changes in law. For instance, under the recently enacted tax reform law known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, the net interest expense deductions of certain business entities, including us, are limited to 30% of such entity's \"adjusted taxable income,\" which is generally taxable income with certain modifications. If the limit applies, a unitholder's taxable income allocations will be more (or its net loss allocations will be less) than would have been the case absent the limitation.. From time to time, in connection with an offering of our units, we may state an estimate of the ratio of federal taxable income to cash distributions that a purchaser of units in that offering may receive in a given period. These estimates depend in part on factors that are unique to the offering with respect to which the estimate is stated, so the expected ratio applicable to other units will be different, and in many cases less favorable, than these estimates. Moreover, even in the case of units purchased in the offering to which the estimate relates, the estimate may be incorrect, due to the uncertainties described above, challenges by the IRS to tax reporting positions which we adopt, or other factors. The actual ratio of taxable income to cash distributions could be higher or lower than expected, and any differences could be material and could materially affect the value of the common units.. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS contest would likely reduce our distributable cash flow to unitholders.. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the conclusions of our counsel expressed in a prospectus or from the positions we take, and the IRS's positions may ultimately be sustained. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of our counsel's conclusions or the positions we take and such positions may not ultimately be sustained. A court may not agree with some or all of our counsel's conclusions or the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS, and the outcome of any IRS contest, may have a materially adverse effect on the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS would be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner because the costs would likely reduce our distributable cash flow to our unitholders.. If the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns for tax years beginning after 2017, the IRS (and some states) may collect any resulting taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) directly from us, in which case we may require our unitholders and former unitholders to reimburse us for such taxes (including any applicable penalties or interest) or, if we are required to bear such payment, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially reduced.. Pursuant to the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, if the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns for tax years beginning after 2017, it may collect any resulting taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) directly from us. We will generally have the ability to shift any such tax liability to our general partner and our unitholders in accordance with their interests in us during the year under audit, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so (and will choose to do so) under all circumstances, or that we will be able to (or choose to) effect corresponding shifts in state income or similar tax liability resulting from the IRS adjustment in states in which we do business in the year under audit or in the adjustment year. If we make payments of taxes, penalties and interest resulting from audit adjustments, we may require our unitholders and former unitholders to reimburse us for such taxes (including any applicable penalties or interest) or, if we are required to bear such payment, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially reduced. In addition, because payment would be due during the year in which the audit is completed, unitholders during that year would bear the burden of the adjustment even if they were not unitholders during the audited taxable year.. In the event the IRS makes an audit adjustment to our income tax returns and we do not or cannot shift the liability to our unitholders in accordance with their interests in us during the year under audit, we will generally have the ability to request that the IRS reduce the determined underpayment by reducing the suspended passive loss carryovers of our unitholders (without any compensation from us to such unitholders), to the extent such underpayment is attributable to a net decrease in passive activity losses allocable to certain partners. Such reduction, if approved by the IRS, will be binding on any affected unitholders.. 52. Table of Contents. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected.. If any of our unitholders sells their common units, such unitholders must recognize a gain or loss for federal income tax purposes equal to the difference between the amount realized and such unitholder's tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of such unitholder's allocable share of our net taxable income decrease such unitholder's tax basis in such unitholder's common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the common units such unitholder sells will, in effect, become taxable income if such unitholder sells such common units at a price greater than its tax basis in those common units, even if the price such unitholder receives is less than its original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized on any sale or other disposition of such unitholder's common units, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder's share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if a unitholder sells its common units, it may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash it receives from the sale.. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning our common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them.. Investment in our common units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income (UBTI) and will be taxable to the exempt organization as UBTI on the exempt organization's tax return in the year the exempt organization is allocated the income. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file U.S. federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income.. Under the recently enacted tax reform law, if a unitholder sells or otherwise disposes of a common unit, the transferee is required to withhold 10.0% of the amount realized by the transferor unless the transferor certifies that it is not a foreign person, and we are required to deduct and withhold from the transferee amounts that should have been withheld by the transferee but were not withheld. However, the Department of the Treasury and the IRS have determined that this withholding requirement should not apply to any disposition of a publicly traded interest in a publicly traded partnership (such as us) until regulations or other guidance have been issued clarifying the application of this withholding requirement to dispositions of interests in publicly traded partnerships. Accordingly, while this new withholding requirement does not currently apply to interests in us, there can be no assurance that such requirement will not apply in the future.. If you are a tax-exempt entity or a non-U.S. person, you should consult a tax advisor before investing in our common units.. We treat each holder of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units held. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units.. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and because of other reasons, we will adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. A successful IRS challenge also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from a unitholder's sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to such unitholder's tax returns.. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction for U.S. federal income tax purposes between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction for U.S. federal income tax purposes between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The U.S. Department of the Treasury adopted final Treasury Regulations allowing a similar monthly simplifying convention for taxable years beginning on or after August 3, 2015. However, such final regulations do not specifically authorize the use of the proration method we have adopted. If the IRS were to challenge our proration method or new Treasury regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.. 53. Table of Contents. A unitholder whose common units are loaned to a \"short seller\" to cover a short sale of common units may be considered as having disposed of those common units. If so, such unitholder would no longer be treated for federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition.. Because a unitholder whose common units are loaned to a \"short seller\" to cover a short sale of common units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned common units, such unitholder may no longer be treated for federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan to the short seller and may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those common units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those common units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Therefore, our unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to consult a tax advisor to discuss whether it is advisable to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from loaning their common units.. We have adopted certain valuation methodologies and monthly conventions for U.S. federal income tax purposes that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between our general partner and our unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units.. When we issue additional units, or engage in certain other transactions, we will determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to our assets to the capital accounts of our unitholders and our general partner. Our methodology may be viewed as understating the value of our assets. In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and our general partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. Moreover, under our valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of common units may have a greater portion of their Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b) adjustment allocated to our tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to our intangible assets. The IRS may challenge our valuation methods, or our allocation of the Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to our tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of taxable income, gain, loss and deduction between our general partner and certain of our unitholders.. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of taxable gain from our unitholders' sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders' tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions.. As a result of investing in our common units, our unitholders will likely be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in jurisdictions where we operate or own or acquire properties.. In addition to federal income taxes, our unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or own property now or in the future, even if they do not live in any of those jurisdictions. Our unitholders will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, our unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We currently own property and conduct business in a number of states, most of which currently impose a personal income tax on individuals, and most of which also impose an income or similar tax on corporations and certain other entities. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own property or conduct business in additional states that impose an income tax or similar tax. In certain states, tax losses may not produce a tax benefit in the year incurred and also may not be available to offset income in subsequent tax years. Some states may require us, or we may elect, to withhold a percentage of income from amounts to be distributed to a unitholder who is not a resident of the state. Withholding, the amount of which may be greater or less than a particular unitholders' income tax liability to the state, generally does not relieve a nonresident unitholder from the obligation to file an income tax return. Amounts withheld may be treated as if distributed to unitholders for purposes of determining the amounts distributed by us.. Compliance with and changes in tax laws could adversely affect our performance.. We are subject to extensive tax laws and regulations, including federal and state income taxes and transactional taxes such as excise, sales/use, payroll, franchise and ad valorem taxes. New tax laws and regulations and changes in existing tax laws and regulations are continuously being enacted that could result in increased tax expenditures in the future. Many of these tax liabilities are subject to audits by the respective taxing authority. These audits may result in additional taxes as well as interest and penalties."
