[1] "ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. If any event arising from the risk factors set forth below occurs, Encana's business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or the trading prices of securities and in some cases its reputation could be materially adversely affected. When assessing the materiality of the foregoing risk factors, Encana takes into account a number of qualitative and quantitative factors, including, but not limited to, financial, operational, environmental, regulatory, reputational and safety aspects of the identified risk factor.. A substantial or extended decline in natural gas, oil or NGLs prices and price differentials could have a material adverse effect on Encana's financial condition.. Encana's financial performance and condition are substantially dependent on the prevailing prices of natural gas, oil and NGLs. Low natural gas, oil or NGLs prices and significant U.S. and Canadian price differentials will have an adverse effect on the Company's operations and financial condition and the value and amount of its reserves. Prices for natural gas, oil or NGLs fluctuate in response to changes in the supply and demand for natural gas, oil or NGLs, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors beyond the Company's control.. Natural gas prices realized by Encana are affected primarily by North American supply and demand, weather conditions, transportation and infrastructure constraints, prices and availability of alternate sources of energy (including refined products, coal, and renewable energy initiatives) and by technological advances affecting energy consumption. Oil prices are largely determined by international and domestic supply and demand. Factors which affect oil prices include the actions of the OPEC, world economic conditions, government regulation, political stability in the Middle East and elsewhere, the foreign and domestic supply of oil, the price of foreign imports, the availability of alternate fuel sources, transportation and infrastructure constraints and weather conditions. Historically, NGLs prices have generally been correlated with oil prices, and are determined based on supply and demand in international and domestic NGLs markets.. A substantial or extended decline in the price of natural gas, oil or NGLs could result in a delay or cancellation of existing or future drilling, development or construction programs or curtailment or shut-in of production at some properties or could result in unutilized long-term transportation and drilling commitments, all of which could have an adverse effect on the Company's revenues, profitability and cash flows.. Natural gas and oil producers in North America, and particularly in Canada, currently receive discounted prices for their production relative to certain international prices due to constraints on their ability to transport and sell such production to international markets. A failure to resolve such constraints may result in continued discounted or reduced commodity prices realized by natural gas and oil producers, including Encana.. On at least an annual basis, Encana conducts an assessment of the carrying value of its assets in accordance with the applicable accounting standards. If natural gas, oil or NGLs prices decline further, the carrying value of Encana's assets could be subject to financial downward revisions, and the Company's net earnings could be adversely affected.. Encana's ability to operate and complete projects is dependent on factors outside of its control which may have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition or results of operations.. The Company's ability to operate, generate sufficient cash flows, and complete projects depends upon numerous factors beyond the Company's control. In addition to commodity prices and continued market demand for its products, these non-controllable factors include general business and market conditions, economic recessions and financial market turmoil, the overall state of the capital markets, including investor appetite for investments in the oil and gas industry generally and the Company's securities in particular, the ability to secure and maintain cost effective financing for its commitments, legislative, environmental and regulatory matters, changes to free trade agreements, including the North American Free Trade Agreement (\"NAFTA\"), reliance on industry partners and service providers, unexpected cost increases, royalties, taxes, including the impact of recent U.S. tax reform and potential U.S. Treasury Department regulations and guidance, volatility in natural gas, oil or NGLs prices, the availability of drilling and other equipment, the ability to access lands, the ability to access water for hydraulic fracturing operations, physical impacts from adverse weather conditions and other natural disasters, the availability and proximity of processing and pipeline capacity, transportation interruptions and constraints, technology failures, accidents, the availability of skilled labour and reservoir quality. In addition, some of these risks may be magnified due to the concentrated nature of funding certain assets within the Company's portfolio of oil and natural gas. 24. Table of Contents. properties that are operated within limited geographic areas. As a result, a number of the Company's assets could experience any of the same risks and conditions at the same time, resulting in a relatively greater impact on the Company's financial condition and results of operations compared to other companies that may have a more geographically diversified portfolio of properties.. Fluctuations in natural gas, oil or NGLs prices can create fiscal challenges for the oil and gas industry. These conditions have impacted companies in the oil and gas industry and the Company's spending and operating plans and may continue to do so in the future. There may be unexpected business impacts from market uncertainty, including volatile changes in currency exchange rates, inflation, interest rates, defaults of suppliers and general levels of investing and consuming activity, as well as a potential impact on the Company's credit ratings, which could affect its liquidity and ability to obtain financing.. The Company undertakes a variety of projects including exploration and development projects and the construction or expansion of facilities and pipelines. Project delays may delay expected revenues and project cost overruns could make projects uneconomic.. All of Encana's operations are subject to regulation and intervention by governments that can affect or prohibit the drilling, completion and tie-in of wells, production, the construction or expansion of facilities and the operation and abandonment of fields. Contract rights can be cancelled or expropriated. Changes to government regulation could impact the Company's existing and planned projects.. Encana's proved reserves are estimates and any material inaccuracies in our reserves estimates or assumptions underlying our reserves estimates could cause quantities and net present value of our reserves to be overstated or understated.. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of natural gas, oil and NGLs reserves, including many factors beyond the Company's control. The reserves data in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other published reserves and resources data represents estimates only. In general, estimates of economically recoverable natural gas, oil and NGLs reserves and the future net cash flows therefrom are based upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, such as commodity prices, future operating and capital costs, availability of future capital, historical production from the properties and the assumed effects of regulation by governmental agencies, including with respect to royalty payments, all of which may vary considerably from actual results. All such estimates are to some degree uncertain, and classifications of reserves and resources are only attempts to define the degree of uncertainty involved.. For those reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable natural gas, oil and NGLs reserves attributable to any particular group of properties, classification of such reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of future net revenues expected therefrom, prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers at different times, may vary substantially. Encana's actual production, revenues, taxes and development and operating expenditures with respect to its reserves may vary from such estimates, and such variances could be material. Estimates with respect to reserves that may be developed and produced in the future are often based upon volumetric calculations and upon analogy to similar types of reserves, rather than upon actual production history. Estimates based on these methods generally are less reliable than those based on actual production history. Subsequent evaluation of the same reserves based upon production history will result in variations, which may be material, in the estimated reserves.. The estimates of reserves included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are prepared in accordance with SEC regulations and require, subject to limited exceptions, that proved undeveloped reserves may only be classified as proved reserves if the related wells are scheduled to be drilled within five years after the date of booking. Reserves to be developed and produced in the future are based upon certain expectations and assumptions, including the allocation of capital, which may be subject to change. Proved undeveloped reserves may be reclassified to unproved due to delays in the development of reserves, or projects becoming uneconomical due to increases in costs to drill such reserves, or lower future net revenues from further decreases in commodity prices.. Commodity prices used to estimate reserves included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are calculated as the average oil and natural gas price during the 12 months ending in the current reporting period, determined as the unweighted arithmetic average of prices on the first day of each month within the 12-month period. Significant future price changes can have a material effect on the quantity and value of the Company's proved reserves. The standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K will not represent the current market value of Encana's. 25. Table of Contents. estimated reserves. In addition, these reserve estimates do not include any value for probable or possible reserves that may exist, nor do they include any value for unproved undeveloped acreage.. If Encana fails to acquire or find additional reserves, the Company's reserves and production will decline materially from their current levels.. Encana's future oil, NGLs and natural gas reserves and production, and therefore its cash flows, are highly dependent upon its success in developing its current reserves base and acquiring, discovering or developing additional reserves. Without reserves additions through exploration, acquisition or development activities, the Company's reserves and production will decline over time as reserves are depleted.. The business of exploring for, developing or acquiring reserves is capital intensive. In addition, part of Encana's strategy is focused on a limited number of core assets which results in a concentration of capital and increased potential risks. To the extent that cash flows from the Company's operations are insufficient and external sources of capital become limited, Encana's ability to make the necessary capital investments to maintain and expand its natural gas, oil and NGLs reserves and production will be impaired. In addition, there can be no certainty that Encana will be able to find and develop or acquire additional reserves to replace production at acceptable costs.. In addition, Encana's operations utilize horizontal multi-pad drilling, tighter drill spacing and completions techniques that evolve over time as learnings are captured and applied. The use of this technology may increase the risk of unintentional communication with other wells and the potential for acceleration of current reserves or an increase in recovery factor from the reservoir. If drilling and completions results are less than anticipated, the production volumes may be lower than anticipated.. The Company's business is subject to environmental regulation in all jurisdictions in which it operates and any changes in such regulation could negatively affect its results of operations.. All phases of the natural gas, oil and NGLs businesses are subject to environmental regulation pursuant to a variety of Canadian, U.S. and other federal, provincial, territorial, tribal, state and municipal laws and regulations (collectively, \"environmental regulation\").. Environmental regulation imposes, among other things, restrictions, liabilities and obligations in connection with the use, generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of chemicals, hazardous substances and waste associated with the finding, production, transmission and storage of the Company's products including the hydraulic fracturing of wells, the decommissioning of facilities and in connection with spills, releases and emissions of various substances to the environment. It also imposes restrictions, liabilities and obligations in connection with the availability and management of fresh, potable or brackish water sources that are being used, or whose use is contemplated, in connection with natural gas and oil operations.. Environmental regulation also requires that wells, facility sites and other properties associated with Encana's operations be operated, maintained, abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of applicable regulatory authorities. In addition, certain types of operations, including exploration and development projects and changes to certain existing projects, may require the submission and approval of environmental impact assessments or permit applications. Compliance with environmental regulation can require significant expenditures, including expenditures for clean-up costs and damages arising out of contaminated properties and failure to comply with environmental regulation may result in the imposition of fines and penalties.. Although it is not expected that the costs of complying with environmental regulation will have a material adverse effect on Encana's financial condition or results of operations, no assurance can be made that the costs of complying with environmental regulation in the future will not have such an effect as discussed below.. Climate Change - A number of federal, provincial and state governments have announced intentions to regulate greenhouse gases and certain air pollutants. These governments are currently developing regulatory and policy frameworks to deliver on their announcements. The Canadian federal government along with certain provinces and territories, including Alberta and British Columbia, have announced a pan-Canadian climate change framework that is consistent with the outcome reached at the 21st Conference of the Parties in Paris and which includes imposing an economy wide cost on carbon emissions in Canada. 26. Table of Contents. by 2023. The Alberta government outlined its Climate Leadership Plan which includes four key areas, one of which is targeting a 45 percent reduction in methane gas emissions from oil and gas operations by 2025, to be achieved through equipment replacement and leak detection and repair regulations. Both Alberta and British Columbia have implemented a provincial carbon tax; Alberta introduced a carbon levy in January 2017 of C$20 per tonne of CO2e, increasing to C$30 per tonne of CO2e in 2018 while British Columbia has an established carbon levy of C$30 per tonne of CO2e, increasing by C$5 per tonne of CO2e per year starting April 1, 2018 until it reaches C$50 per tonne of CO2e in 2021. In the United States, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (\"EPA\") has proposed to delay the implementation of rules currently in effect that regulate methane emissions from the oil and gas industry. As part of the proposed delay, the EPA intends to evaluate whether to regulate oil and gas methane emissions directly or as a co-benefit of regulating volatile organic compounds. Encana's cost of complying with emerging climate and cost of carbon regulations is not currently forecast to be material to the Company, however as these and additional federal and regional programs are in their early implementation stage or under development, Encana is unable to predict the total future impact of the potential regulations upon its business. Therefore, it is possible that the Company could face future increases in operating costs in order to comply with legislation governing emissions. Further, certain local governments, stakeholders and other groups have made claims against companies in the oil and gas industry, including the Company, relating to the purported causes and impact of climate change. These claims have, among other things, resulted in litigation, shareholder proposals and local ballot initiatives targeted against certain companies and the oil and gas industry generally. As these claims are in their early stages, the Company is unable to assess the impact of such claims on its business, but the defense of such matters may be costly and time consuming and could have a material adverse effect on the Company's reputation.. Hydraulic Fracturing - The U.S. and Canadian federal governments and certain U.S. state and Canadian provincial governments continue to review certain aspects of the scientific, regulatory and policy framework under which hydraulic fracturing operations are conducted. Most of these governments are primarily engaged in the collection, review and assessment of technical information regarding the hydraulic fracturing process and have not provided specific details with respect to any significant actual, proposed or contemplated changes to the hydraulic fracturing regulatory construct. However, certain environmental and other groups continue to suggest that additional federal, provincial, territorial, state and municipal laws and regulations may be needed to more closely regulate the hydraulic fracturing process, and have made claims that hydraulic fracturing techniques are harmful to surface water and drinking water sources.. Further, certain governments in jurisdictions where the Company does not currently operate have considered or implemented moratoriums on hydraulic fracturing until further studies can be completed and some governments have adopted, and others have considered adopting, regulations that could impose more stringent permitting, disclosure and well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations. Any new laws, regulations or permitting requirements regarding hydraulic fracturing could lead to operational delays, increased operating costs or third party or governmental claims, and could increase the Company's cost of compliance and doing business as well as reduce the amount of natural gas and oil that the Company is ultimately able to produce from its reserves. The Company recognizes that additional hydraulic fracturing ballot initiatives and/or local rule-making limiting or restricting oil and gas development activities are a possibility in the future.. As these federal and regional programs are in their early implementation stage or under development, Encana is unable to predict the total impact of the potential regulations upon its business. Therefore, it is possible that the Company could face increases in operating costs or curtailment of production in order to comply with legislation governing hydraulic fracturing.. Seismic Activity  -  Some areas of North America are experiencing increasing localized frequency of seismic activity which has been associated with oil and gas operations. Although the occurrence of seismicity in relation to oil and gas operations is generally very low, it has been linked to deep disposal of wastewater in the United States and has been correlated with hydraulic fracturing in Western Canada which has prompted legislative and regulatory initiatives intended to address these concerns. These initiatives have the potential to require additional monitoring, restrict the injection of produced water in certain disposal wells and/or modify or curtail hydraulic fracturing operations which could lead to operational delays, increase compliance costs or otherwise adversely impact the Company's operations.. Encana's risk management activities may prevent the Company from fully benefiting from price increases and expose us to other risks.. The nature of the Company's operations results in exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. The Company monitors its exposure to such fluctuations and, where the Company deems it appropriate,. 27. Table of Contents. utilizes derivative financial instruments and physical delivery contracts to mitigate the potential impact of declines in natural gas, oil or NGLs prices and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.. Under U.S. GAAP, derivative financial instruments that do not qualify or are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes are fair valued with the resulting changes recognized in current period net earnings. The utilization of derivative financial instruments may therefore introduce significant volatility into the Company's reported net earnings.. The terms of the Company's various risk management agreements and the amount of estimated production hedged may limit the benefit to the Company of commodity price increases. The Company may also suffer financial loss if the Company is unable to produce natural gas, oil or NGLs, or if counterparties to the Company's risk management agreements fail to fulfill their obligations under the agreements, particularly during periods of declining commodity prices.. Downgrades in Encana's credit ratings could increase its cost of capital and limit its access to capital, suppliers or counterparties.. Rating agencies regularly evaluate the Company, basing their ratings of its long-term and short-term debt on a number of factors. This includes the Company's financial strength as well as factors not entirely within its control, including conditions affecting the oil and gas industry generally and the wider state of the economy. One of the Company's credit ratings is below an investment-grade credit rating. There can be no assurance that the Company's other credit ratings will not also be downgraded, including below an investment-grade credit rating.. The Company's borrowing costs and ability to raise funds are directly impacted by its credit ratings. A downgrade may increase the cost of borrowing under the Company's existing credit facilities, limit access to private and public markets to raise short-term and long-term debt, and negatively impact the Company's cost of capital. Further, as a result of one of the Company's credit ratings being below investment grade, access to the Company's U.S. commercial paper program has been eliminated.. Credit ratings may also be important to suppliers or counterparties when they seek to engage in certain transactions. Downgrades in one or more of the Company's credit ratings below investment-grade may require the Company to post collateral, letters of credit, cash or other forms of security as financial assurance of the Company's performance under certain contractual arrangements with marketing counterparties, facility construction contracts, and pipeline and midstream service providers. Additionally, certain of these arrangements contain financial assurance language that may, under certain circumstances, permit the Company's counterparties to request additional collateral.. In connection with certain over-the-counter derivatives contracts and other trading agreements, the Company could be required to provide additional collateral or to terminate transactions with certain counterparties based on its credit rating. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could adversely affect the Company's ability to execute portions of its business strategy, including hedging, and could have a material adverse effect on its liquidity and capital position.. The Company's level of indebtedness may limit its financial flexibility.. As at December 31, 2017, the Company had total long-term debt of $4,197 million and no outstanding balance under its revolving credit facilities. The terms of the Company's various financing arrangements, including but not limited to the indentures relating to its outstanding senior notes and its revolving credit facilities, impose restrictions on its ability and, in some cases, the ability of the Company's subsidiaries, to take a number of actions that it or they may otherwise desire to take, including: (i) incurring additional debt, including guarantees of indebtedness; (ii) creating liens on the Company's or its subsidiaries' assets; and (iii) selling certain of the Company's or its subsidiaries' assets.. The Company's level of indebtedness could affect its operations by:.     requiring it to dedicate a portion of cash flows from operations to service its indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow for other purposes;.     reducing its competitiveness compared to similar companies that have less debt;.     limiting its ability to obtain additional future financing for working capital, capital investments and acquisitions;.     limiting its flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and industry; and.     increasing its vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions.. 28. Table of Contents. The Company's ability to meet its debt obligations and service those debt obligations depends on future performance. General economic conditions, natural gas, oil or NGLs prices, and financial, business and other factors affect the Company's operations and future performance. Many of these factors are beyond the Company's control. If the Company is unable to satisfy its obligations with cash on hand, the Company could attempt to refinance debt or repay debt with proceeds from a public offering of securities or selling certain assets. No assurance can be given that the Company will be able to generate sufficient cash flow to pay the interest obligations on its debt, or that funds from future borrowings, equity financings or proceeds from the sale of assets will be available to pay or refinance its debt, or on terms that will be favourable to the Company. Further, future acquisitions may decrease the Company's liquidity by using a significant portion of its available cash or borrowing capacity to finance such acquisitions, and such acquisitions could result in a significant increase in the Company's interest expense or financial leverage if it incurs additional debt to finance such acquisitions.. Encana's operations are subject to the risk of business interruption, property and casualty losses. The Company's insurance may not fully protect us against these risks and liabilities.. The Company's business is subject to the operating risks normally associated with the exploration for, development of and production of natural gas, oil and NGLs and the operation of midstream facilities. These risks include blowouts, explosions, fire, gaseous leaks, migration of harmful substances and liquid spills, loss of well control, surface spills and uncontrolled ground releases of fluids during hydraulic fracturing or other similar activities, and acts of vandalism and terrorism, any of which could cause personal injury, result in damage to, or destruction of, natural gas and oil wells or formations or production facilities and other property, equipment and the environment, as well as interrupt operations.. In addition, all of Encana's operations will be subject to all of the risks normally incident to the transportation, processing, storing and marketing of natural gas, oil, NGLs and other related products, drilling and completion of natural gas and oil wells, and the operation and development of natural gas and oil properties, including encountering unexpected formations or pressures, premature declines of reservoir pressure or productivity, blowouts, equipment failures and other accidents, sour gas releases, uncontrollable flows of natural gas, oil or well fluids, adverse weather conditions and other natural disasters, spills and migration of hazardous chemicals, pollution and other environmental risks.. The Company has become increasingly dependent upon information technology systems to conduct daily operations. The Company depends on various information technology systems to estimate reserve quantities, process and record financial and operating data, analyze seismic and drilling information, and communicate with employees and third-party partners. Unauthorized access to these systems by employees or third parties could lead to corruption or exposure of confidential, fiduciary or proprietary information, interruption to communications or operations or disruption to the Company's business activities or its competitive position. The Company applies technical and process controls in line with industry-accepted standards to protect its information assets and systems and are reviewed by the appropriate senior management with oversight from the Company's Board of Directors; however these controls may not adequately prevent cyber-security breaches. There is no assurance that the Company will not suffer losses associated with cyber-security breaches in the future, and the Company may be required to expend significant additional resources to investigate, mitigate and remediate any potential vulnerabilities.. We maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks and losses. The occurrence of a significant event against the Company which Encana is not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial position.. Encana is dependent on partners to fund development projects conducted through joint ventures and partnerships, which if such funding is unavailable may adversely affect the Company's operations and financial condition.. Some of Encana's projects are conducted through joint ventures, partnerships or other arrangements, where Encana is dependent on its partners to fund their contractual share of the capital and operating expenditures related to such projects. If these partners do not approve or are unable to fund their contractual share of certain capital or operating expenditures, suspend or terminate such arrangements or otherwise fulfill their obligations, this may result in project delays or additional future costs to Encana, all of which may affect the viability of such projects.. These partners may also have strategic plans, objectives and interests that do not coincide with and may conflict with those of Encana. While certain operational decisions may be made solely at the discretion of Encana in its capacity as operator of certain projects, major capital and strategic decisions affecting such projects may require agreement among the partners. While Encana and its partners generally seek consensus with respect to major decisions concerning the direction and. 29. Table of Contents. operation of the project assets, no assurance can be provided that the future demands or expectations of any party, including Encana, relating to such assets will be met satisfactorily or in a timely manner. Failure to satisfactorily meet such demands or expectations may affect Encana's or its partners' participation in the operation of such assets or the timing for undertaking various activities, which could negatively affect Encana's operations and financial results. Further, Encana is involved from time to time in disputes with its partners and, as such, it may be unable to dispose of assets or interests in certain arrangements if such disputes cannot be resolved in a satisfactory or timely manner.. Encana may not realize anticipated benefits or be subject to unknown risks from acquisitions.. Encana has completed a number of acquisitions in order to strengthen its position and to create the opportunity to realize certain benefits, including, among other things, potential cost savings. Achieving the benefits of acquisitions depends in part on successfully consolidating functions and integrating operations and procedures in a timely and efficient manner, as well as being able to realize the anticipated growth opportunities and synergies from combining the acquired businesses and operations. Acquisitions could also result in difficulties in being able to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate such properties.. Acquiring oil and natural gas properties requires the Company to assess reservoir and infrastructure characteristics, including estimated recoverable reserves, type curve performance and future production, commodity prices, revenues, development and operating costs and potential environmental and other liabilities. Such assessments are inexact and inherently uncertain and, as such, the acquired properties may not produce as expected, may not have the anticipated reserves and may be subject to increased costs and liabilities.. Although the acquired properties are reviewed prior to completion of an acquisition, such reviews are not capable of identifying all existing or potentially adverse conditions. This risk may be magnified where the acquired properties are in geographic areas where the Company has not historically operated or in new or emerging formations. New or emerging formations and areas often have limited or no production history and the Company may be less able to predict future drilling and production results over the life-cycles of the wells in such areas. Further, the Company also may not be able to obtain or realize upon contractual indemnities from the seller for liabilities created prior to an acquisition and it may be required to assume the risk of the physical condition of the properties that may not perform in accordance with its expectations.. The Company may be unable to dispose of certain assets and may be required to retain liabilities for certain matters.. The Company may identify certain assets for disposition, which could increase capital available for other activities or reduce the Company's existing indebtedness. Various factors could materially affect the Company's ability to dispose of those assets or complete announced transactions, including current commodity prices, the availability of purchasers willing to purchase certain assets at prices and on terms acceptable to the Company, approval by the Board of Directors, associated asset retirement obligations, due diligence, favourable market conditions, the assignability of joint venture, partnership or other arrangements and stock exchange, regulatory and third party approvals. These factors may also reduce the proceeds or value to Encana.. The Company may also retain certain liabilities for certain matters in a sale transaction. The magnitude of any such retained liabilities or indemnification obligations may be difficult to quantify at the time of the transaction and could ultimately be material. Further, certain third parties may be unwilling to release the Company from guarantees or other credit support provided prior to the sale of the divested assets. As a result, after the sale of certain assets, the Company may remain secondarily liable for the obligations guaranteed or supported to the extent that the purchaser of the assets fails to perform its obligations.. The decision to pay dividends and the amount of such dividends is subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors based on numerous factors and may vary from time to time.. Although the Company currently intends to pay quarterly cash dividends to its shareholders, these cash dividends may vary from time to time and could be increased, reduced or suspended. The amount of cash available to the Company to pay dividends, if any, can vary significantly from period to period for a number of reasons, including, among other things: Encana's operational and financial performance; fluctuations in the costs to produce natural gas, oil and NGLs; the amount of cash required or retained for debt service or repayment; amounts required to fund capital expenditures and working capital. 30. Table of Contents. requirements; access to equity markets; foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates; and the risk factors set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. The decision whether or not to pay dividends and the amount of any such dividends are subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors, which regularly evaluates the Company's proposed dividend payments and the solvency test requirements of the CBCA. In addition, the level of dividends per common share will be affected by the number of outstanding common shares and other securities that may be entitled to receive cash dividends or other payments. Dividends may be increased, reduced or suspended depending on the Company's operational success and the performance of its assets. The market value of the common shares may deteriorate if the Company is unable to meet dividend expectations in the future, and that deterioration may be material.. Changes to existing regulations related to income tax laws, royalty regimes, environmental laws or other regulations could adversely affect the Company's business, financial position, cash flows or results of operations.. Income tax laws, including recent U.S. tax reform and potential U.S. Treasury Department regulations and guidance, royalty regimes, environmental laws or other laws and regulations, and free trade agreements, including NAFTA, may change or be interpreted in a manner that adversely affects the Company or its securityholders. Tax authorities having jurisdiction over the Company or its shareholders could change their administrative practices, or may disagree with the manner in which the Company calculates its tax liabilities or structures its arrangements, to the detriment of the Company or its securityholders. Changes to existing laws and regulations or the adoption of new laws and regulations could also increase the Company's cost of compliance and adversely affect the Company's business, financial position, cash flows or results of operations.. Encana does not operate all of its properties and assets and has limited control over factors that could adversely affect the Company's financial performance.. Other companies operate a portion of the assets in which Encana has ownership interests. Encana may have limited ability to exercise influence over operation of these assets or their associated costs. Encana's dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these properties and assets, and its limited ability to influence operations and associated costs, could materially adversely affect the Company's financial performance. The success and timing of Encana's activities on assets operated by others therefore will depend upon factors that are outside of the Company's control, including timing and amount of capital expenditures, timing and amount of operating and maintenance expenditures, the operator's expertise and financial resources, approval of other participants, selection of technology and risk management practices.. Fluctuations in exchange rates could affect expenses or result in realized and unrealized losses.. Worldwide prices for natural gas and oil are set in U.S. dollars. Although Encana's financial results are consolidated in Canadian dollars, the Company reports its financial results in U.S. dollars. As Encana operates in both Canada and the U.S., many of the Company's expenses are incurred outside of the U.S. and are denominated in Canadian dollars. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Canadian dollar could impact the Company's revenue and expenses and have an adverse effect on the Company's financial performance and condition.. In addition, the Company has U.S. dollar denominated long-term debt. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Canadian dollar could result in realized and unrealized losses on U.S. dollar denominated long-term debt.. The inability of our customers and other contractual counterparties to satisfy their obligations to us may have a material adverse effect on us.. Encana is exposed to the risks associated with counterparty performance including credit risk and performance risk. Encana may experience material financial losses in the event of customer payment default for commodity sales and financial derivative transactions. Encana's liquidity may also be impacted if any lender under the Company's existing credit facilities is unable to fund its commitment. Performance risk can impact Encana's operations by the non-delivery of contracted products or services by counterparties, which could impact project timelines or operational efficiency.. 31. Table of Contents. The Company is subject to claims, litigation, administrative proceedings and regulatory actions that may not be resolved in the Company's favour.. Encana may be subject to claims, litigation, administrative proceedings and regulatory actions. The outcome of these matters may be difficult to assess or quantify, and there cannot be any assurance that such matters will be resolved in the Company's favour. If Encana is unable to resolve such matters favourably, the Company or its directors, officers or employees may become involved in legal proceedings that could result in an onerous or unfavourable decision, including fines, sanctions, monetary damages or the inability to engage in certain operations or transactions. The defence of such matters may also be costly and time consuming, and could divert the attention of management and key personnel from the Company's operations. Encana may also be subject to adverse publicity associated with such matters, regardless of whether such allegations are valid or whether the Company is ultimately found liable. As a result, such matters could have a material adverse effect on the Company's reputation, financial position, results of operations or liquidity. See Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Encana relies on certain key personnel, and if the Company is unable to attract and retain key personnel necessary for its business, Encana's operations may be negatively impacted.. The Company relies on certain key personnel for the development of its business. The experience, knowledge and contributions of the Company's existing management team and directors to the immediate and near-term operations and direction of the Company are likely to continue to be of central importance for the foreseeable future. As such, the unexpected loss of services from or retirement of such key personnel could have a material adverse effect on the Company. In addition, the competition for qualified personnel in the oil and gas industry means there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to attract and retain such personnel with the required specialized skills necessary for its business.. Encana has certain indemnification obligations to certain counterparties that could have a material adverse effect on Encana.. Encana has agreed to indemnify or be indemnified by numerous counterparties for certain liabilities and obligations associated with businesses or assets retained or transferred by the Company. Specifically, in relation to a corporate reorganization to split into two independent publicly traded energy companies, Encana and Cenovus Energy Inc. (\"Cenovus\") have each agreed to indemnify the other for certain liabilities and obligations associated with, among other things, in the case of Encana's indemnity, the business and assets retained by Encana, and in the case of Cenovus's indemnity, the business and assets transferred to Cenovus. Encana also has indemnification obligations under certain acquisition and divestiture activities it has undertaken.. Encana cannot determine whether it will be required to indemnify certain counterparties for any substantial obligations. Encana also cannot be assured that, if a counterparty is required to indemnify Encana and its affiliates for any substantial obligations, such counterparties will be able to satisfy such obligations. Any indemnification claims against Encana pursuant to the provisions of the transaction agreements could have a material adverse effect on Encana."
