[1] "Item 1A - Risk Factors. There are risks and uncertainties in our business that could cause our actual results to differ from those anticipated. We urge you to read these risk factors carefully in connection with evaluating our business and in connection with the forward-looking statements and other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of the risks described herein could affect our business, financial condition, or future results and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made. The list of risks is not intended to be exhaustive, and the order in which the risks appear is not intended as an indication of their relative weight or importance. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us, or that we currently deem to be immaterial, also may adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results.. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. Financial and economic conditions affect the ability of consumers to pay their obligations, which could harm our financial results.. Economic conditions globally and locally directly affect unemployment, credit availability, and real estate values. Adverse conditions, economic changes, and financial disruptions place financial pressure on the consumer, which may reduce our ability to collect on our consumer receivable portfolios and may adversely affect the value of our consumer receivable portfolios. Further, increased financial pressures on the financially distressed consumer may result in additional regulatory requirements or restrictions on our operations and increased litigation filed against us. These conditions could increase our costs and harm our business, financial condition, and operating results.. Our operating results may be affected by factors that could cause them to fluctuate significantly in the future.. Our operating results will likely vary in the future due to a variety of factors that could affect our revenues and operating expenses. We expect that our operating expenses as a percentage of collections will fluctuate in the future as we expand into new markets, increase our business development efforts, hire additional personnel, and incur increased insurance and regulatory compliance costs. In addition, our operating results have fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate as a result of the factors described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K:. • the timing and ability of consumers to make payments, including the effects of seasonality and macroeconomic conditions on their ability to pay;. • any charge to earnings resulting from an allowance against the carrying value of our receivable portfolios;. 12. Table of Contents. • increases in operating expenses associated with the growth or change of our operations or compliance with increased regulatory and other legal requirements;. • the cost of credit; and. • the supply of receivables portfolios for sale on acceptable terms.. Because we recognize revenue on the basis of projected collections on purchased portfolios, we may experience variations in quarterly revenue and earnings due to the timing of portfolio purchases.. We may not be able to purchase receivables at favorable prices, which could limit our growth or profitability.. Our ability to continue to operate profitably depends upon the continued availability of receivable portfolios that meet our purchasing standards and are cost-effective based upon projected collections exceeding our costs. Due, in part, to fluctuating prices for receivable portfolios and competition within the marketplace, there has been considerable variation in our purchasing volume and pricing from quarter to quarter and we expect that to continue. The volume of our portfolio purchases may be limited when prices are high, and may or may not increase when portfolio pricing is more favorable to us. Further, our rates of return may decline when portfolio prices are high. We do not know how long portfolios will be available for purchase on terms acceptable to us, or at all.. The availability of receivable portfolios at favorable prices depends on a number of factors, including:. • defaults in consumer debt;. • continued origination of loans by originating institutions at sufficient volumes;. • continued sale of receivable portfolios by originating institutions and portfolio resellers at sufficient volumes and acceptable price levels;. • competition in the marketplace;. • our ability to develop and maintain favorable relationships with key major credit originators and portfolio resellers;. • our ability to obtain adequate data from credit originators or portfolio resellers to appropriately evaluate the collectability of, estimate the value of, and collect on portfolios; and. • changes in laws and regulations governing consumer lending, bankruptcy, and collections.. We enter into \"forward flow\" contracts, which are commitments to purchase receivables over a duration that is typically three to twelve months with a specifically defined volume, frequency, and pricing. In periods of decreasing prices, we may end up paying an amount higher for such debt portfolios in a forward flow contract than we would otherwise agree to pay at the time for a spot purchase, which could result in reduced returns.  We would likely only be able to terminate such forward flow agreements in certain limited circumstances.. In addition, because of the length of time involved in collecting charged-off consumer receivables on acquired portfolios and the volatility in the timing of our collections, we may not be able to identify trends and make changes in our purchasing strategies in a timely manner. Ultimately, if we are unable to continually purchase and collect on a sufficient volume of receivables to generate cash collections that exceed our costs or to generate satisfactory returns, our business, financial condition and operating results will be adversely affected.. A significant portion of our portfolio purchases during any period may be concentrated with a small number of sellers, which could adversely affect our volume and timing of purchases.. A significant percentage of our portfolio purchases for any given fiscal quarter or year may be concentrated with a few large sellers, some of which may also involve forward flow arrangements. We cannot be certain that any of our significant sellers will continue to sell charged-off receivables to us on terms or in quantities acceptable to us, or that we would be able to replace these purchases with purchases from other sellers.. A significant decrease in the volume of purchases available from any of our principal sellers on terms acceptable to us would force us to seek alternative sources of charged-off receivables. Further, we have historically complemented our portfolio purchases from credit originators by purchasing portfolios from resellers or through the acquisition of portfolios from competitors looking to exit the market. As consolidation in the market continues, there may be fewer competitors to acquire on favorable terms. In addition, as the regulatory market continues to evolve, increased documentation requirements for collecting. 13. Table of Contents. on portfolios may make purchasing accounts through resellers more difficult. Several larger issuers have also begun to prohibit resale of portfolios.. We may be unable to find alternative sources from which to purchase charged-off receivables, and even if we could successfully replace these purchases, the search could take time and the receivables could be of lower quality, cost more, or both, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. We face intense competition that could impair our ability to maintain or grow our purchasing volumes.. The charged-off receivables purchasing market is highly competitive and fragmented. We compete with a wide range of other purchasers of charged-off consumer receivables. To the extent our competitors are able to better maximize recoveries on their assets or are willing to accept lower rates of return, we may not be able to grow or sustain our purchasing volumes or we may be forced to acquire portfolios at expected rates of return lower than our historical rates of return. Some of our competitors may obtain alternative sources of financing at more favorable rates than those available to us, the proceeds from which may be used to fund expansion and to increase the amount of charged-off receivables they purchase.. Barriers to entry into the consumer debt collection industry have traditionally been low. More recently, increased regulatory standards have made entry into the market more difficult and have resulted in sellers of charged-off consumer receivables being more selective with buyers in the marketplace. Companies with greater financial resources than we have may elect at a future date to enter the market for charged-off consumer receivables. We believe that the entrance of new market participants in our industry could lead to additional upward pricing pressure on charged-off consumer receivables as a result of increased demand, but also because new purchasers may pay higher prices for the portfolios than more experienced purchasers would due to a lack of experience, data and analytics necessary to properly assess risks and return potential of the portfolios or a desire to add size to their existing operations.. We face bidding competition in our acquisition of charged-off consumer receivables. We believe that successful bids are predominantly awarded based on price and, to a lesser extent, based on service, reputation, and relationships with the sellers of charged-off receivables. Some of our current competitors, and potential new competitors, may have more effective pricing and collection models, greater adaptability to changing market needs, and more established relationships in our industry than we do. Moreover, our competitors may elect to pay prices for portfolios that we determine are not economically sustainable and, in that event, we may not be able to continue to offer competitive bids for charged-off receivables.. If we are unable to develop and expand our business or to adapt to changing market needs as well as our current or future competitors, we may experience reduced access to portfolios of charged-off consumer receivables in sufficient face value amounts at appropriate prices, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. We may purchase receivable portfolios that are unprofitable or we may not be able to collect sufficient amounts to recover our costs and to fund our operations.. We acquire and service charged-off receivables that the obligors have failed to pay and the sellers have deemed uncollectible and have written off. The originating institutions and/or portfolio resellers generally make numerous attempts to recover on these nonperforming receivables, often using a combination of their in-house collection and legal departments, as well as third-party collection agencies. In order to operate profitably over the long term, we must continually purchase and collect on a sufficient volume of charged-off receivables to generate revenue that exceeds our costs. These receivables are difficult to collect, and we may not be successful in collecting amounts sufficient to cover the costs associated with purchasing the receivables and funding our operations. If we are not able to collect on these receivables, collect sufficient amounts to cover our costs or generate satisfactory returns, this may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. We may experience losses on portfolios consisting of new types of receivables or receivables in new geographies due to our lack of collection experience with these receivables, which could harm our business, financial condition and operating results.. We continually look for opportunities to expand the classes of assets that make up the portfolios we acquire. Therefore, we may acquire portfolios consisting of assets with which we have little or no collection experience or portfolios of receivables in new geographies where we do not historically maintain an operational footprint. Our lack of experience with these assets may hinder our ability to generate expected levels of profits from these portfolios. Further, our existing methods of collections may prove ineffective for these new receivables, and we may not be able to collect on these portfolios. Our inexperience with these receivables may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. 14. Table of Contents. The statistical models we use to project remaining cash flows from our receivable portfolios may prove to be inaccurate and, if so, our financial results may be adversely affected.. We use internally developed models to project the remaining cash flows from our receivable portfolios. These models consider known data about our consumers' accounts, including, among other things, our collection experience and changes in external consumer factors, in addition to data known when we acquired the accounts. However, we may not be able to achieve the collections forecasted by our models. If we are not able to achieve the levels of forecasted collection, our revenues will be reduced or we may be required to record an allowance charge, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. A significant portion of our collections relies upon our success in individual lawsuits brought against consumers and our ability to collect on judgments in our favor.. We generate a significant portion of our revenue by collecting on judgments that are granted by courts in lawsuits filed against consumers. A decrease in the willingness of courts to grant these judgments, a change in the requirements for filing these cases or obtaining these judgments, or a decrease in our ability to collect on these judgments could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. As we increase our use of the legal channel for collections, our short-term margins may decrease as a result of an increase in upfront court costs and costs related to counter claims. We may not be able to collect on certain aged accounts because of applicable statutes of limitations and we may be subject to adverse effects of regulatory changes. Further, courts in certain jurisdictions require that a copy of the account statements or applications be attached to the pleadings in order to obtain a judgment against consumers. If we are unable to produce those account documents, these courts could deny our claims, and our business, financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected.. Increases in costs associated with our collections through collection litigation can raise our costs associated with our collection strategies and the individual lawsuits brought against consumers to collect on judgments in our favor.. We hire in-house counsel and contract with a nationwide network of attorneys that specialize in collection matters. In connection with collection litigation, we advance certain out-of-pocket court costs that are recoverable from the consumer, which we refer to as deferred court costs. These court costs may be difficult or impossible to collect, and we may not be successful in collecting amounts sufficient to cover the amounts deferred in our financial statements. If we are not able to recover these court costs, our business, financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected.. Further, we have substantial collection activity through our legal channel and, as a consequence, increases in deferred court costs, increases in costs related to counterclaims, and an increase in other court costs may increase our costs in collecting on these accounts, which may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. Sellers may deliver portfolios that contain accounts that do not meet our account collection criteria and cannot be returned, which could have an adverse effect on our cash flows and our operations.. In the normal course of portfolio acquisitions, some accounts may be included in the portfolios that fail to conform to the terms of the purchase agreements and we may seek to return these accounts to the sellers for refund. However, we generally have a limited time in which to return these accounts to the sellers under the terms of our purchase agreements. In addition, sellers may not be able to meet their contractual obligations to buy these accounts back from us. Accounts that we are unable to return to sellers may yield no return. If sellers deliver portfolios containing too many accounts that do not conform to the terms of the purchase agreements, we may be unable to collect a sufficient amount and the portfolio purchase could generate lower returns or be unprofitable, which would have an adverse effect on our cash flows and our operations. If cash flows from operations are less than anticipated, our ability to satisfy our debt obligations and purchase new portfolios and, correspondingly, our business, financial condition and operating results, may be adversely affected.. We are subject to audits conducted by sellers of debt portfolios, and may be required to implement specific changes to our policies and practices as a result of adverse findings by such sellers as a part of the audit process, which could limit our ability to purchase debt portfolios from them in the future, which could materially and adversely affect our business.. Pursuant to purchase contracts, we are subject to audits that are conducted by sellers of debt portfolios. Such audits may occur with little notice and the assessment criteria used by each seller varies based on their own requirements, policies and standards.  Although much of the assessment criteria is based on regulatory requirements, we may be asked to comply with additional terms and conditions that are unique to particular debt originators.  From time to time, sellers may believe that we are not in compliance with certain of their criteria and in such cases, we may be required to dedicate resources and to incur expenses to address such concerns, including the implementation of new policies and procedures. In addition, to the extent that we are unable to satisfy the requirements of a particular seller, such seller could remove us from their panel of preferred purchasers, which could limit our ability to purchase debt portfolios from that seller in the future, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. 15. Table of Contents. We are dependent upon third parties to service a substantial portion of our consumer receivable portfolios.. We use outside collection services to collect a substantial portion of our charged-off receivables. We are dependent upon the efforts of third-party collection agencies and attorneys to help service and collect our charged-off receivables. Our third-party collection agencies and attorneys could fail to perform collection services for us adequately, remit those collections to us or otherwise perform their obligations adequately. In addition, one or more of those third-party collection agencies or attorneys could cease operations abruptly or become insolvent, or our relationships with such collection agencies or attorneys may otherwise change adversely. Further, we might not be able to secure replacement third-party collection agencies or attorneys or promptly transfer account information to our new third-party collection agencies, attorneys or in-house in the event our agreements with our third-party collection agencies and attorneys were terminated. Any of the foregoing factors could cause our business, financial condition and operating results to be adversely affected.. We may incur allowance charges based on the authoritative accounting guidance for loans and debt securities acquired with deteriorated credit quality.. We account for our portfolio revenue in accordance with the authoritative accounting guidance for loans and debt securities acquired with deteriorated credit quality. The authoritative guidance limits the revenue that may be accrued to the excess of the estimate of expected future cash flows over a portfolio's initial cost and requires that the excess of the contractual cash flows over the expected cash flows not be recognized as an adjustment of revenue, expense, or on the balance sheet. The authoritative accounting guidance maintains the IRR originally estimated when the receivable portfolios are purchased and, rather than lower the estimated IRR if the expected future cash flow estimates are decreased, the carrying value of our receivable portfolios would be written down to maintain the then-current IRR. Increases in expected future cash flows would be recognized prospectively through an upward adjustment of the IRR over a portfolio's remaining life. Any increased yield then becomes the new benchmark for allowance testing. Since the authoritative accounting guidance does not permit yields to be lowered, there is an increased probability of us having to incur allowance charges in the future, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. Changes in accounting standards and their interpretations could adversely affect our operating results.. U.S. GAAP are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the SEC, and various other bodies that promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. These principles and related implementation guidelines and interpretations can be highly complex and involve subjective estimates. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results, and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change. For example, in June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments (\"ASU 2016-13\"). ASU 2016-13 applies a current expected credit loss model which is a new impairment model based on expected losses rather than incurred losses. ASU 2016-13 eliminates the current accounting model for loans and debt securities acquired with deteriorated credit quality under Accounting Standards Codification (\"ASC\") 310-30, which provides authoritative guidance for the accounting of the Company's investment in receivable portfolios. Under this new standard, entities will gross up the initial amortized cost for the purchased financial assets with credit deterioration (\"PCD assets\"), the initial amortized cost will be the sum of (1) the purchase price and (2) the estimate of credit losses as of the date of acquisition. After initial recognition of PCD assets and the related allowance, any change in estimated cash flows (favorable or unfavorable) will be immediately recognized in the income statement because the yield on PCD assets would be locked. ASU 2016-13 is effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2019 with early adoption permitted for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018. We are in the process of determining the effects the adoption will have on our consolidated financial statements as well as whether to adopt the new guidance early.  ASU 2016-13 and additional new accounting standards could have an adverse effect on our reported financial results, which could in turn cause our stock price to decline.. If our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings.. As of December 31, 2017, we carry approximately $929.0 million in goodwill and approximately $75.7 million in amortizable intangible assets. Under authoritative guidance, we review our goodwill for potential impairment at least annually, and review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors that may indicate that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable include adverse changes in estimated future cash flows, growth rates and discount rates. We may be required to record a significant charge in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. 16. Table of Contents. Our business is subject to extensive laws and regulations, which have increased and may continue to increase.. As noted in detail in \"Item 1 - Part 1 - Business - Government Regulation\" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, extensive laws and regulations directly apply to key portions of our business. Our failure or the failure of third-party agencies and attorneys, or the credit originators or portfolio resellers selling receivables to us, to comply with existing or new laws, rules, or regulations could limit our ability to recover on receivables, affect the willingness of financial institutions to sell portfolios to us, cause us to pay damages to consumers or result in fines or penalties, which could reduce our revenues, or increase our expenses, and consequently adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. We sometimes purchase accounts in asset classes that are subject to industry-specific and/or issuer-specific restrictions that limit the collection methods that we can use on those accounts. Further, we have seen a trend in laws, rules and regulations requiring increased availability of historic information about receivables in order to collect. If credit originators or portfolio resellers are unable or unwilling to meet these evolving requirements, we may be unable to collect on certain accounts. Our inability to collect sufficient amounts from these accounts, through available collections methods, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. In addition, the CFPB has engaged in enforcement activity in sectors adjacent to our industry, impacting credit originators, collection firms, and payment processors, among others. Enforcement activity in these spaces by the CFPB or others, especially in the absence of clear rules or regulatory expectations, may be disruptive to third parties as they attempt to define appropriate business practices. As a result, certain commercial relationships we maintain may be disrupted or impacted by changes in third-parties' business practices or perceptions of elevated risk relating to the debt collection industry, which could reduce our revenues, or increase our expenses, and consequently adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. Additional consumer protection or privacy laws, rules and regulations may be enacted, or existing laws, rules or regulations may be reinterpreted or enforced in a different manner, imposing additional restrictions or requirements on the collection of receivables.. Failure to comply with government regulation could result in the suspension or termination of our ability to conduct business, may require the payment of significant fines and penalties, or require other significant expenditures.. The collections industry is heavily regulated under various federal, state, and local laws, rules, and regulations. Many states and several cities require that we be licensed as a debt collection company. The CFPB, FTC, state Attorneys General and other regulatory bodies have the authority to investigate a variety of matters, including consumer complaints against debt collection companies, and can bring enforcement actions and seek monetary penalties, consumer restitution, and injunctive relief. If we, or our third-party collection agencies or law firms fail to comply with applicable laws, rules, and regulations, including, but not limited to, identity theft, privacy, data security, the use of automated dialing equipment, laws related to consumer protection, debt collection, and laws applicable to specific types of debt, it could result in the suspension or termination of our ability to conduct collection operations, which would adversely affect us. Further, our ability to collect our receivables may be affected by state laws, which require that certain types of account documentation be presented prior to the institution of any collection activities. In addition, new federal, state or local laws or regulations, or changes in the ways these rules or laws are interpreted or enforced, could limit our activities in the future and/or significantly increase the cost of regulatory compliance. Finally, our operations outside the United States are subject to foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and reputational damage. Any of the foregoing could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. Failure to comply with the regulatory regime to which Cabot is subject may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. The debt purchase and collections sector and the broader consumer credit industry in the United Kingdom and the other jurisdictions in which Cabot operates is highly regulated under various laws and regulations.  These laws and regulations are also subject to review from time to time and may be subject to significant change.  In addition, this legislation is principles-based and therefore the interpretation of compliance is complex and may change over time.  Failure to comply with such legislation or regulation may adversely affect the enforceability of the credit agreements underlying Cabot's debt portfolios.. UK debt purchase and collections businesses are principally regulated by the FCA, the ICO and the OFCOM.  In March 2016, CCMG was granted FCA authorization to conduct debt purchase and debt collection activities, as well as exercising the right of a lender.  In addition to the full authorization of its business with the FCA, CCMG has appointed certain individuals who have significant control or influence over the management of the business, known as \"Approved Persons,\" and who will jointly and severally be liable for the acts and omissions of the company and its business affairs. Approved Persons. 17. Table of Contents. will be subject to statements of principle and codes of practice established and enforced by the FCA. The FCA regards debt collection as a \"high risk\" activity and therefore dedicates special resources to more intensive monitoring of businesses in this sector.  The FCA Handbook has a specialist consumer credit sourcebook (\"CONC\") for the consumer credit sector, which includes rules and guidance in relation to, inter alia, the handling of vulnerable customers; communications with customers; arrears, default and recovery of debt; debt advice and statute barred debt.  While UK debt purchase and collection businesses are principally regulated by the FCA and the provisions of the FSMA, there is additional legislation and regulation that governs consumer credit, including the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (as amended) (\"CCA\") which imposes various obligations on lenders, and any person who exercises the rights and duties of lenders, including to provide post - contract information such as statements of account, notices of sums in arrears and default notices.  Any failure to comply with such legislation or regulation could result in FCA action.  The FCA and the previous regulator, the UK Office of Fair Trading (the \"OFT\"), have already taken action against, and have imposed requirements on, a number of well - known financial institutions, other financial institutions and debt management companies.  In addition, Cabot is subject to various regulations concerning consumer protection and data protection, among others, as well as regulations in the other jurisdictions in which it operates.. Compliance with this extensive regulatory framework is expensive and labor-intensive.  Failure to comply with any applicable laws, regulations, rules or contractual compliance obligations could result in investigations, information gathering, public censures, financial penalties, disciplinary measures, liability and/or enforcement actions being brought against Cabot, including licenses or permissions that Cabot needs to do business not being granted or being revoked or the suspension or termination of its ability to conduct collections.  In addition, Cabot's debt purchase contracts with vendors include certain conditions.  Failure to comply or revocation of a permission or authorization, or other actions taken by Cabot that may damage the reputation of the vendor, may entitle the vendor to terminate any agreements with Cabot and/or to repurchase debt portfolios Cabot previously purchased from it.  Damage to Cabot's reputation, whether because of a failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations or rules, revocation of a permission or authorization, any other regulatory action or Cabot's failure to comply with contractual compliance obligations, could deter vendors from choosing Cabot as their debt purchase or collections provider.  Failure to comply with any of the requirements issued by the FCA or the requirements of any applicable legislation or regulation is likely to have serious consequences.  For example, the FCA may undertake investigations and information-gathering in connection with any aspect of Cabot's operations.  The FCA may also commence disciplinary action against authorized entities within Cabot or an Approved Person, which may include public censure or instituting a ban on conducting business within the consumer credit sector.  The FCA may revoke or impose restrictions or temporary suspensions on CCMG's authorization, which would be publicly known and involve serious reputational damage, as well as significantly impact our business.  The FCA may impose requirements demanding changes in Cabot's business practices, which may interfere with Cabot's ability to carry on regulated activities and adversely affect its reputation and ability to acquire additional purchased loan portfolios.. Cabot's subsidiary entities in Ireland are subject to the Consumer Protection (Regulation of Credit Servicing Firms) Act, as amended (the \"Irish Credit Servicing Act 2015\").  Cabot Financial (Ireland) Limited received confirmation of its authorization from the CBI in May 2017 and is contractually obligated to ensure compliance with the relevant consumer protection codes through its debt sale and collection agreements.  Failure to comply with any of the requirements issued by the CBI or the requirements of any applicable legislation or regulation is likely to have serious consequences, including investigations being carried out and /or disciplinary actions (including public censure, restrictions on operations or the suspension of regulatory authorizations) being imposed on Cabot.. As a debt purchaser, Cabot must comply with the requirements established by the Data Protection Act 1998 (as amended) (the \"Data Protection Act\") in relation to processing the personal data of customers. Failure to maintain the appropriate data protection registrations with the ICO or to comply with an ICO enforcement notice could result in criminal proceedings and could negatively impact our ability to otherwise comply with the requirements of the Data Protection Act.  Cabot's ability to price debt portfolios, trace consumers and develop tailored repayment plans depends on its ability to use personal data in its consumer data intelligence systems.  Depending on their nature and scope, changes to data protection laws, practices, regulations and guidance could require additional investments and resources in Cabot's compliance governance framework, or could alter the way in which Cabot obtains, collects and uses data. The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) (Regulation (EU) 2016/679) (the \"EU Data Protection Regulation\") came into effect in May 2016 and will become directly applicable in Member States from May 2018.  The EU Data Protection Regulation introduces substantial changes to the EU data protection regime and will impose a substantially higher compliance burden on Cabot, may increase its data protection costs and may restrict its ability to use data.  Examples of this higher burden include expanding the requirement for informed opt - in consent by customers to processing of personal data and granting customers a \"right to be forgotten,\" restrictions on the use of personal data for profiling purposes, disclosure requirements of data sources to customers, the possibility of having to deal with a higher number of subject access requests, among other requirements.. Any of the developments described above, including the FCA's imposition of additional requirements on Cabot's operations or failure by Cabot to maintain FCA authorization for its collection activities, the addition, reinterpretation or. 18. Table of Contents. enforcement of any laws, rules, regulations, or protocols, or increased enforcement of existing consumer protection or privacy laws, rules and regulations, may adversely affect our ability to collect on receivables and may increase our costs associated with regulatory compliance, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. Economic conditions and regulatory changes leading up to and following the United Kingdom's expected exit from the European Union could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In June 2016, the United Kingdom held a referendum in which voters approved the United Kingdom's exit from the E.U., commonly referred to as \"Brexit.\" In March 2017, the United Kingdom formally served notice on the European Council of its intention to withdraw from the E.U. The United Kingdom is expected to exit the E.U. by no later than April 2019. Brexit has created significant uncertainty about the future relationship between the United Kingdom and the E.U., including with respect to the laws and regulations that will apply as the United Kingdom determines which E.U. laws to replace or replicate in the event of a withdrawal. Additionally, Brexit could, among other outcomes, disrupt the free movement of goods, services and people between the U.K. and the E.U., undermine bilateral cooperation in key policy areas and significantly disrupt trade between the U.K. and the E.U. Consequences such as deterioration in economic conditions, volatility in currency exchange rates or changes in regulation may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. Our business, financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected if consumer bankruptcy filings increase or if bankruptcy laws change.. Our business model may be uniquely vulnerable to an economic recession, which typically results in an increase in the amount of defaulted consumer receivables, thereby contributing to an increase in the amount of personal bankruptcy filings. Under certain bankruptcy filings, a consumer's assets are sold to repay credit originators, with priority given to holders of secured debt. Since the defaulted consumer receivables we purchase are generally unsecured, we often are not able to collect on those receivables. In addition, since we purchase receivables that may have been delinquent for a long period of time, this may be an indication that many of the consumers from whom we collect will be unable to pay their debts going forward and are more likely to file for bankruptcy in an economic recession. Furthermore, potential changes to existing bankruptcy laws could contribute to an increase in consumer bankruptcy filings. We cannot be certain that our collection experience would not decline with an increase in consumer bankruptcy filings. If our actual collection experience with respect to a defaulted consumer receivable portfolio is significantly lower than we projected when we purchased the portfolio, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected.. We are subject to ongoing risks of regulatory investigations and litigation, including individual and class action lawsuits, under consumer credit, consumer protection, theft, privacy, collections, and other laws, and we may be subject to awards of substantial damages or be required to make other expenditures or change our business practices as a result.. We operate in an extremely litigious climate and currently are, and may in the future be, named as defendants in litigation, including individual and class action lawsuits under consumer credit, consumer protection, theft, privacy, data security, automated dialing equipment, debt collections, and other laws. Many of these cases present novel issues on which there is no clear legal precedent, which increases the difficulty in predicting both the potential outcomes and costs of defending these cases. We are subject to ongoing risks of regulatory investigations, inquiries, litigation, and other actions by the CFPB, FTC, state Attorneys General, or other governmental bodies relating to our activities. These litigation and regulatory actions involve potential compensatory or punitive damage claims, fines, costs, sanctions, civil monetary penalties, consumer restitution, or injunctive relief, as well as other forms of relief, that could require us to pay damages, make other expenditures or result in changes to our business practices. Any changes to our business practices could result in lower collections, increased cost to collect or reductions in estimated remaining collections. Actual losses incurred by us in connection with judgments or settlements of these matters may be more than our associated reserves. Further, defending lawsuits and responding to governmental inquiries or investigations, regardless of their merit, could be costly and divert management's attention from the operation of our business. All of these factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. Negative publicity associated with litigation, governmental investigations, regulatory actions, and other public statements could damage our reputation.. From time to time there are negative news stories about our industry or company, especially with respect to alleged conduct in collecting debt from consumers. These stories may follow the announcements of litigation or regulatory actions involving us or others in our industry. Negative publicity about our alleged or actual debt collection practices or about the debt collection industry in general could adversely affect our stock price, our position in the marketplace in which we compete, and our ability to purchase charged-off receivables, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. 19. Table of Contents. We may make acquisitions that prove unsuccessful and any mergers, acquisitions, dispositions or joint venture activities may change our business and financial results and introduce new risks.. From time to time, we may make acquisitions of, or otherwise invest in, other companies that could complement our business, including the acquisition of entities in diverse geographic regions and entities offering greater access to businesses and markets that we do not currently serve. The acquisitions we make may be unprofitable or may take some time to achieve profitability. In addition, we may not successfully operate the businesses that we acquire, or may not successfully integrate these businesses with our own, which may result in our inability to maintain our goals, objectives, standards, controls, policies, culture, or profitability. Also, minority shareholders in certain entities that we have acquired have the right, at certain times, to require us to acquire their ownership interest in those entities at fair value, while others have the right to force a sale of the entity if we choose not to purchase their interests at fair value, which could result in additional constraints on our resources. Through acquisitions, we may enter markets in which we have limited or no experience. Any acquisition may result in a potentially dilutive issuance of equity securities, and the incurrence of additional debt which could reduce our profitability. We also pursue dispositions and joint ventures from time to time. Any such transactions could change our business lines, geographic reach, financial results or capital structure. Our company could be larger or smaller after any such transactions and may have a different investment profile.. We may consume resources in pursuing business opportunities, financings or other transactions that are not consummated, which may strain or divert our resources.. We anticipate that the investigation of various transactions, and the negotiation, drafting, and execution of relevant agreements, disclosure documents and other instruments with respect to such transactions, will require substantial management time and attention and substantial costs for financial advisors, accountants, attorneys and other advisors. If a decision is made not to consummate a specific transaction, the costs incurred up to that point for the proposed transaction likely would not be recoverable. Furthermore, even if an agreement is reached relating to a specific transaction, we may fail to consummate the transaction for any number of reasons, including those beyond our control. Any such event could consume significant management time and result in a loss to us of the related costs incurred, which could adversely affect our financial position and our business.. We are dependent on our management team for the adoption and implementation of our strategies and the loss of its services could have an adverse effect on our business.. Our management team has considerable experience in finance, banking, consumer collections, and other industries. We believe that the expertise of our executives obtained by managing businesses across numerous other industries has been critical to the enhancement of our operations. Our management team has created a culture of new ideas and progressive thinking, coupled with increased use of technology and statistical analysis. The management teams at each of our operating subsidiaries are also important to the success of their respective operations. The loss of the services of one or more key members of management could disrupt our collective operations and seriously impair our ability to continue to acquire or collect on portfolios of charged-off receivables and to manage and expand our business, any of which could have an adverse effect on business, financial condition and operating results.. We may not be able to manage our growth effectively, including the expansion of our foreign operations.. We have expanded significantly in recent years. Continued growth will place additional demands on our resources, and we cannot be sure that we will be able to manage our growth effectively. For example, continued growth could place strains on our management, operations, and financial resources that our infrastructure, facilities, and personnel may not be able to adequately support. In addition, the recent expansion of our foreign operations subjects us to a number of additional risks and uncertainties, including:. • compliance with and changes in international laws, including regulatory and compliance requirements that could affect our business;. • differing accounting standards and practices;. • increased exposure to U.S. laws that apply abroad, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and exposure to other anti-corruption laws such as the U.K. Bribery Act;. • social, political and economic instability or recessions;. • fluctuations in foreign economies and currency exchange rates;. • difficulty in hiring, staffing and managing qualified and proficient local employees and advisors to run international operations;. 20. Table of Contents. • the difficulty of managing and operating an international enterprise, including difficulties in maintaining effective communications with employees due to distance, language, and cultural barriers;. • difficulties implementing and maintaining effective internal controls and risk management and compliance initiatives;. • potential disagreements with our joint venture business partners;. • differing labor regulations and business practices; and. • foreign and, in some circumstances, U.S. tax consequences.. To support our growth and improve our international operations, we continue to make investments in infrastructure, facilities, and personnel in our operations; however, these additional investments may not be successful or our investments may not produce profitable results. If we cannot manage our growth effectively, our business, financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected.. If our technology and telecommunications systems were to fail, or if we are not able to successfully anticipate, invest in, or adopt technological advances within our industry, it could have an adverse effect on our operations.. Our success depends in large part on sophisticated computer and telecommunications systems. The temporary or permanent loss of our computer and telecommunications equipment and software systems, through casualty, operating malfunction, software virus, or service provider failure, could disrupt our operations. In the normal course of our business, we must record and process significant amounts of data quickly and accurately to properly bid on prospective acquisitions of receivable portfolios and to access, maintain, and expand the databases we use for our collection activities. Any simultaneous failure of our information systems and their backup systems would interrupt our business operations.. In addition, our business relies on computer and telecommunications technologies, and our ability to integrate new technologies into our business is essential to our competitive position and our success. We may not be successful in anticipating, investing in, or adopting technological changes on a timely or cost-effective basis. Computer and telecommunications technologies are evolving rapidly and are characterized by short product life cycles.. We continue to make significant modifications to our information systems to ensure that they continue to be adequate for our current and foreseeable demands and continued expansion, and our future growth may require additional investment in these systems. These system modifications may exceed our cost or time estimates for completion or may be unsuccessful. If we cannot update our information systems effectively, our business, financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected.. In the event of a cyber security breach or similar incident, our business and operations could suffer.. We rely on information technology networks and systems to process and store electronic information. We collect and store sensitive data, including personally identifiable information of our consumers, on our information technology networks. Despite the implementation of security measures, our information technology networks and systems may be vulnerable to disruptions and shutdowns due to attacks by hackers or breaches due to malfeasance by contractors, employees and others who have access to our networks and systems. The occurrence of any of these cyber security events could compromise our networks and the information stored on our networks could be accessed. Any such access could disrupt our operations or result in legal claims, liability, reputational damage or regulatory penalties under laws protecting the privacy of personal information, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. We rely on third parties to provide us with services in connection with certain aspects of our business, and any failure by these third parties to perform their obligations, or our inability to arrange for alternative third party providers for such services, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. We have entered into agreements with third parties to provide us with services in connection with our business, including payment processing, credit card authorization and processing, payroll processing, record keeping for retirement and benefit plans and certain information technology functions. Any failure by a third party to provide us with contracted services on a timely basis or within service level expectations and performance standards may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, we may be unable to find, or enter into agreements with, suitable replacement third party providers for such services, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. 21. Table of Contents. We may not be able to adequately protect the intellectual property rights upon which we rely and, as a result, any lack of protection may diminish our competitive advantage.. We rely on proprietary software programs and valuation and collection processes and techniques, and we believe that these assets provide us with a competitive advantage. We consider our proprietary software, processes, and techniques to be trade secrets, but they are not protected by patent or registered copyright. We may not be able to protect our technology and data resources adequately, which may diminish our competitive advantage, which may, in turn, adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. Exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. Because we conduct some business in currencies other than U.S. dollars but report our financial results in U.S. dollars, we face exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates upon translation of these business results into U.S. dollars. In the normal course of business, we employ various strategies to manage these risks, including the use of derivative instruments. These strategies may not be effective in protecting us against the effects of fluctuations from movements in foreign exchange rates. Fluctuations in the foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. Taxes could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. We are subject to taxes in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for taxes. We regularly are under audit by tax authorities, and economic and political pressures to increase tax revenues in various jurisdictions may make resolving tax disputes more difficult. The final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. In addition, potential adverse tax consequences could limit our ability to repatriate funds held in jurisdictions outside of the United States. Moreover, there may be unfavorable changes in the tax laws (or in the interpretation thereof) in the future. Accordingly, taxes could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. Recent U.S. tax legislation may materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. On December 22, 2017, legislation commonly known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Reform Act\") was signed into law by President Trump. The Tax Reform Act has significantly changed the U.S. federal income taxation of U.S. corporations, including, but not limited to, reducing the U.S. corporate income tax rate, eliminating the corporate alternative minimum tax, limiting interest deductions, permitting immediate expensing of certain capital expenditures, adopting elements of a territorial tax system, imposing a one-time transition tax (or \"repatriation tax\") on all undistributed earnings and profits of certain U.S.-owned foreign corporations, revising the rules governing net operating losses and the rules governing foreign tax credits, and introducing new anti-base erosion provisions. Many of these changes are effective beginning with our 2018 taxable year, without any transition periods or grandfathering for existing transactions. The Tax Reform Act is unclear in many respects and could be subject to potential amendments and technical corrections, as well as interpretations and implementing regulations by the U.S. Treasury Department and Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\"), any of which could lessen or increase certain adverse impacts of the legislation. In addition, it is unclear how these U.S. federal income tax changes will affect state and local taxation, which often uses federal taxable income as a starting point for computing state and local tax liabilities.. While some of the changes made by the Tax Reform Act may adversely affect the Company in one or more reporting periods and prospectively, other changes may be beneficial on a going forward basis. We continue to work with our tax advisors and auditors to determine the full impact that the Tax Reform Act will have on us. We urge our investors to consult with their legal and tax advisors with respect to such legislation.. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness and Common Stock. Our significant indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and could harm our ability to react to changes to our business.. As described in greater detail in Note 9, \"Debt\" to our consolidated financial statements, as of December 31, 2017, our total long-term indebtedness outstanding was approximately $3.4 billion, which includes $2.0 billion of debt at our Cabot subsidiary. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to investors. For example, it could:. • increase our vulnerability to general economic downturns and industry conditions;. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements;. • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;. 22. Table of Contents. • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt;. • increase our exposure to market and regulatory changes that could diminish the amount and value of our inventory that we borrow against under our secured credit facilities; and. • limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in the documents governing our indebtedness, our ability to borrow additional funds, make investments and incur liens, among other things.. Any of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. If we do not have sufficient earnings to service our debt, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money, or sell securities, none of which we can guarantee we will be able to do.. Servicing our indebtedness requires a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow from our business to pay our substantial indebtedness.. Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, to pay interest on or to refinance our indebtedness or to make cash payments in connection with any conversion of our convertible notes depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not continue to generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to service our indebtedness and make necessary capital expenditures. If we are unable to generate adequate cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring indebtedness or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at that time. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our debt obligations which could, in turn, adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. Despite our current indebtedness levels, we may still incur substantially more indebtedness or take other actions which would intensify the risks discussed above.. Despite our current consolidated indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, some of which may be secured indebtedness under our Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (as amended, the \"Restated Credit Agreement\"), subject to the restrictions contained in our debt instruments. We are not restricted under the terms of the indentures governing our convertible notes from incurring additional indebtedness, securing existing or future indebtedness, recapitalizing our indebtedness or taking a number of other actions that could have the effect of diminishing our ability to make payments on our indebtedness. Although the Restated Credit Agreement and some of our other existing debt currently limit the ability of us and certain of our subsidiaries to incur additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions and, under certain circumstances, additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions, including additional secured indebtedness, could be substantial. Also, these restrictions will not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness. To the extent new indebtedness or other new obligations are added to our current levels, the risks described above could intensify. Moreover, if the facilities under the Restated Credit Agreement are repaid or mature, we may not be subject to similar restrictions under the terms of any subsequent indebtedness.. We may not be able to continue to satisfy the covenants in our debt agreements.. Our debt agreements impose a number of covenants, including restrictive covenants on how we operate our business. Failure to satisfy any one of these covenants could result in negative consequences including the following, each of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results:. • acceleration of outstanding indebtedness;. • exercise by our lenders of rights with respect to the collateral pledged under certain of our outstanding indebtedness;. • our inability to continue to purchase receivables needed to operate our business; or. • our inability to secure alternative financing on favorable terms, if at all.. 23. Table of Contents. Increases in interest rates could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. Portions of our outstanding debt bear interest at a variable rate. Increases in interest rates could increase our interest expense which would, in turn, lower our earnings. We may periodically evaluate whether to enter into derivative financial instruments, such as interest rate swap agreements, to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates on variable interest rate debt and their impact on earnings and cash flows. These strategies may not be effective in protecting us against the effects of fluctuations from movements in interest rates. Increases in interest rates could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. Our common stock price may be subject to significant fluctuations and volatility.. The market price of our common stock has been subject to significant fluctuations. Since the beginning of fiscal year 2017, our stock price has ranged from a low of $27.80 on January 9, 2017 to a high of $52.00 on November 3, 2017. These fluctuations could continue. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are:. • our operating and financial performance and prospects;. • our ability to repay our debt;. • our access to financial and capital markets to refinance our debt;. • investor perceptions of us and the industry and markets in which we operate;. • future sales of equity or equity-related securities;. • changes in earnings estimates or buy/sell recommendations by analysts;. • changes in the supply of, demand for or price of portfolios;. • our acquisition activity, including our expansion into new markets;. • regulatory changes affecting our industry generally or our business and operations;. • general financial, domestic, international, economic and other market conditions; and. • the number of short positions on our stock at any particular time.. The stock market in recent years has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of companies. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly for many reasons, including in response to the risks described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, elsewhere in our filings with the SEC from time to time or for reasons unrelated to our operations, such as reports by industry analysts, investor perceptions or negative announcements by our customers, competitors or suppliers regarding their own performance, as well as industry conditions and general financial, economic and political instability.. The price of our common stock could also be affected by possible sales of our common stock by investors who view our convertible notes as a more attractive means of equity participation in us and by hedging or arbitrage trading activity that we expect to develop involving our common stock.. If securities or industry analysts have a negative outlook regarding our stock or our industry, or our operating results do not meet their expectations, our stock price could decline. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us. If one or more of the analysts who cover our company downgrade our stock or if our operating results do not meet their expectations, our stock price could decline.. Future sales of our common stock or the issuance of other equity securities may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. In the future, we may sell additional shares of our common stock or other equity or equity-related securities to raise capital or issue equity securities to finance acquisitions. In addition, a substantial number of shares of our common stock are reserved for issuance upon the exercise of stock options or vesting of restricted stock awards, upon conversion of our convertible notes and the warrant transactions entered into in connection with certain of our convertible notes. We are not restricted from issuing additional common stock, including securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock.. The liquidity and trading volume of our common stock is limited. The issuance or sale of substantial amounts of our common stock or other equity or equity-related securities (or the perception that such issuances or sales may occur) could. 24. Table of Contents. adversely affect the market price of our common stock as well as our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity or equity-related securities. We cannot predict the effect that future issuances or sales of our common stock or other equity or equity-related securities would have on the market price of our common stock.. We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to repurchase our convertible notes upon a fundamental change or to settle conversions in cash, and our future indebtedness may contain limitations on our ability to pay cash upon conversion of our convertible notes.. Holders of our convertible notes will have the right to require us to repurchase their convertible notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change at a repurchase price equal to 100% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. In addition, upon a conversion of convertible notes, unless we elect to deliver solely shares of our common stock to settle the conversion (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional shares of our common stock), we will be required to make cash payments for each $1,000 in principal amount of convertible notes converted of at least the lesser of $1,000 and the sum of certain daily conversion values. However, we may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing at the time we are required to make repurchases of convertible notes surrendered therefor or to settle conversions in cash. In addition, our Restated Credit Agreement contains certain restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions, which may affect our ability to repurchase our convertible notes. Further, our ability to repurchase our convertible notes or to pay cash upon conversion may be limited by law, by regulatory authority or by agreements governing our future indebtedness. Our failure to repurchase convertible notes or to pay cash upon conversion of the convertible notes at a time when the repurchase or cash payment upon conversion is required by any indenture pursuant to which the convertible notes were offered would constitute a default under the relevant indenture. Such default could constitute a default under another indenture, our Restated Credit Agreement or other agreements governing our future indebtedness. If the repayment of any indebtedness were to be accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds to repay such indebtedness and repurchase the convertible notes.. The conditional conversion feature of our convertible notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. In the event the conditional conversion feature of any of our convertible notes is triggered, holders of those convertible notes will be entitled to convert the convertible notes at any time during specified periods at their option. Even if holders do not elect to convert their convertible notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the relevant series of convertible notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which would result in a material reduction of our net working capital.. The accounting method for convertible debt securities that may be settled in cash, such as our convertible notes, could have a material effect on our reported financial results.. Under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, an entity must separately account for the debt component and the embedded conversion option of convertible debt instruments that may be settled entirely or partially in cash upon conversion, such as our convertible notes, in a manner that reflects the issuer's economic interest cost. The effect of the accounting treatment for such instruments is that the value of such embedded conversion option would be treated as original issue discount for purposes of accounting for the debt component of the convertible notes, and that original issue discount is amortized into interest expense over the term of the convertible notes using an effective yield method. As a result, we will be required to record a greater amount of non-cash interest expense as a consequence of the amortization of the original issue discount to face amount of the convertible notes over the respective terms of the convertible notes and as a consequence of the amortization of the debt issuance costs. Accordingly, we will report lower net income in our financial results because of the recognition of both the current period's amortization of the debt discount and the coupon interest of the convertible notes, which could adversely affect our reported or future financial results and the trading price of our common stock.. Under certain circumstances, convertible debt instruments (such as our convertible notes) that may be settled entirely or partially in cash are evaluated for their impact on earnings per share utilizing the treasury stock method, the effect of which is that any shares issuable upon conversion of the convertible notes are not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share except to the extent that the conversion value of the convertible notes exceeds their respective principal amount. Under the treasury stock method, for diluted earnings per share purposes, the convertible debt instrument is accounted for as if the number of shares of common stock that would be necessary to settle such excess, if we elected to settle such excess in shares, are issued. We cannot be certain that the accounting standards in the future will continue to permit the use of the treasury stock method, as is currently the case with our convertible notes. If we are unable to use the treasury stock method in accounting for any shares issuable upon conversion of our convertible notes, then our diluted earnings per share could be further adversely affected. In addition, if the conditional conversion feature of our convertible notes is triggered, even if holders of such notes do not elect to convert their notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the. 25. Table of Contents. outstanding principal of such notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which could result in a reduction of our net working capital.. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may delay or prevent acquisition of us, which could decrease the value of shares of our common stock.. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our Board of Directors. These provisions include advance notice provisions, limitations on actions by our stockholders by written consent and special approval requirements for transactions involving interested stockholders. We are authorized to issue up to five million shares of preferred stock, the relative rights and preferences of which may be fixed by our Board of Directors, subject to the provisions of our articles of incorporation, without stockholder approval. The issuance of preferred stock could be used to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer. The provisions that discourage potential acquisitions of us and adversely affect the voting power of the holders of common stock may adversely affect the price of our common stock and the value of the Convertible Notes.. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future.. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock. In addition, we must comply with the covenants in our credit facilities if we want to pay cash dividends. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to finance the further development and expansion of our business and do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any future determination to pay dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon our financial condition, operating results, capital requirements, restrictions contained in current or future financing instruments and such other factors as our Board of Directors deems relevant. As a result, receiving a return on an investment in Encore's common stock may only occur if the trading price of our common stock increases."
