[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Before deciding to invest in our company, or to maintain or increase your investment, you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other reports we have filed with the SEC. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also affect our business operations. If any of these risks are realized, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be seriously harmed and, in that event, the market price for our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment.. These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These factors could cause actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in our forward-looking statements.. Risks Related to Our Business. All of our revenue is generated from a limited number of products, and any decline in the sales of these products will negatively impact our business.. We have focused heavily on the development and commercialization of a limited number of products for the treatment of AAA. If we are unable to continue to achieve and maintain market acceptance of these products and do not achieve sustained positive cash flow from operations, we will be constrained in our ability to fund development and commercialization of improvements and other product lines. In addition, if we are unable to market our products as a result of a manufacturing or quality problem or failure to maintain regulatory approvals, we would lose our only source of revenue and our business would be negatively affected.. We are in a highly competitive market segment, which is subject to rapid technological change. If our competitors are better able to develop and market products that are safer, more effective, less costly, easier to use, or otherwise more attractive than any products that we may develop, our business will be adversely impacted.. Our industry is highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to maintain a competitive position in the development of technologies and products for use in the treatment of AAA and other aortic disorders. We face competition from both established and development stage companies. Many of the companies developing or marketing competing products enjoy several advantages to us, including:. • greater financial and human resources for product development, sales and marketing and patent litigation;. • greater name recognition;. • long established relationships with physicians, customers, and third-party payors;. 15. • additional lines of products, and the ability to offer rebates or bundle products to offer greater discounts or incentives;. • more established sales and marketing programs, and distribution networks;. • greater experience in conducting research and development, manufacturing, clinical trials, preparing regulatory submissions, and obtaining regulatory clearance or approval for products and marketing approved products; and. • greater buying power and influence with suppliers.. Our competitors may develop and patent processes or products earlier than us, obtain regulatory clearance or approvals for competing products more rapidly than us, and develop more effective or less expensive products or technologies that render our technology or products obsolete or less competitive. We also face fierce competition in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific, sales, and management personnel, establishing clinical trial sites and patient enrollment in clinical trials, as well as in acquiring technologies and technology licenses complementary to our products or advantageous to our business. If our competitors are more successful than us in these matters, our business may be harmed.. If third-party payors do not provide reimbursement for the use of our products, our revenues may be negatively impacted.. Our success in marketing our products depends in large part on whether domestic and international government health administrative authorities, private health insurers and other organizations will reimburse customers for the cost of our products. Reimbursement systems in international markets vary significantly by country and by region within some countries, and reimbursement approvals must be obtained on a country-by-country basis. Further, many international markets have government managed healthcare systems that control reimbursement for new devices and procedures. In most markets, there are private insurance systems as well as government-managed systems. If sufficient reimbursement is not available for our current or future products, in either the United States or internationally, the demand for our products may be adversely affected or we may decide to cease commercial activities in any such region.. We may never realize the expected benefits of our business combination transactions.. In addition to developing new products and growing our business internally, we have sought to grow through combinations with complementary businesses. Examples include our recently completed merger with TriVascular in 2016 and our merger with Nellix in 2010. Such business combination transactions involve risks, including the risk that we may fail to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits of the transaction. For example, the success of our recent business combination transactions largely depends on our ability to realize anticipated growth opportunities for existing products and potential new products. Our ability to realize these benefits, and the timing of this realization, depend upon a number of factors and future events, many of which we cannot control. These factors and events include, without limitation, with respect to the acquired products and technologies, the results of clinical trials, the receipt of applicable regulatory approvals, obtaining and maintaining intellectual property rights and further developing an effective sales and marketing organization in global markets. Although we carefully plan our business combination transactions, we may be unable to realize the expected benefits of such transactions.. Our success depends on the growth in the number of AAA patients treated with endovascular devices.. We estimate that over 200,000 people are diagnosed with AAA in the United States, and approximately 60,000 people undergo aneurysm repair, either via EVAR or open surgical repair, annually. Our growth will depend upon an increasing percentage of patients with AAA being diagnosed, and an increasing percentage of those diagnosed receiving EVAR, as opposed to an open surgical procedure. Initiatives to increase screening for AAA include SAAAVE, which was signed into law on February 8, 2006 in the United States. SAAAVE provides one-time AAA screening for men who have smoked some time in their life, and men or women who have a family history of the disease. Screening is provided as part of the \"Welcome to Medicare\" physical and such coverage began on January 1, 2007. Such general screening programs may never gain wide acceptance. The failure to diagnose more patients with AAA could negatively impact our revenue growth.. Our success depends on convincing physicians to use, and continue to use, our products in more endovascular AAA procedures and to assist us in development of new products.. If we are unable to continue convincing physicians to use our products, our business could be negatively impacted. Additionally, if we fail to maintain our working relationships with health care professionals, many of our products may not be developed and marketed in line with the needs and expectations of the professionals who use and support our products, which could cause a decline in our financial performance. The research, development, marketing, and sales of many of our new and improved products is dependent upon our maintaining working relationships with health care professionals. We rely on these professionals to provide us with considerable knowledge and experience regarding the development, marketing, and sale of our. 16. products. Physicians assist us as researchers, marketing and product consultants, inventors, and public speakers. If we are unable to maintain our strong relationships with these professionals and continue to receive their advice and input, the development and marketing of our products could suffer, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated earnings, financial condition, and/or cash flows.. Manufacturing and quality problems with our products could harm our reputation and erode our competitive advantage, sales, and market share.. The manufacture of many of our products is highly complex and subject to strict quality controls, due in part to rigorous regulatory requirements. In addition, quality is extremely important due to the serious and costly consequences of a product failure. Problems can arise during the manufacturing process for a number of reasons, including equipment malfunction, failure to follow protocols and procedures, raw material problems or human error. If these problems arise or if we otherwise fail to meet our internal quality standards or those of the FDA or other applicable regulatory bodies, which include detailed record-keeping requirements, our reputation could be damaged, we could become subject to a safety alert or a recall, we could incur product liability and other costs, product approvals could be delayed, suspended or revoked and our business could otherwise be adversely affected.. Our international operations involve operating risks, which could adversely impact our net sales, results of operations, and financial condition.. Sales of our products outside the United States represented approximately 32% of our revenue in 2017. As of December 31, 2017, we sold our products through 41 distributors located in the following countries outside of the United States: Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Columbia, Czech Republic, Israel, Japan, Mexico, Canada, Austria, Latvia, Romania, Poland, Sweden, Switzerland, Portugal, Spain, Slovakia, Italy, Hungary, Greece, Thailand, Singapore, Hong Kong, Russia, Cyprus, Ecuador, Australia, Turkey and South Korea. The sales territories authorized within these various distribution agreements cover a total of 54 countries. The sale and shipment of our products across international borders, as well as the purchase of components and products from international sources, subjects us to extensive United States and foreign governmental trade, import and export, and custom regulations and laws.. Pursuant to the SEC rules regarding disclosure of the use of certain minerals in our products, known as \"conflict minerals,\" which are mined from the Democratic Republic of the Congo and adjoining countries, we are now required to disclose the procedures we employ to determine the sourcing of such minerals and metals produced from those minerals. The implementation of these rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply, and pricing of materials used in our products. Although we intend to disclose that we utilized certain of the four conflict minerals in our products in our conflict minerals report for the 2017 calendar year, we have been unable in all instances to determine that our sources of these minerals have been certified as \"conflict free.\" We may continue to face difficulties in gathering this information in the future.. Compliance with these regulations is costly and exposes us to penalties for non-compliance. Other laws and regulations that can significantly impact us include various anti-bribery laws, including the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and anti-boycott laws and similar laws in foreign jurisdictions. Any failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory obligations could impact us in a variety of ways that include, but are not limited to, significant criminal, civil and administrative penalties, including imprisonment of individuals, fines and penalties, denial of export privileges, seizure of shipments, restrictions on certain business activities, and exclusion or debarment from government contracting. Also, the failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory obligations could result in the disruption of our shipping and sales activities.. Substantially all of our sales outside of the United States are denominated in local currencies and not in United States dollars. Measured in local currency, a substantial portion of our international sales was generated in Europe (and primarily denominated in the Euro) and in Japan. The United States dollar value of our international sales varies with currency exchange rate fluctuations. Decreases in the value of the United States dollar to the Euro or the British Pound Sterling have the effect of increasing our reported revenues even when the volume of international sales has remained constant. Increases in the value of the United States dollar relative to the Euro or the British Pound Sterling, as well as other currencies, have the opposite effect and, if significant, could have a material adverse effect on our reported revenues and results of operations.. In addition, many of the countries in which we sell our products are, to some degree, subject to political, economic or social instability. Our international operations expose us and our distributors to risks inherent in operating in foreign jurisdictions. These risks include:. • difficulties in enforcing or defending intellectual property rights;. • pricing pressure that we may experience internationally;. 17. • a shortage of high-quality sales people and distributors;. • changes in third-party reimbursement policies that may require some of the patients who receive our products to directly absorb medical costs or that may necessitate the reduction of the selling prices of our products;. • the imposition of additional United States and foreign governmental controls or regulations;. • economic instability;. • changes in duties and tariffs, license obligations and other non-tariff barriers to trade;. • the imposition of restrictions on the activities of foreign agents, representatives and distributors;. • scrutiny of foreign tax authorities which could result in significant fines, penalties and additional taxes being imposed on us;. • laws and business practices favoring local companies;. • longer payment cycles;. • difficulties in maintaining consistency with our internal guidelines;. • difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems;. • the imposition of costly and lengthy new export licensing requirements;. • the imposition of United States or international sanctions against a country, company, person or entity with whom we do business that would restrict or prohibit continued business with the sanctioned country, company, person or entity; and. • the imposition of new trade restrictions.. If we experience any of these risks, our sales in international countries may be harmed and our results of operations would suffer.. If we fail to develop and retain our direct sales force, our business could suffer.. We have a direct sales force in the United States and in certain European countries. We also utilize a network of third-party distributors for sales outside of the United States. As we launch new products and increase our marketing efforts with respect to existing products, we will need to retain and develop our direct sales personnel to build upon their experience, tenure with our products, and their relationships with customers. There is significant competition for sales personnel experienced in relevant medical device sales. If we are unable to attract, motivate, develop, and retain qualified sales personnel and thereby grow our sales force, we may not be able to maintain or increase our revenues.. Our third-party distributors may not effectively distribute our products.. We depend in part on medical device distributors and strategic relationships for the marketing and selling of our products outside of the United States and outside of certain countries in Europe. We depend on these distributors' efforts to market our products, yet we are unable to control their efforts completely. In addition, we are unable to ensure that our distributors comply with all applicable laws regarding the sale of our products. If our distributors fail to effectively market and sell our products, and in full compliance with applicable laws, our operating results and business may suffer.. If clinical trials of our current or future products do not produce results necessary to support regulatory clearance or approval in the United States or elsewhere, we will be unable to commercialize these products.. We are currently conducting clinical trials. We will likely need to conduct additional clinical trials in the future to support new product approvals, for the approval for new indications for the use of our products, or support the use of existing products. Clinical testing is expensive, and typically takes many years, and carries uncertain outcomes. The initiation and completion of any of these studies may be prevented, delayed, or halted for numerous reasons, including, but not limited to, the following:. • the FDA, institutional review boards or other regulatory authorities do not approve a clinical study protocol, force us to modify a previously approved protocol, or place a clinical study on hold;. • patients do not enroll in, or enroll at the expected rate, or complete a clinical study;. • patients or investigators do not comply with study protocols;. • patients do not return for post-treatment follow-up at the expected rate;. • patients experience serious or unexpected adverse side effects for a variety of reasons that may or may not be related to our products such as the advanced stage of co-morbidities that may exist at the time of treatment, causing a clinical study to be put on hold or terminated.. • sites participating in an ongoing clinical study may withdraw, requiring us to engage new sites;. 18. • difficulties or delays associated with establishing additional clinical sites;. • third-party clinical investigators decline to participate in our clinical studies, do not perform the clinical studies on the anticipated schedule, or are inconsistent with the investigator agreement, clinical study protocol, good clinical practices, and other FDA and Institutional Review Board requirements;. • Failure to complete data collection analysis in a timely or accurate manner;. • regulatory inspections of our clinical studies require us to undertake corrective action or suspend or terminate our clinical studies;. • changes in federal, state, or foreign governmental statutes, regulations or policies;. • interim results are inconclusive or unfavorable as to immediate and long-term safety or efficacy;. • the study design is inadequate to demonstrate safety and efficacy; or. • the results of the study do not meet the study endpoints.. Clinical failure can occur at any stage of the testing. Our clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical and/or non-clinical testing in addition to those we have planned. Our failure to adequately demonstrate the efficacy and safety of any of our devices would prevent receipt of regulatory clearance or approval and, ultimately, the commercialization of that device or indication for use.. We rely on single vendors to supply several components for our product lines, and any disruption in the supply of such materials could impair our ability to manufacture our products or meet customer demand for our products in a timely and cost effective manner.. Our reliance on single source suppliers exposes our operations to disruptions in supply caused by:. • failure of our suppliers to comply with regulatory requirements;. • any strike or work stoppage;. • disruptions in shipping;. • a natural disaster caused by fire, flood or earthquakes; or. • a supply shortage experienced by a single source supplier.. Although we take reasonable efforts to mitigate risk, a significant extending interruption from key suppliers could impact our ability to manufacture and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, our business may be negatively affected.. Our success depends significantly on our ability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technologies. Our policy is to obtain and protect our intellectual property rights. We rely on patent protection, as well as a combination of copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, and nondisclosure, confidentiality and other contractual restrictions, to protect our proprietary technology. However, these legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. Our pending United States and foreign patent applications may not issue as patents or may not issue in a form that will be advantageous to us. Any patents we have obtained, or will obtain, may be challenged by re-examination, inter partes review, opposition or other administrative proceeding, or in litigation. Such challenges could result in a determination that the patent is invalid. In addition, competitors may be able to design alternative methods or devices that avoid infringement of our patents. To the extent our intellectual property protection offers inadequate protection, or is found to be invalid, we are exposed to a greater risk of direct competition. If our intellectual property does not provide adequate protection against our competitors' products, our competitive position could be adversely affected, as could our business. Both the patent application process and the process of managing patent disputes can be time consuming and expensive. Furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent, as do the laws of the United States. In addition, changes in United States patent laws could prevent or limit us from filing patent applications or patent claims to protect our products and/or technologies or limit the exclusivity periods that are available to patent holders.. We also own trade secrets and confidential information that we try to protect by entering into confidentiality agreements and intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees, consultants and other parties. However, such agreements may not be honored or, if breached, we may not have sufficient remedies to protect our confidential information. Further, our competitors may independently learn our trade secrets or develop similar or superior technologies. To the extent that our employees, consultants or others apply technological information to our projects that they develop independently or others. 19. develop, disputes may arise regarding the ownership of proprietary rights to such information, and such disputes may not be resolved in our favor. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property adequately, our business and commercial prospects will likely suffer.. The medical device industry is subject to extensive patent litigation, and if our products or processes infringe upon the intellectual property of third parties, the sale of our products may be challenged and we may have to defend costly and time-consuming infringement claims.. We may need to engage in expensive and prolonged litigation to assert or defend any of our intellectual property rights or to determine the scope and validity of rights claimed by other parties. With no certainty as to the outcome, litigation could be too expensive for us to pursue. Our failure to prevail in such litigation or our failure to pursue litigation could result in the loss of our rights that could substantially hurt our business. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, if at all.. Our failure to obtain rights to intellectual property of third parties, or the potential for intellectual property litigation, could force us to do one or more of the following:. • stop selling, making, or using products that use the disputed intellectual property;. • obtain a license from the intellectual property owner to continue selling, making, licensing, or using products, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all;. • redesign our products, processes or services; or. • subject us to significant liabilities to third parties.. If any of the foregoing occurs, we may be unable to manufacture and sell our products and may suffer severe financial harm. Whether or not an intellectual property claim is valid, the cost of responding to it, in terms of legal fees and expenses and the diversion of management resources, could harm our business.. We may face product liability claims that could result in costly litigation and significant liabilities.. The manufacture, marketing and sale of our commercial products, and the clinical testing of our products under development, may expose us to significant risk of product liability claims. In the past, we have had a small number of product liability claims relating to our products, none of which either individually, or in the aggregate, have resulted in a material negative impact on our business. In the future, we may be subject to additional product liability claims, some of which may have a negative impact on our business. Such claims could divert our management from pursuing our business strategy and may be costly to defend. Regardless of the merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in:. • decreased demand for our products;. • injury to our reputation;. • injury to our relationships with our customers;. • significant litigation and other costs;. • substantial monetary awards to or costly settlements with patients;. • product recalls;. • loss of revenue; and. • the inability to commercialize new products.. Although we have, and intend to maintain, product liability insurance, the coverage limits of our insurance policies may not be adequate to protect us from any liabilities we may incur, and one or more claims brought against us for uninsured liabilities or in excess of our insurance coverage may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts or scope to protect us against losses. Any claims against us, regardless of their merit, could severely harm our reputation and financial condition, strain our management and other resources and adversely affect or eliminate the prospects for commercialization or sales of a product which is the subject of any such claim. In addition, a recall of our products, whether or not as a result of a product liability claim, could result in decreased demand for our products, injury to our reputation, significant litigation and other costs, substantial monetary awards to or costly settlements with patients, loss of revenue and our inability to commercialize new products or product candidates.. 20. We currently are involved in litigation, and may face future claims, that could adversely affect our business and. financial condition, divert management's attention from our business, and subject us to significant liabilities.. On January 3, 2017, a stockholder purporting to represent a class of persons who purchased our securities between August 2, 2016 and November 16, 2016, filed a lawsuit against us and certain of our officers in the United States District Court for the Central District of California. The lawsuit alleges that we made materially false and misleading statements and failed to disclose material adverse facts about our business, operational and financial performance, in violation of federal securities laws, relating to FDA PMA for our Nellix EVAS System. On January 11, 2017, a second stockholder filed a similar lawsuit against us and certain of our officers in the United States District Court for the Central District of California. The plaintiffs sought unspecified monetary damages on behalf of the alleged class, interest, and attorney's fees and costs of litigation. The first lawsuit, Nguyen v. Endologix, Inc. et al., Case No. 2:17-cv-0017 AB (PLAx) (C.D. Cal.), was consolidated with the second lawsuit, Ahmed v. Endologix, Inc. et al, Case No. 8:17-cv-00061 AB (PLAx) (C.D. Cal.), and lead Nguyen plaintiff filed a consolidated First Amended Complaint.  On December 5, 2017, the District Court granted Endologix's motion to dismiss lead plaintiff's First Amended Complaint, with leave to amend.  On January 9, 2018, lead plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint.. Four shareholders have filed derivative lawsuits on behalf of Endologix, the nominal plaintiff, based on allegations substantially similar to those alleged by lead plaintiff in Nguyen.  Those actions consist of:  Sindlinger v. McDermott et al., Case No. BC662280 (Los Angeles Superior Court); Abraham v. McDermott et al., Case No. 30-2018-00968971-CU-BT-CSC (Orange County Superior Court); and Green v. McDermott et al., Case No. 8:17-cv-01155-AB (PLAx), which has been consolidated with Cocco v. McDermott et al., Case No. 8:17-cv-01183-AB (PLAx) (C.D. Cal.).. Although we believe that these lawsuits are without merit and intend to defend ourselves vigorously, we are not able to predict the ultimate outcome of these lawsuits. It is possible that they could cause us to incur substantial costs and that they could be resolved adversely to us, result in substantial damages, result in or be connected to additional claims, and divert management's attention and resources, any of which could harm our business. While we maintain director and officer liability insurance, the amount of insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover these claims and other claims to which we may become subject, and the continued availability of this insurance cannot be assured. Protracted litigation, including any adverse outcomes, may have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations or financial condition and could subject us to adverse publicity and require us to incur significant legal fees.. In July 2017, we learned that the SEC issued a Formal Order of Investigation to investigate, among other things, events surrounding the Nellix EVAS System and the prospect of its FDA pre-market approval. We are fully cooperating with the investigation but cannot predict its outcome or the timing of the investigation's conclusions.. Our ability to maintain our competitive position depends on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel.. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to retain and motivate key managerial, technical, and sales personnel, as well as our ability to continue to attract and retain additional highly qualified personnel. We compete for such personnel with other companies. We may be unsuccessful in retaining our current personnel or in hiring or retaining qualified personnel in the future. Key personnel may depart for various reasons, including as a result of difficulties with change or a desire not to remain with our company. Any unanticipated loss or interruption of services of our management team and our key personnel could significantly reduce our ability to meet our strategic objectives because it may not be possible for us to find appropriate replacement personnel should the need arise. Loss of key personnel or the inability to hire or retain qualified personnel in the future could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate successfully.. If our facilities or systems are damaged or destroyed, we may experience delays that could negatively impact our revenues or have other adverse effects.. Our facilities and systems may be affected by natural or man-made disasters.  We currently conduct our manufacturing, development and management activities in Santa Rosa, California and Irvine, California, near known earthquake fault zones and seasonal wildfire activity. Our finished goods inventory is split between our Santa Rosa and Irvine locations and our distribution centers in Memphis, Tennessee and Tilburg, The Netherlands. We have taken precautions to safeguard our facilities and systems, including insurance, health and safety protocols, and off-site storage of computer data. However, our facilities and systems may be vulnerable to earthquakes, fire, storm, power loss, telecommunications failures, physical and software break-ins, software viruses and similar events which could cause substantial delays in our operations, damage or destroy our equipment or inventory, and cause us to incur additional expenses. In addition, the insurance coverage we maintain may not be adequate to cover our losses in any particular case and may not continue to be available to use on acceptable terms, or at all.. 21. Failure to protect our information technology infrastructure against cyber-based attacks, network security breaches, service interruptions, or data corruption could significantly disrupt our operations and adversely affect our business and operating results.. We rely on information technology and telephone networks and systems, including the Internet, to process and transmit sensitive electronic information and to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities, including sales, billing, customer service, procurement and supply chain, manufacturing, and distribution. We use enterprise information technology systems to record, process, and summarize financial information and results of operations for internal reporting purposes and to comply with regulatory financial reporting, legal, and tax requirements. Our information technology systems, some of which are managed by third-parties, may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to computer viruses, attacks by computer hackers, failures during the process of upgrading or replacing software, databases or components thereof, power outages, hardware failures, telecommunication failures, user errors or catastrophic events. We are not aware of any breaches of our information technology infrastructure. Despite the precautionary measures we have taken to prevent breakdowns in our information technology and telephone systems, if our systems suffer severe damage, disruption or shutdown and we are unable to effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, our business and operating results may suffer.. We are subject to credit risk from our accounts receivable related to our product sales, which include sales within European countries that are currently experiencing economic turmoil.. The majority of our accounts receivable arise from product sales in the United States. However, we also have significant receivable balances from customers within the European Union, Japan, Brazil, and Argentina. Our accounts receivable in the United States are primarily due from public and private hospitals. Our accounts receivable outside of the United States are primarily due from public and private hospitals and to a lesser extent independent distributors. Our historical write-offs of accounts receivable have not been significant.. We monitor the financial performance and credit worthiness of our customers so that we can properly assess and respond to changes in their credit profile. Our independent distributors and sub-dealers operate in certain countries such as Greece and Italy, where economic conditions continue to present challenges to their businesses, and thus, could place in risk the amounts due to us from them. These distributors are owed amounts from public hospitals that are funded by their governments. Adverse financial conditions in these countries may continue, thus negatively affecting the length of time that it will take us to collect associated accounts receivable, or impact the likelihood of ultimate collection.. Consolidation in the health care industry could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations.. The health care industry has been consolidating, and organizations such as GPOs, independent delivery networks, and large single accounts continue to consolidate purchasing decisions for many of our health care provider customers. As a result, transactions with customers are larger, more complex, and tend to involve more long-term contracts. The purchasing power of these larger customers has increased, and may continue to increase, causing downward pressure on product pricing. If we are not one of the providers selected by one of these organizations, we may be precluded from making sales to its members or participants. Even if we are one of the selected providers, we may be at a disadvantage relative to other selected providers that are able to offer volume discounts based on purchases of a broader range of medical equipment and supplies. Further, we may be required to commit to pricing that has a material adverse effect on our revenues and profit margins, business, financial condition and results of operations. We expect that market demand, governmental regulation, third-party reimbursement policies and societal pressures will continue to change the worldwide health care industry, resulting in further business consolidations and alliances, which may exert further downward pressure on the prices of our products and could adversely impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. If any future acquisitions or business development efforts are unsuccessful, our business may be harmed.. As part of our business strategy to be an innovative leader in the treatment of aortic disorders, we may need to acquire other companies, technologies, and product lines in the future. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the following:. • the possibility that we will pay more than the value we derive from the acquisition, which could result in future non-cash impairment charges;. • difficulties in integration of the operations, technologies, and products of the acquired companies, which may require significant attention of our management that otherwise would be available for the ongoing development of our business;. • the assumption of certain known and unknown liabilities of the acquired companies; and. • difficulties in retaining key relationships with employees, customers, partners, and suppliers of the acquired company.. 22. In addition, we may invest in new technologies that may not succeed in the marketplace. If they are not successful, we may be unable to recover our initial investment, which could include the cost of acquiring the license, funding development efforts, acquiring products, or purchasing inventory. Any of these would negatively impact our future growth and cash reserves.. Risks Related to Our Financial Condition. We have a history of operating losses and may be required to obtain additional funds to pursue our business strategy.. We have a history of operating losses and may need to seek additional capital in the future. We believe that our existing liquidity will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next 12 to 24 months. However, we may need to obtain additional financing to pursue our business strategy, to respond to new competitive pressures or to act on opportunities to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, products or technologies. Our cash requirements in the future may be significantly different from our current estimates and depend on many factors, including:. • the results of our commercialization efforts for our existing and future products;. • the revenues generated by sales of our existing and future products;. • the need for additional capital to fund existing and future development programs;. • the need to adapt to changing technologies and technical requirements, and the costs related thereto;. • the costs involved in obtaining and enforcing patents or any litigation by third parties regarding intellectual property;. • the establishment of high volume manufacturing and increased sales and marketing capabilities; and. • whether we are successful if we enter into collaborative relationships with other parties.. In addition, we are required to make periodic interest payments to the holders of our senior convertible notes and term loan and to make payments of principal upon conversion or maturity. We may also be required to purchase our senior convertible notes from the holders thereof upon the occurrence of a fundamental change involving our company. To finance the foregoing, we may seek funds through borrowings or through additional rounds of financing, including private or public equity or debt offerings and collaborative arrangements with corporate partners. We may be unable to raise funds on favorable terms, or at all.. The sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities could result in additional dilution to our stockholders. If we borrow additional funds or issue debt securities, these securities could have rights superior to holders of our common stock, and could contain covenants that will restrict our operations. We might have to obtain funds through arrangements with collaborative partners or others that may require us to relinquish rights to our technologies, product candidates, or products that we otherwise would not relinquish. If we do not obtain additional resources, our ability to capitalize on business opportunities will be limited, and the growth of our business will be harmed.. Changes in the credit environment and covenant restrictions under our financing arrangements may adversely affect our business and financial condition.. Future volatility in the global financial markets could increase borrowing costs or affect our ability to access the capital markets. Future worsening economic conditions may also adversely affect the business of our customers, including their ability to pay for our products. This could result in a decrease in the demand for our products, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies, and increased price competition.. Further, our ability to enter into or maintain existing financing arrangements on acceptable terms could be adversely affected if there is a material decline in the demand for our products or the prices that we can command for our products, our customers become insolvent or decide to reduce or discontinue their purchase of our products, we encounter significant regulatory, quality, manufacturing or compliance issues, or there is any other material adverse event which impacts our business. Any deterioration in our key financial ratios, or non-compliance with certain financial, reporting, regulatory or other covenants in existing or future loan or credit agreements may result in an event of default under such agreements, which could also adversely affect our business and financial condition.. We have limited resources to invest in research and development and to grow our business and may need to raise additional funds in the future for these activities.. We believe that our growth will depend, in significant part, on our ability to develop new technologies for the treatment of AAA and other aortic disorders, and technology complementary to our current products. Our existing resources may not allow. 23. us to conduct all of the research and development activities that we believe would be beneficial for our future growth. As a result, we may need to seek funds in the future to finance these activities. If we are unable to raise funds on favorable terms, or at all, we may not be able to increase our research and development activities and the growth of our business may be negatively impacted.. The accounting method for convertible debt securities that may be settled in cash, such as our senior convertible notes, is the subject of recent changes that could have a material effect on our reported financial results.. In May 2008, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\"), issued FASB Staff Position No. APB 14-1, Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash Upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement), which has subsequently been codified as Accounting Standards Codification 470-20, Debt with Conversion and Other Options, which we refer to as ASC 470-20. Under ASC 470-20, an entity must separately account for the liability and equity components of the convertible debt instruments (such as our senior convertible notes) that may be settled entirely or partially in cash upon conversion in a manner that reflects the issuer's economic interest cost. The effect of ASC 470-20 on the accounting for our senior convertible notes is that the equity component is required to be included in the additional paid-in capital section of stockholders' equity on our consolidated balance sheets and the value of the equity component would be treated as original issue discount for purposes of accounting for the debt component of such notes. As a result, we will be required to record a greater amount of non-cash interest expense in current periods presented as a result of the accretion of the discounted carrying value of our senior convertible notes to their face amount over the term of such notes. We will report lower net income in our financial results because ASC 470-20 will require interest to include both the current period's accretion of the debt discount and the instrument's coupon interest, which could adversely affect our reported or future financial results and the market price of our common stock.. In addition, under certain circumstances, convertible debt instruments (such as the notes) that may be settled entirely or partly in cash are currently accounted for utilizing the treasury stock method, the effect of which is that the shares issuable upon conversion of the notes are not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share except to the extent that the conversion value of the notes exceeds their principal amount. Under the treasury stock method, for diluted earnings per share purposes, the transaction is accounted for as if the number of shares of common stock that would be necessary to settle such excess, if we elected to settle such excess in shares, are issued. We cannot be sure that the accounting standards in the future will continue to permit the use of the treasury stock method. If we are unable to use the treasury stock method in accounting for the shares issuable upon conversion of the notes, then our diluted earnings per share would be adversely affected.. Servicing our debt requires a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow from our business to pay our debt.. Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, to pay interest on, to pay any cash due upon conversion of or to refinance our indebtedness, including the senior convertible notes, depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not continue to generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to service our debt and make necessary capital expenditures. If we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our debt obligations.. The expense and potential unavailability of insurance coverage for our company may have an adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.. While we currently have insurance for our business, property, directors and officers, and product liability, such insurance coverage is increasingly costly and the scope of coverage is narrower, and we may be required to assume more risk in the future. If we are subject to claims or suffer a loss or damage in excess of our insurance coverage, we will be required to cover the amounts outside of or in excess of our insurance limits. If we are subject to claims or suffer a loss or damage that is outside of our insurance coverage, we may incur significant costs associated with loss or damage that could have an adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Furthermore, any claims made on our insurance policies may impact our ability to obtain or maintain insurance coverage at reasonable costs or at all. We do not have the financial resources to self-insure, and it is unlikely that we will have these financial resources in the foreseeable future. Our product liability insurance covers our products and business operations, but we may need to increase and expand this coverage commensurate with our expanding business.. 24. Risks Related to Regulation of Our Industry. Healthcare policy changes, including recent federal legislation to reform the United States healthcare system, may have a material adverse effect on us.. In response to perceived increases in health care costs in recent years, there have been and continue to be proposals by the federal government, state governments, regulators and third-party payors to control these costs and, more generally, to reform the United States healthcare system. Certain of these proposals could limit the prices we are able to charge for our products or the amounts of reimbursement available for our products and could limit the acceptance and availability of our products. Moreover, as discussed below, recent federal legislation would impose significant new taxes on medical device makers such as us. The adoption of some or all of these proposals, including the recent federal legislation, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.. On March 23, 2010, President Obama signed the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act (the \"PPACA\"). The total cost imposed on the medical device industry by the PPACA may be up to approximately $20 billion over ten years. The PPACA includes, among other things, a deductible 2.3% excise tax on any entity that manufactures or imports medical devices offered for sale in the United States, with limited exceptions, effective January 1, 2013. This excise tax will result in a significant increase in the tax burden on our industry, and if any efforts we undertake to offset the excise tax are unsuccessful, the increased tax burden could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Other elements of the PPACA, including comparative effectiveness research, an independent payment advisory board, payment system reforms including shared savings pilots and other provisions, may significantly affect the payment for, and the availability of, healthcare services and result in fundamental changes to federal healthcare reimbursement programs, any of which may materially affect numerous aspects of our business.. On December 18, 2015, President Obama signed the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2016, which imposed a two-year moratorium on the 2.3% excise tax beginning on January 1, 2016 and ending on December 31, 2017. On January 22, 2018, the continuing resolution extended this moratorium for an additional two years, through the 2019 calendar year. The continuing resolution provides that this additional delay applies to sales made after December 31, 2017. Therefore, as a result of both moratoriums, the medical devices tax will not apply to any sales made between January 1, 2016 and December 31, 2019. Upon the end of this period we believe the PPACA could continue to have an adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows.. Our future success depends on our ability to develop, receive regulatory clearance or approval for, and introduce new products or product enhancements that will be accepted by the market in a timely manner.. It is important to our business that we continue to build a more complete product offering for treatment of AAA and other aortic disorders. As such, our success will depend in part on our ability to develop and introduce new products. However, we may not be able to successfully develop and obtain regulatory clearance or approval for product enhancements, or new products, or these products may not be accepted by physicians or the payors who financially support many of the procedures performed with our products.. The success of any new product offering or enhancement to an existing product will depend on several factors, including our ability to:. • properly identify and anticipate physicians and patient needs;. • develop and introduce new products or product enhancements in a timely manner;. • avoid infringing upon the intellectual property rights of third parties;. • demonstrate, if required, the safety and efficacy of new products with data from preclinical studies and clinical trials;. • obtain the necessary regulatory clearances or approvals for new products or product enhancements;. • be fully FDA-compliant with marketing of new devices or modified products;. • provide adequate training to potential users of our products;. • receive adequate coverage and reimbursement for procedures performed with our products; and. • develop an effective and FDA-compliant, dedicated marketing and distribution network.. If we do not develop new products or product enhancements in time to meet market demand or if there is insufficient demand for these products or enhancements, our results of operations will suffer.. 25. Our business is subject to extensive governmental regulation that could make it more expensive and time consuming for us to introduce new or improved products.. Our products must comply with regulatory requirements imposed by the FDA in the United States, and similar agencies in foreign jurisdictions. These requirements involve lengthy and detailed laboratory and clinical testing procedures, sampling activities, an extensive agency review process, and other costly and time-consuming procedures. It often takes several years to satisfy these requirements, depending on the complexity and novelty of the product. We also are subject to numerous additional licensing and regulatory requirements relating to safe working conditions, manufacturing practices, environmental protection, fire hazard control, and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances. Some of the most important requirements we face include:. • FDA Regulations (Title 21 CFR);. • European Union CE mark requirements, including the new Medical Device Regulations and MEDDEV 2.7.1 Rev.4, which implement stricter requirements for clinical data to support new product approvals;. • Other international regulatory approval requirements;. • Medical Device Single Audit Program (\"MDSAP\");. • Medical Device Quality Management System Requirements (21 CFR 820, ISO 13485:2003, EN ISO 13485:2012, ISO 13485:2016, and other similar international regulations);. • Occupational Safety and Health Administration requirements; and. • California Department of Health Services requirements.. Government regulation may impede our ability to conduct continuing clinical trials and to manufacture our existing and future products. Government regulation also could delay our marketing of new products for a considerable period of time and impose costly procedures on our activities. The FDA and other regulatory agencies may not approve any of our future products on a timely basis, if at all. Any delay in obtaining, or failure to obtain, such approvals could negatively impact our marketing of any proposed products and reduce our product revenues.. Our products remain subject to strict regulatory controls on manufacturing, marketing and use. We may be forced to modify or recall our product after release in response to regulatory action or unanticipated difficulties encountered in general use. Any such action could have a material effect on the reputation of our products and on our business and financial position.. Further, regulations may change, and any additional regulation could limit or restrict our ability to use any of our technologies, which could harm our business. We could also be subject to new international, federal, state or local regulations that could affect our research and development programs and harm our business in unforeseen ways. If this happens, we may have to incur significant costs to comply with such laws and regulations, which will harm our results of operations.. The potential off-label promotion and subsequent off-label use of our products may harm our image in the marketplace and result in government investigations and/or penalties.. The products we currently market have been cleared or approved by the FDA and international regulatory authorities for specific indications for use, including in specific AAA anatomies. Physicians have the discretion, however, to use our products outside of those cleared/approved indications for use, a practice known as \"off-label\" use. Off-label use of our and our competitors' products by physicians is common in the AAA field.  Though physicians in most countries have the discretion to engage in off-label use of our products, if we are deemed by the FDA or other regulatory bodies to have engaged in the promotion of our products for any such off-label use, we could be subject to prohibitions on the sale or marketing of our products in the United States or other jurisdictions, face significant fines and penalties, and be required to enter into onerous corporate integrity agreements, consent decrees or similar court or agency-imposed agreements.  The imposition of any such fines, penalties or sanctions could affect our reputation and position within the industry and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. Additionally, the use of our products for indications other than those cleared/approved by the FDA or international regulatory authorities may result in suboptimal outcomes that could harm our reputation in the marketplace among physicians and patients. Physicians may misuse our products or use improper techniques if they are not adequately trained, potentially leading to injury and an increased risk of product liability and similar claims. If our products are misused or used with improper technique, we may become subject to costly litigation by our customers or their patients. Product liability claims could divert management's attention from our core business, be expensive to defend, and result in sizable damage awards against us that may not be covered by insurance.. 26. Our products may in the future be subject to product recalls or voluntary market withdrawals that could harm our reputation, business and financial results.. The FDA and similar foreign governmental authorities have the authority to require the recall of commercialized products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture that could affect patient safety. In the case of the FDA, the authority to require a recall must be based on an FDA finding that there is a reasonable probability that the device would cause serious adverse health consequences or death. Manufacturers may, under their own initiative, recall a product if any material deficiency in a device is found or suspected. A government-mandated recall or voluntary recall by us or one of our distributors could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors, design or labeling defects or other issues. Recalls, which include corrections as well as removals, of any of our products would divert managerial and financial resources and could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, harm our reputation with customers, and reduce our ability to achieve expected revenues.. We are required to comply with medical device reporting (\"MDR\") requirements and must report certain malfunctions, deaths, and serious injuries associated with our products, which can result in voluntary corrective actions or agency enforcement actions.. Under the FDA MDR regulations, medical device manufacturers are required to submit information to the FDA when they receive a report or become aware that a device has or may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or has or may have a malfunction that would likely cause or contribute to death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. All manufacturers placing medical devices on the market in the European Economic Area are legally bound to report any serious or potentially serious incidents involving devices they produce or sell to the regulatory agency, or Competent Authority, in whose jurisdiction the incident occurred.. Malfunction of our products could result in future voluntary corrective actions, such as recalls, including corrections, or customer notifications, or agency action, such as inspection or enforcement actions. If malfunctions do occur, we may be unable to correct the malfunctions adequately or prevent further malfunctions, in which case we may need to cease manufacture and distribution of the affected products, initiate voluntary recalls, and redesign the products. Regulatory authorities may also take actions against us, such as ordering recalls, imposing fines, or seizing the affected products. Any corrective action, whether voluntary or involuntary, will require the dedication of our time and capital, distract management from operating our business, and may harm our reputation and financial results.. We may be subject to federal, state and foreign healthcare fraud and abuse laws and regulations, and a finding of failure to comply with such laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our operations may be directly or indirectly affected by various broad federal, state or foreign healthcare fraud and abuse laws. In particular, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits any person from knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration, directly or indirectly, in return for or to induce the referring, ordering, leasing, purchasing or arranging for or recommending the ordering, purchasing or leasing of an item or service, for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. We are also subject to the federal HIPAA statute, which created federal criminal laws that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any health care benefit program or making false statements relating to health care matters, and federal \"sunshine\" laws that require transparency regarding financial arrangements with health care providers, such as the reporting and disclosure requirements imposed by PPACA on drug manufacturers regarding any \"transfer of value\" made or distributed to prescribers and other health care providers.. In addition, the federal False Claims Act prohibits persons from knowingly filing, or causing to be filed, a false claim to, or the knowing use of false statements to obtain payment from the federal government. Suits filed under the False Claims Act, known as \"qui tam\" actions, can be brought by any individual on behalf of the government and such individuals, commonly known as \"whistleblowers,\" may share in any amounts paid by the entity to the government in fines or settlement. When an entity is determined to have violated the False Claims Act, it may be required to pay up to three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus civil penalties for each separate false claim. Various states have also enacted laws modeled after the federal False Claims Act.. Many states have also, adopted laws similar to each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers as well as laws that restrict our marketing activities with physicians, and require us to report consulting and other payments to physicians. Some states mandate implementation of commercial compliance programs to ensure compliance with these laws. We also are subject to foreign fraud and abuse laws, which vary by country. For instance, in the European Union, legislation on inducements offered to physicians and other healthcare workers or hospitals differ from country to country. Breach of the laws relating to such inducements may expose us to the imposition of criminal sanctions.. 27. The risk of our being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. Moreover, recent health care reform legislation has strengthened these laws. Further, we expect there will continue to be federal and state laws and/or regulations, proposed and implemented, that could impact our operations and business. The extent to which future legislation or regulations, if any, relating to health care fraud abuse laws and/or enforcement, may be enacted or what effect such legislation or regulation would have on our business remains uncertain. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental regulations that apply to us now or in the future, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from governmental health care programs, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results.. We may be subject to health information privacy and security laws and regulations, and a finding of failure to comply with such laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business.. The HIPAA statute, and its implementing regulations, safeguard the privacy and security of individually-identifiable health information. Certain of our operations may be subject to these requirements. Penalties for noncompliance with these rules include both criminal and civil penalties. In addition, the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (\"HITECH Act\") expanded federal health information privacy and security protections. Among other things, HITECH makes certain of HIPAA's privacy and security standards directly applicable to \"business associates\"-independent contractors or agents of covered entities that receive or obtain protected health information in connection with providing a service on behalf of a covered entity. HITECH also set forth new notification requirements for health data security breaches, increased the civil and criminal penalties that may be imposed against covered entities, business associates and possibly other persons, and gave state attorneys general new authority to enforce HIPAA and seek attorney's fees and costs associated with pursuing federal civil actions.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. We will be obligated to issue additional shares of our common stock to the former stockholders of Nellix as a result of our satisfaction of a certain milestone set forth in the merger agreement with Nellix and the other parties thereto, resulting in stock ownership dilution.. Under the terms of the merger agreement with Nellix and the other parties thereto, we agreed to issue additional shares of our common stock to the former stockholders of Nellix as contingent consideration upon our satisfaction of one or both of two milestones related to the Nellix System and described in the merger agreement, or upon a change of control of our company prior to our completion of one or both milestones. On June 17, 2014, we issued an additional 2.7 million shares of our common stock to the former stockholders of Nellix upon achievement of a revenue-based milestone. One additional regulatory related milestone remains, and the maximum aggregate number of shares of our common stock remaining issuable to the former Nellix stockholders upon our achievement of such regulatory milestone, or upon a change of control of our company prior to our achievement of such milestone, assuming the average per share closing price of our common stock (as determined under the terms of the Nellix merger agreement) at such time is 2.9 million shares.. Issuing additional shares of our common stock to the former stockholders in satisfaction of contingent consideration dilutes the ownership interests of holders of our common stock on the dates of such issuances. If we are unable to realize the strategic, operational and financial benefits anticipated from our acquisition of Nellix, our stockholders may experience dilution of their ownership interests in our company upon any such future issuances of shares of our common stock without receiving any commensurate benefit.. Our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter, which may negatively impact our stock price in the future.. Our quarterly revenues and results of operations may fluctuate due to, among others, the following reasons:. • physician acceptance of our products;. • the conduct and results of clinical trials;. • the timing and expense of obtaining future regulatory approvals;. • fluctuations in our expenses associated with expanding our operations;. • the introduction of new products by our competitors;. • the timing of product launch may lead to excess or obsolete inventory;. • supplier, manufacturing or quality problems with our devices;. 28. • litigation expenses;. • the timing of stocking orders from our distributors;. • changes in our pricing policies or in the pricing policies of our competitors or suppliers; and. • changes in third-party payors' reimbursement policies.. Because of these and possibly other factors, it is likely that in some future period our operating results will not meet investor expectations or those of public market analysts.. Any unanticipated change in revenues or operating results is likely to cause our stock price to fluctuate since such changes reflect new information available to investors and analysts. New information may cause investors and analysts to revalue our business, which could cause a decline in the trading price of our stock.. The price of our stock may fluctuate unpredictably in response to factors unrelated to our operating performance.. The stock market periodically experiences significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause the market price of our common stock to drop. In particular, the market price of securities of medical device companies, like ours, has been very unpredictable and may vary in response to:. • announcements by us or our competitors concerning technological innovations;. • introductions of new products;. • FDA and foreign regulatory actions;. • developments or disputes relating to patents or proprietary rights;. • maintain the effectiveness of our Quality System;. • failure of our results of operations to meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors;. • changes in stock market analyst recommendations regarding our common stock;. • the conversion of some or all of our senior convertible notes and any sales in the public market of shares of our common stock issued upon conversion of such notes;. • changes in healthcare policy in the United States or other countries; and. • general stock market and economic conditions and other factors unrelated to our operating performance.. These factors may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. We may not achieve our financial guidance or projected goals and objectives in the time periods that we anticipate or announce publicly, which could have an adverse effect on our business and could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline.. We typically provide financial guidance that is based on management's then current expectations and typically does not contain any significant margin of error or cushion for any specific uncertainties or for the uncertainties inherent in all financial forecasting. The failure to achieve our financial guidance or the projections of analysts and investors could have an adverse effect on our business, disappoint analysts and investors, and cause the market price of our common stock to drop. We also set goals and objectives for, and make public statements regarding, the timing of certain accomplishments and milestones regarding our business or operating results, such as the timing of financial objectives, new products, clinical trials, and regulatory actions. The actual timing of these events can vary dramatically due to a number of factors, including the risk factors described in this report. As a result, we may be unable to achieve our projected goals and objectives in the time periods that we anticipate or announce publicly. The failure to achieve such projected goals and objectives in the time periods that we anticipate or announce publicly could have an adverse effect on our business, disappoint investors and analysts, and cause the market price of our common stock to decline.. Trading in our stock over the last twelve months has been limited, so investors may not be able to sell as much stock as they wish at prevailing prices.. The average daily trading volume in our common stock for the twelve months ended December 31, 2017 was approximately 1,142,122 shares. If limited trading in our stock continues, it may be difficult for investors to sell their shares in the public market at any given time at prevailing prices. Moreover, the market price for shares of our common stock may be made more volatile because of the relatively low volume of trading in our common stock. When trading volume is low,. 29. significant price movement can be caused by the trading of a relatively small number of shares. Volatility in our common stock could cause stockholders to incur substantial losses.. Some provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law may make takeover attempts difficult, which could depress the price of our stock and inhibit one's ability to receive a premium price for their shares.. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of our business, even if such change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation allows our board of directors to issue up to five million shares of preferred stock and to fix the rights and preferences of such shares without stockholder approval. Any such issuance could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire our business and may adversely affect the rights of our stockholders. In addition, our board of directors is divided into three classes for staggered terms of three years. We are also subject to anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law, each of which could delay or prevent a change of control. Together these provisions may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of us, adversely affecting the market price of our common stock.. We do not anticipate declaring any cash dividends on our common stock.. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not plan to pay any cash dividends in the near future. Our current policy is to retain all funds and any earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business. Our revolving credit facility and term loan contain restrictions prohibiting us from paying any cash dividends without the lender's prior approval. If we do not pay dividends, a return on one's investment may only occur if our stock price rises above the price it was purchased."
