[1] "ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects could be materially and adversely affected by the following risks or uncertainties. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we have identified as material, but they are not the only risks and uncertainties we face. Our business is also subject to general risks and uncertainties that affect many other companies, including overall economic and industry conditions, as well as other risks not currently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial. If any of such risks and uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects could differ materially from the plans, projections and other forward-looking statements included in the section titled \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other public filings.. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry. We may not be able to add new subscribers, retain existing subscribers or increase sales to existing subscribers, which could adversely affect our operating results.. Our growth is dependent on our ability to continue to attract and acquire new subscribers while retaining existing subscribers and expanding the products and services we sell to them. Growth in the demand for our products and services may be inhibited, and we may be unable to grow our subscriber base, for a number of reasons, including, but not limited to:. • our failure to develop or offer new or enhanced products and services in a timely manner that keeps pace with new technologies, competitor offerings and the evolving needs of our subscribers;. • difficulties providing or maintaining a high level of subscriber satisfaction, which could cause our existing subscribers to cancel their subscriptions or stop referring prospective subscribers to us;. • increases in our subscriber churn rates or our failure to convert subscribers from introductory, discounted products to full priced solutions;. • perceived or actual security, availability, integrity, reliability, quality or compatibility problems with our solutions, including related to unscheduled downtime, outages or network security breaches;. • our inability to maintain awareness of our brands, including due to fragmentation of our marketing efforts due to our historical approach of maintaining a portfolio of multiple brands rather than focusing our resources on a single brand or a few brands;. • continued or increased competition in the SMB market, including greater marketing efforts or investments by our competitors in advertising and promoting their brands or in product development;. • changes in search engine ranking algorithms or in search terms used by potential subscribers;. • our inability to market our solutions in a cost-effective manner to new subscribers or to our existing subscribers due to changes in regulation, or changes in the enforcement of existing regulation, that would affect our marketing practices.. Our total subscriber base decreased during the year ended December 31, 2017 and we expect that it will continue to decrease for the foreseeable future. Key factors contributing to the decrease in our subscriber base are are discussed in \"Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\" If we are not successful in addressing these factors or the other factors listed above, we may not be able to return to or maintain positive subscriber growth in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.. We must keep up with rapid and ongoing technological change, marketing trends and shifts in consumer demand to remain competitive in a rapidly evolving industry.. The cloud-based technology and online marketing tool industries are characterized by rapid and ongoing technological change, frequent new product and service introductions and evolving industry standards. The manner in which we market to our subscribers and potential subscribers must keep pace with technological change, legal requirements, market trends, and shifts in how our solutions are found, purchased and used by subscribers. For example, application marketplaces, mobile platforms, advertising and marketing efforts by competitors, and new search engines and search methods are changing the way consumers find, purchase and use our solutions. Our future success will depend on our ability to adapt to rapidly changing technologies, to adapt our solutions and marketing practices to evolving industry standards and to anticipate subscriber needs and preferences. If we are not able to offer compelling and innovative solutions, take advantage of new technology, make our products effective for access and use on mobile devices, adapt our marketing practices or anticipate changing trends, we may be unable to continue to attract new subscribers or sell additional solutions to our existing subscribers. In addition, if existing technologies or systems, such as the domain name system which directs traffic on the Internet, become obsolete, or if we fail to anticipate and manage technologies that prevent or harm our offerings, such as technology intended to block email marketing, our revenue and operating results may be adversely affected.. We face significant competition for our solutions in the SMB market, which we expect will continue to intensify. As a result of such competitive pressures, we may not be able to maintain or improve our competitive position or market share.. 7. Table of Contents. The SMB market for cloud-based technologies and online marketing tools is highly competitive and constantly evolving. We expect competition to increase from existing competitors as well as potential new market entrants. Some of our competitors have greater marketing, engineering, product development and other resources, more brand recognition and consumer awareness, more diversified or better integrated product offerings, greater international scope or larger subscriber bases than we do, or may partner with large Internet companies that can offer these resources. As a result, we may not be able to compete successfully against them.. We have faced and expect to continue to face competition in our web presence and domain segments, both domestically and internationally, from competitors in the domain, hosting and website builder markets such as GoDaddy, 1 and 1, Wix, Squarespace, Weebly, Web.com and Wordpress.com, as well as from large companies like Amazon, Microsoft and Google, which offer web hosting or website builders, domain registration and other cloud-based services, and eBay and Facebook, which offer Internet marketing platforms. For our email marketing segment, we expect continued competition from MailChimp and other SMB-focused lower-cost email marketing vendors, as well as additional competition from larger companies such as Microsoft.. We believe that our business has been, and may continue to be, affected by changes in the behavior of consumers when searching for web presence and marketing solutions. In particular, consumers have increasingly been searching for these solutions using brand related search terms as opposed to unbranded search terms, such as hosting, website builders or email marketing. We believe this trend has benefited competitors who have invested more heavily in, and used a broader array of marketing channels in, building consumer awareness of their brand than we have. In addition, searches for specific products such as \"cloud hosting,\" \"social media marketing,\" and \"e-commerce,\" are growing, which we believe has benefited competitors who market more heavily in these and other specific product areas.. There are also relatively few barriers to entry in this market, especially for providers of niche services, which often have low capital and operating expenses and the ability to quickly bring products that meet specific subscriber needs to market. Accordingly, as this market continues to develop, the number of competitors may increase. The continued entry of competitors into the markets for cloud-based technologies and online marketing tools, and the rapid growth of some competitors that have already entered these markets, have made and may continue to make it difficult for us to maintain our market position.. In addition, in an attempt to gain market share, competitors have and may continue to offer more aggressive price discounts or alternative pricing models, such as \"freemium\" pricing in which a basic offering is provided for free with advanced features provided for a fee, on the services they offer, bundle several services at reduced prices, or increase commissions paid to their referral sources. These pricing pressures have in the past required and may continue to require us to match these discounts and commissions in order to remain competitive, which could reduce our margins or cause us to fail to attract new subscribers that decide to purchase the discounted service offerings of our competitors.. Our business and operations have become increasingly complex over the past several years due to acquisitions and organizational change, which has and may continue to result in operational and other challenges.. As a result of acquisitions and internal growth, we increased our revenue from $629.8 million in the year ended December 31, 2014 to $1.2 billion in the year ended December 31, 2017. During this time period, we completed numerous acquisitions, including the acquisition of the Directi web presence business in January 2014, which significantly expanded our international operations, and the acquisition of Constant Contact in February 2016.. Due to our history of acquisitions, we offer our products and services through numerous brands that operate from different control panels, billing systems, information technology and other systems. As a result, compliance assessments, compliance-related changes, and roll-outs of new products and product upgrades often need to be implemented more than once. This level of complexity has sometimes resulted and may continue to result in difficulties maintaining effective internal controls, additional compliance costs and risks, product roll-out inefficiencies, and other operational challenges.. In particular, differences across our multiple billing systems have at times made it challenging for us to accurately and consistently determine certain enterprise-wide operational metrics, such as total subscribers. Total subscribers and other operational metrics, which we voluntarily disclose, historically have not been subject to the same level of reporting controls as our financial statements and other financial information we are required to disclose. Also, we have identified in the past, and may in the future identify, errors or bugs in the systems we use to generate operational metrics. We are working to improve our controls and processes for total subscribers and other operational metrics, but errors with respect to these metrics could still occur.  Any errors, delays, inconsistencies in data reporting, or similar challenges could negatively impact our business decisions or lead to inaccurate disclosure, which could harm our operating results, our ability to operate our business and our investors' view of us.. In 2018, we plan to make significant investments to improve our customer experience and integrate our business. Although we believe that these investments will position us for growth in the future, we will recognize most of the costs associated with these investments earlier than most of the anticipated benefits, and the return on these investments may be. 8. Table of Contents. lower or may develop more slowly than we expect. If we do not achieve the benefits anticipated from these investments, if the achievement of these benefits is delayed, if we are otherwise not successful in simplifying our business or in managing our complexity effectively, our operating results may be negatively affected.. Our growth will be adversely affected if we cannot continue to successfully retain, hire, train and manage our key employees.. Our ability to successfully pursue our growth strategy will depend on our ability to attract, retain and motivate key employees across our business, particularly engineering and development employees and our senior executive team.. Our engineering and development team has undergone several management transitions and a significant amount of organizational change in recent years. These changes, combined with high demand from other technology companies for skilled engineering and technical employees, may make it more challenging to retain key employees or hire replacements if they leave. In addition, candidates making employment decisions, particularly in high-technology industries, often consider the value of any equity they may receive from prospective employers. As a result, any significant volatility in the market price of our common stock, or concerns by potential employees about the performance of our stock, may also contribute to these challenges.. We are also limited in our ability to recruit global talent for our U.S. offices by U.S. immigration laws, and the regulatory environment related to immigration under the current presidential administration may increase the likelihood that immigration laws may be modified in a way that further limits our ability to recruit globally.. Our current executives are not contractually obligated to remain employed by us and may leave at any time.  The loss of any of these individuals could significantly delay or prevent the achievement of, or make it more difficult for us to pursue and execute on, our business objectives.. Our inability to attract and retain qualified individuals could have an adverse effect on our ability to carry out our business plans and objectives and, as a result, our ability to compete could decrease and our operating results could suffer.. We have experienced system, software, Internet, data center and customer support center failures and have not yet implemented a complete disaster recovery plan or a business continuity plan, and any interruptions, delays or failures in our services could harm our reputation, cause us to lose subscribers, or result in unanticipated costs.. We must be able to maintain and operate our applications and systems without interruption. Since our ability to retain and attract subscribers depends on the performance, reliability and availability of our services, as well as in the delivery of our products and services to subscribers, even minor interruptions in our service or losses of data could harm our reputation, particularly if they frequently reoccur. Our applications, network, systems, equipment, power supplies, customer support centers and data centers are subject to various points of failure, including: human error or accidents; improper maintenance; Internet connectivity downtime; computer viruses; physical or electronic security breaches; intentional bad acts such as sabotage, vandalism or terrorism; and natural disasters.. We have experienced system failures, delays and periodic interruptions in service, or outages, due to factors such as power outages and network equipment, storage system, and network configuration failures. In addition, we have experienced outages in the course of ongoing maintenance or when new versions, enhancements and updates to applications, software or systems are released by us or third parties. We may experience future outages that disrupt the operation of our solutions due to these or other factors.. Our systems supporting our web presence and domain segments are not fully redundant, and we have not yet implemented a complete disaster recovery plan or a business continuity plan. Although the redundancies we do have in place will permit us to respond, at least to some degree, to failures of applications and systems, our data centers are vulnerable in the event of failure. Most of our web presence subscribers are hosted across five U.S.-based data centers, one of which is owned by us and the rest of which are co-located, and accordingly, any failure or downtime in these data center facilities would affect a significant percentage of our subscribers. While we have a disaster recovery system that covers most of our email marketing subscribers, this system may not be able to recover all data and services in the event of a significant outage. We do not yet have adequate structures or systems in place to recover from a data center's severe impairment or total destruction, and recovery from the total destruction or severe impairment of any of our major data centers would be extremely difficult and may not be possible at all. Closing any of these data centers without adequate notice could result in lengthy, if not permanent, interruptions in the availability of our solutions and loss of vast amounts of subscriber data.. Our data centers are also susceptible to impairment resulting from electrical power outages due to the amount of power and cooling they require to operate. Since we rely on third parties to provide our data centers with power sufficient to meet our needs, we cannot control whether our data centers will have an adequate amount of electrical resources necessary to meet our subscriber requirements. We attempt to limit exposure to system downtime due to power outages by using backup generators and power supplies. However, these protections may not limit our exposure to power shortages or outages entirely. We also rely. 9. Table of Contents. on third parties to provide Internet connectivity to our data centers. If the connectivity these parties provide is discontinued, disrupted, or does not provide adequate data transmission capacity, our ability to provide services to our subscribers could be compromised.. Our customer support centers are also vulnerable in the event of failure caused by total destruction or severe impairment. The teams in each customer support center are trained to provide brand-specific support services for a discrete subset of our brands, which, along with staffing constraints and differences in software systems between our brands, limits our ability to re-route calls, email and chat from one customer support center to another customer support center. Accordingly, if any of our customer support centers (particularly one of our primary support centers, such as our Arizona, Colorado, Massachusetts or Texas centers or our third-party India center) were to be impaired or destroyed, our ability to re-route calls, email and chat to operational customer support centers or to provide the type of customer support services that the non-operational customer support center had provided to subscribers of a particular brand or brands may be limited.. Any of these events could materially increase our expenses or reduce our revenue, damage our reputation, cause our subscribers to seek reimbursement for services paid for and not received, cause our subscribers to stop referring new subscribers to us, and cause us to lose current and potential subscribers, which would have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Moreover, the property and business interruption insurance we carry may not have adequate coverage to compensate us fully for losses that may occur.. If we are unable to achieve or maintain a high level of subscriber satisfaction, demand for our solutions could suffer.. We believe that our future revenue growth depends on our ability to provide subscribers with quality service that meets our stated commitments, meets or exceeds our subscribers' evolving needs and expectations and is conducive to our ability to continue to sell new solutions to existing subscribers. We are not always able to provide our subscribers with this level of service, and our subscribers occasionally encounter interruptions in service and other technical challenges, including as a result of outages, errors or bugs in our software or third-party software, human error, or migrations of subscribers as part of internal platform consolidation efforts.  If we are unable to achieve or maintain a high level of subscriber satisfaction, we could experience higher subscriber churn, lower than expected renewal rates, disputes and litigation, or negative publicity, any of which could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. In addition, we may from time to time fail to meet the needs of specific subscribers in order to best meet the service expectations of our overall subscriber base. For example, we may suspend a subscriber's website when it breaches our terms of service, harms other subscribers' websites or disrupts servers supporting those websites, such as when a cybercriminal installs malware on a subscriber's website without that subscriber's authorization or knowledge. Although such service interruptions are not uncommon in a cloud-based or online environment, we risk subscriber dissatisfaction by interrupting one subscriber's service to prevent further attacks on or data breaches for other subscribers, and this could damage our reputation and have an adverse effect on our business.. Security and privacy incidents or fraud may harm our business.. We collect, handle, store and transmit large amounts of sensitive, confidential, personal and proprietary information, including payment card information. Unauthorized access to, use of, or loss of  this type of information may cause damage to our platforms, service interruptions to our subscribers, harm our reputation and result in increased security costs, litigation, regulatory investigations or other liabilities. These type of incidents can result from numerous sources, including: physical or electronic security breaches; viruses, ransomware or other malware; hardware vulnerabilities such as Meltdown and Spectre; accident or human error by our own personnel or those of our partners; criminal activity or malfeasance (including by our own personnel); fraud or impersonation scams perpetrated against us; or security events impacting our third-party service providers. We have experienced security events such as these in the past and expect they will continue in the future. To date, we do not believe that any of these events has had a material effect on us, but we may experience larger and more serious incidents in the future.. In addition, many states and countries in which we have subscribers have enacted regulations requiring us to notify subscribers in the event that certain subscriber information is accessed or acquired, or believed to have been accessed or acquired, without authorization, and in some cases also develop proscriptive policies to protect against such unauthorized access or acquisition. Such notifications can result in private causes of action being filed against us, or government investigations into the adequacy of security controls or handling of any security event. Should we experience a loss of protected data, efforts to respond to the incident and enhance our controls, as well as potential penalties imposed by regulators, could increase our costs.. Organizations generally, and Internet-based organizations in particular, remain vulnerable to targeted attacks aimed at exploiting network and system applications or weaknesses. Techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to, or to sabotage, networks and systems often are not recognized until launched against a target. Cyber criminals are increasingly using powerful new tactics including evasive applications, proxies, tunneling, encryption techniques, vulnerability exploits, buffer overflows,. 10. Table of Contents. distributed denial of service attacks, or DDoS attacks, botnets and port scans. For example, we are frequently the targets of DDoS attacks in which attackers attempt to block access to our websites or our subscribers' websites, as well as attempts to place illegal or abusive content on our or our subscribers' websites. If we are unable to avert a DDoS or other attack for any significant period, we could sustain substantial revenue loss from lost sales and subscriber dissatisfaction. We may not have the resources or technical sophistication to anticipate or prevent rapidly evolving types of cyber-attacks. Moreover, we may not be able to immediately detect that such an attack has been launched, if, for example, unauthorized access to our systems was obtained without our knowledge in preparation for an attack contemplated to commence in the future. Cyber-attacks may target us, our subscribers, our partners, banks, credit card processors, delivery services, e-commerce in general or the communication infrastructure on which we depend. We also rely on third parties to provide physical security for most of our data centers and other facilities. Any physical security breach to our data centers or other facilities could result in unauthorized access or damage to our systems.. Our employees, including our employee and contract support agents are often targeted by, and may be vulnerable to, e-mail scams, phishing, social media or similar attacks, as well as social engineering tactics used to perpetrate fraud. We have experienced and may in the future experience security attacks that cause our support agents to divulge confidential information about us or our subscribers, or to introduce viruses, worms or other malicious software programs onto their computers, allowing the perpetrators to, among other things, gain access to our systems or our subscribers' accounts. Our subscribers have in the past, and may in the future, use weak passwords, accidentally disclose their passwords or store them on a mobile device that is lost or stolen, or otherwise compromise the security of their data, creating the perception that our systems are not secure against third-party access when their accounts are compromised and used maliciously by third parties. In addition, if third parties with which we work, such as vendors, partners or developers, violate applicable laws or our policies or disclose our confidential information due to human error or technical issues, such violations or incidents may also put our information and our subscribers' information at risk and could in turn have an adverse effect on our business and reputation.. If an actual or perceived security breach occurs, the market's perception of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose sales and current and potential subscribers. We might also be required to expend significant capital and resources to investigate, protect against or address these problems. Any significant violations of data security could result in the loss of business, litigation and regulatory investigations and penalties that could damage our reputation and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Furthermore, if a high profile security breach occurs with respect to another provider of cloud-based technologies or online marketing tools, our subscribers and potential subscribers may lose trust in the security of these business models generally, which could harm our ability to retain existing subscribers or attract new ones. We cannot guarantee that our backup systems, regular data backups, security protocols, network protection mechanisms and other procedures currently in place, or that may be in place in the future, will be adequate to prevent network and service interruption, system failure, damage to one or more of our systems or data loss in the event of a security breach or attack on our network.. If we do not maintain a low rate of credit card chargebacks, protect against breach of the credit card information we store and comply with payment card industry standards, we will face the prospect of financial penalties and could lose our ability to accept credit card payments from subscribers, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. A majority of our revenue is processed through credit card transactions. Under current credit card industry practices, we are liable for fraudulent and disputed credit card transactions because we do not obtain the cardholder's signature at the time of the transaction, even though the financial institution issuing the credit card may have authorized the transaction. Although we focus on keeping our rate of credit card refunds and chargebacks low, if our refunds or chargebacks increase, our credit card processors could require us to maintain or increase reserves, terminate their contracts with us or decline to serve as credit card processors for new joint ventures or brands, which would have an adverse effect on our financial condition.. We could also incur significant fines or lose our ability to process payments using credit cards if we fail to follow payment card industry data security standards, or PCI DSS, even if there is no compromise of subscriber information. During the course of compliance reviews during 2016, we discovered control gaps in our current adherence to the PCI DSS 3.2 standard. We are engaged with the appropriate financial partners, and are currently working on agreed-upon remediation plans to achieve compliance in timeframes acceptable to them. The fines that we have incurred to date as part of this process have been insignificant, but if we are unable to complete the remediation process within the timeframes we have agreed upon with these parties, we may incur additional financial penalties, our payment networks may increase the processing fees they charge to us, or we may lose our ability to process credit cards, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. In addition, we may have difficulty negotiating competitive rates with payment networks for as long as the control gaps remain.. Our failure to limit fraudulent transactions conducted on our websites (such as through the use of stolen credit card numbers) below levels consistent with credit card association guidelines has sometimes resulted, and may in the future result, in third-party audit requirements and additional expense to change our processes to reduce fraud. It could also subject us to. 11. Table of Contents. liability or require us to increase reserves with our credit card processors. Under credit card association rules, penalties may be imposed at the discretion of the association. Any such potential penalties would be imposed on our credit card processors by the credit card association. Under our contracts with our credit card processors, we are required to reimburse the credit card processors for such penalties. Although we believe that our current level of fraud monitoring is adequate, we face the risk that we may fail to maintain an adequate level of fraud monitoring in the future, or that one or more credit card associations may, at any time, assess penalties against us or terminate our ability to accept credit card payments from subscribers, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. In addition, we could be liable if there is a breach of the credit card or other payment information we store. Online commerce and communications depend on the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. We rely on encryption and authentication technology that we have developed internally, as well as technology that we license from third parties, to provide security and authentication for the transmission of confidential information, including subscriber credit card numbers. However, we cannot ensure that this technology can prevent breaches of the systems that we use to protect subscriber credit card data. Although we maintain network security insurance, we cannot be certain that our coverage will cover, in whole or in part, liabilities actually incurred or that insurance will continue to be available to us on reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, some of our third-party partners also collect information from transactions with our customers, and we may be subject to litigation or our reputation may be harmed if our partners fail to protect our subscribers' information or if they use it in a manner that is inconsistent with our practices.. Data breaches can also occur as a result of non-technical issues. Under our contracts with our card processors, if there is unauthorized access to, or disclosure of, credit card information that we store, we could be liable to the credit card issuing banks for their cost of issuing new cards and related expenses.. Our quarterly and annual operating results may be adversely affected due to a variety of factors, which could make our future results difficult to predict and could cause our operating results to fall below investor or analyst expectations.. Our quarterly and annual operating results and key metrics have varied from period to period in the past, and we expect they may continue to fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control, including:. • our ability to cost-effectively attract, retain, and increase sales to subscribers;. • the impact of competition;. • the timing and success of introductions of new products or product enhancements;. • the amount and timing of our marketing expenditures;. • the amount and timing of capital expenditures or extraordinary expenses, such as litigation, regulatory or other dispute-related settlement payments (including, for example, any potential settlements of the pending legal proceedings described in Item 3 - Legal Proceedings);. • the mix of products we sell;. • higher than expected refunds to our subscribers;. • systems, data center and Internet failures, breaches and service interruptions;. • negative publicity about us or our brands;. • loss of key employees or difficulties recruiting new employees;. • the impact of changes in legislation or regulations, or to interpretations of existing legislation and regulations;. • litigation or governmental enforcement actions against us due to actual or alleged failures to comply with applicable laws or regulations;. • failures to comply with industry standards such as the payment card industry data security standards;. • interest rate fluctuations;. • terminations of, disputes with, or material changes to our relationships with third-party partners; and. • costs, integration problems, or other liabilities associated with past or future acquisitions, strategic investments or joint ventures.. In the past, we have from time to time reported financial results that were below our expectations and the expectations of equity research analysts and investors, and it is possible that this could occur again in one or more future periods, due to any of the factors listed above, a combination of those factors or other reasons. In that event, our stock price could decline substantially.. Our business depends on establishing and maintaining strong brands. If we are not able to effectively promote our brands, or if the reputation of our brands is damaged, our ability to expand our subscriber base will be impaired and our business and operating results will be harmed.. We market our solutions through various brands, including Bluehost, HostGator, iPage, Domain.com, BigRock, ResellerClub, Constant Contact and SinglePlatform, among others.. 12. Table of Contents. We believe that establishing and maintaining our brands is critical to our efforts to expand our subscriber base. If we do not build awareness of our key brands, we could be at a competitive disadvantage to companies whose brands are, or become, more recognizable than ours. For instance, we believe that our business has been, and may continue to be, affected by the increasing tendency of consumers to search for web presence and marketing solutions using brand related search terms as opposed to unbranded search terms such as hosting, website builders or email marketing. We believe this trend has benefited competitors who have invested more heavily in, and used a broader array of marketing channels in, building consumer awareness of their brand than we have. To attract and retain subscribers and to promote and maintain our brands in response to competitive pressures, we may have to substantially increase our financial commitment to creating and maintaining distinct brand loyalty among subscribers, particularly since a number of our competitors have invested heavily in their brands in the past and may be able to devote more resources than we can to brand awareness going forward.. If subscribers, as well as our third-party referral marketing, distribution and reseller partners, do not perceive our existing solutions to be reliable and of high quality, if we introduce new services or enter into new business ventures that are not favorably received by such parties, or if our brands become associated with any fraudulent or deceptive conduct on the part of our subscribers, the value of our brands could be diminished, thereby decreasing the attractiveness of our solutions to such parties. As a result, our operating results may be adversely affected by decreased brand recognition and harm to our reputation.. The rate of growth of the SMB market for our solutions could be significantly lower than our estimates. The success of our products depends on the expansion and reliability of the Internet infrastructure and the continued growth and acceptance of email as a communications tool. If demand for our products and services does not meet expectations, our ability to generate revenue and meet our financial targets could be adversely affected.. The rate of growth of the SMB market may not meet our expectations, which would adversely affect our business. Our expectations for future revenue trends are based in part on assumptions reflecting our industry knowledge and experience serving SMBs, as well as our assumptions regarding demographic shifts, growth in the Internet infrastructure internationally and macroeconomic conditions. However, SMB spending patterns are difficult to predict and are sensitive to the general economic climate, the economic outlook specific to SMBs and overall consumer confidence, which makes it difficult to forecast market trends accurately. If any of our assumptions regarding the SMB market proves to be inaccurate, our revenue could be significantly lower than expected.. Our ability to compete depends on our ability to offer products and services that enable our subscribers to establish, manage and grow their businesses. Our web presence and commerce offerings are predicated on the assumption that an online presence will continue to be an important factor in our subscribers' abilities to establish, expand, manage and monetize their businesses affordably. If we are incorrect in this assumption, for example due to the introduction of a new technology or industry standard (or evolution of existing technology such as social media or mobile messaging and \"conversational commerce\" applications such as WeChat) that supersedes the importance of an online presence or renders our existing or future solutions obsolete, then our ability to retain existing subscribers and attract new subscribers could be adversely affected, which could harm our ability to generate revenue and meet our financial targets.. The future success of our email marketing solution depends on the continued and widespread adoption of email as a primary means of communication. Security problems such as \"viruses,\" \"worms,\" and other malicious programs, reliability issues arising from outages and damage to the Internet infrastructure, or publicity about leaked emails of high-profile users could create the perception that email is not a safe and reliable means of communication. Use of email by businesses and consumers also depends on the ability of email providers to prevent unsolicited bulk email, or \"spam,\" from overwhelming consumers' inboxes. If security problems become widespread or frequent or if email providers cannot effectively control spam, the use of email as a means of communication may decline as consumers find alternative ways to communicate. We could also be harmed if, in an attempt to limit unsolicited email, email providers restrict or limit emails sent by our customers using our email marketing solution. In addition, if alternative communications tools, such as social media, text messaging or services like WeChat, gain widespread acceptance, the need for email may decrease. Any of these events could materially increase our expenses or reduce demand for our email marketing solution and harm our business.. In addition, our business depends on the ability of our customers to access the Internet. The adoption of any laws or regulations adversely affecting the growth, popularity, accessibility or use of the Internet, including laws impacting Internet neutrality, could decrease the demand for our products, require us to make modifications to our products, or increase our operating costs. In December 2017, the Federal Communications Commission repealed rules adopted in 2015 that generally prohibited Internet service providers from charging some Internet content providers higher rates than others for the delivery of their content. With the repeal of these rules, Internet service providers could impose higher fees or deliver our content with less speed, reliability or otherwise on a non-neutral basis as compared to other market participants, which could adversely impact our business.. Our success depends in part on our strategic relationships and partnerships or other alliances with third parties.. 13. Table of Contents. We rely on third-party relationships and alliances, such as with referrers and promoters of our brands and solutions, as well as with our providers of solutions and services that we offer to subscribers. If any of the third parties on which we rely fails to perform as expected, breaches or terminates their agreement with us, or becomes engaged in a dispute with us, our reputation could be adversely affected and our business could be harmed.. We rely on third-party referral partners and other marketing partners to acquire subscribers. If these partners fail to promote our brands or to refer new subscribers to us, begin promoting competing brands in addition to or instead of ours, fail to comply with regulations, are forced to change their marketing practices in response to new or existing regulations or cease to be viewed as credible sources of information by our potential subscribers, we may face decreased demand for our solutions, higher than expected subscriber acquisition costs, and loss of revenue. For instance, in the past, we were impacted when an important referral source began featuring competing web hosting brands on their website, rather than just our brand. It is possible that in the future, this referral source or another, similar referral source will continue to add competing web hosting options or even remove us as an option, which could have a negative impact on us.. Our ability to offer domain name services to our subscribers depends on certain third-party relationships. For example, certain of our subsidiaries are accredited by ICANN and various domain name registries as a domain name registrar. If we fail to comply with domain name registry requirements or if domain name registry requirements change, we could lose our accreditation, be required to increase our expenditures, comply with additional requirements or alter our service offerings, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We also have relationships with product partners whose solutions, including shopping carts and security tools, we offer to our subscribers. Particularly in our email marketing segment, we rely on some of our partners to create integrations with third-party applications and platforms used by our subscribers. We may be unable to continue our relationship with any of these partners if, for example, they decline to continue to work with us or are acquired by third parties. In such an event, we may not be able to continue to offer these third-party tools to our subscribers or we may be forced to find an alternative that may be inferior to the solution that we had previously offered, which could harm our business and our operating results.. We also rely on software licensed from or hosted by third parties to offer our solutions to our subscribers. In addition, we may need to obtain future licenses from third parties to use intellectual property associated with the development of our solutions, which might not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. Any loss of the right to use any software or other intellectual property required for the development and maintenance of our solutions could result in delays in the provision of our solutions until equivalent technology is either developed by us, or, if available, is identified, obtained and integrated, which could harm our business and operating results.. The international nature of our business exposes us to business risks that could limit the effectiveness of our growth strategy and cause our operating results to suffer.. We currently maintain offices and workforces, and conduct operations, primarily in the United States, Brazil, India and the Netherlands and have third-party support arrangements in India, China and the Philippines. We also have localized versions of our Bluehost and HostGator sites targeted to customers in several other countries.  Conducting operations in international markets or establishing international locations subjects us to challenges that we have not generally faced in the United States, including:. • adapting our solutions and marketing practices to international markets, including translation into foreign languages;. • compliance with foreign laws, including more stringent laws in foreign jurisdictions relating to consumer privacy and protection of data collected from individuals and other third parties;. • difficulties in collecting payments from subscribers or in automatically renewing their contracts with us, especially due to the more limited availability and popularity of credit cards in certain countries;. • greater difficulty in enforcing contracts, including our terms of service and other agreements;. • management, communication, compliance and integration problems resulting from cultural or language differences and geographic dispersion;. • sufficiency of qualified labor pools and greater influence of organized labor in various international markets;. • compliance by our employees, business partners and other agents with anti-bribery laws, economic sanction laws and regulations, export controls, and other U.S., foreign and local laws and regulations regarding international and multi-national business operations;. • potentially adverse tax consequences, including the complexities of foreign value added tax (or sales, service, use or other tax) systems, and our inadvertent failure to comply with all relevant foreign tax rules and regulations due to our lack of familiarity with the jurisdiction's tax laws;. • restrictions and withholdings on the repatriation of earnings;. • foreign currency exchange risk;. • uncertain political, regulatory and economic climates in some countries, which could result in unpredictable or frequent changes in applicable regulations or in the general business environment that could negatively impact us; and. 14. Table of Contents. • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries.. These factors have caused our international costs of doing business to exceed our comparable domestic costs. A negative impact from our international business efforts could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition as a whole.. In addition, our ability to expand internationally and attract and retain non-U.S. subscribers may be adversely affected by concerns about the extent to which U.S. governmental and law enforcement agencies may obtain data under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act and Patriot Act and similar laws and regulations, and by privacy laws in other jurisdictions (such as the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation) that are generally more protective of subscriber data than U.S. law. Non-U.S. subscribers may decide that the privacy risks of storing data with a U.S.-based company outweigh the benefits and opt to seek solutions from a company based outside of the United States. In addition, certain foreign governments require local storage of their citizens' data. If we become subject to such requirements, it may require us to increase the number of non-U.S. data centers or servers we maintain, increase our costs or adversely affect our ability to attract, retain or cost-effectively serve non-U.S. subscribers.. Acquisitions, joint ventures and other strategic investments may not achieve the intended benefits or may disrupt our current plans and operations.. Acquisitions have historically been an important component of our growth strategy. In February 2016, we acquired Constant Contact, and in the past we have acquired the businesses and assets of numerous other companies. We have also made strategic investments in and entered into joint ventures with third parties, typically with small companies focused on developing or marketing products that may complement our own. We may complete transactions of this type in the future. These transactions involve numerous risks, including the following:. • difficulties or delays in integrating the acquired businesses, which could prevent us from realizing the anticipated benefits of acquisitions;. • reliance on third parties for transition services prior to subscriber migration;. • difficulties in supporting and migrating acquired subscribers, if any, to our platforms, which could cause subscriber churn, unanticipated costs and damage to our reputation;. • disruption of our ongoing business and diversion of management and other resources from existing operations;. • the incurrence of additional debt or the issuance of equity securities, resulting in dilution to existing stockholders, in order to fund an acquisition;. • assumption of debt or other actual or contingent liabilities of the acquired company, including litigation risk;. • differences in corporate culture, compliance protocols, and risk management practices between us and acquired companies;. • potential loss of an acquired business' key employees;. • potential loss of the subscribers or partners of an acquired business due to the actual or perceived impact of the acquisition;. • difficulties associated with governance, management and control matters in majority or minority investments or joint ventures;. • unforeseen or undisclosed liabilities or challenges associated with the companies, businesses or technologies we acquire;. • adverse tax consequences, including exposure of our entire business to taxation in additional jurisdictions; and. • accounting effects, including potential impairment charges and requirements that we record deferred revenue at fair value.. Any of these risks could result in our acquisitions disrupting our business and/or failing to achieve their intended objectives.. We have a history of losses and may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability.. We have had a net loss in each year since inception. We had a net loss attributable to Endurance International Group Holdings, Inc. of $25.8 million for fiscal year 2015, $72.8 million for fiscal year 2016 and $107.3 million for fiscal year 2017, and we may incur losses in the future. In connection with our acquisitions, we have recorded long-lived assets at fair value. We record amortization expense in each reporting period related to the long-lived assets, which impacts the amount of net loss or income we record in each reporting period.. We have made and expect to continue to make significant expenditures to maintain, develop and expand our business. Our revenue and subscriber growth may be insufficient to achieve or maintain profitability in light of our expenditure levels. As further discussed in \"Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\", our total subscriber base decreased during the year ended December 31, 2017, and revenue in our web presence and domain segments declined year over year. If we are not successful in addressing the factors that have contributed to these. 15. Table of Contents. developments, we may not be able to either increase subscriber and revenue growth or maintain current subscriber and revenue levels, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. We may incur significant losses in the future for these or a number of other reasons, including interest expense related to our substantial indebtedness and the other risks described in this report.. We may need additional equity, debt or other financing in the future, which we may not be able to obtain on acceptable terms, or at all, and any additional financing may result in restrictions on our operations or substantial dilution to our stockholders.. We may need to raise funds in the future, for example, to develop new technologies, expand our business, respond to competitive pressures, acquire businesses, or respond to unanticipated situations. Our ability to obtain debt or equity funding will depend on a number of factors, including market conditions, interest rates, our operating performance and investor interest. In addition, incurring additional debt may not be permitted under our credit agreement or indenture governing our 10.875% senior notes due 2024 (which we refer to as the \"Notes\"), or may require lender or noteholder consent. As such, additional funding may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all.. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to reduce expenditures, including curtailing our growth strategies, foregoing acquisitions or reducing our product development efforts. If we succeed in raising additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible securities, then the issuance could result in substantial dilution to existing stockholders. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of debt securities or preferred stock, these new securities would have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of the holders of our common stock. In addition, any preferred equity issuance or debt financing that we may obtain in the future could have restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. To the extent any such new indebtedness is secured and is at higher interest rates than on our existing first lien term loan facility, the interest rates on our existing first lien term loan facility could increase as a result of the \"most-favored nation\" pricing provision in our existing credit agreement. Further, to the extent that we incur additional indebtedness or such other obligations, the risks associated with our substantial leverage described elsewhere in this report, including our possible inability to service our debt, would increase.. We rely on data centers to deliver our services. If we are unable to renew our data center agreements on favorable terms, or at all, our business could be adversely affected. In addition, our ownership of our largest data center subjects us to potential costs and risks associated with real property ownership.. We currently serve most of our subscribers from six data center facilities located in Massachusetts (three), Texas (two), and Utah (one). We own the Utah data center and occupy the remaining data centers pursuant to co-location service agreements with third-party data center facilities which have built and maintain the co-located data centers for us and other parties. Although we own the servers in these data centers and engineer and architect the systems upon which our platforms run, we do not control the operation of the facilities we do not own.. The terms of our existing co-located data center agreements vary in length and expire on various dates through 2021. The owners of these or our other co-located data centers have no obligation to continue such arrangements beyond their current terms, nor are they obligated to renew their agreements with us on terms acceptable to us, or at all. These agreements may not provide us with adequate time to transfer operations to a new facility in the event of early termination. If we were required to move our equipment to a new facility without adequate time to plan and prepare for such migration, we would face significant challenges due to the technical complexity, risk and high costs of the relocation. Any such migration could result in downtime or other disruptions to our services, which could damage our reputation, cause subscriber losses and harm our operating results and financial condition.. If we are able to renew the agreements on our existing co-located data center facilities, the lease rates may be higher than those we pay under our existing agreements. In addition, the complexities and risks of data center migrations, even when we have adequate time to plan for them, can sometimes make it impractical to leave our current data center facilities, even when we may be able to obtain economic or other terms with a new data center provider that would be better for us over the long term. If we fail to increase our revenue by amounts sufficient to offset any increases in lease rates for our existing data center facilities, or cannot take advantage of potentially better terms with new data center providers because of migration challenges, our operating results may be materially and adversely affected.. With respect to the data center facility that we own, we are subject to risks, and may incur significant costs, related to our ownership of the facility and the land on which it is located, including costs or risks related to building repairs or upgrades and compliance with various federal, state and local laws applicable to real property owners, including environmental laws.. If our solutions and software contain serious errors or defects, or if human error on our part results in damage to our subscribers' businesses, then we may lose revenue and market acceptance and may incur costs to defend or settle claims.. 16. Table of Contents. Complex technology platforms, software applications and systems such as ours often contain errors or defects, such as errors in computer code or other systems errors, particularly when first introduced or when new versions, enhancements or updates are released. Because we also rely on third parties to develop many of our solutions, our products and services may contain additional errors or defects as a result of the integration of the third party's product. Despite quality assurance measures, internal testing and beta testing by our subscribers, we cannot guarantee that our current and future solutions will not be free of serious defects, which could result in lost revenue or a delay in market acceptance.. Since our subscribers use our solutions to, among other things, maintain an online presence for their business, it is not uncommon for subscribers to allege that errors, defects, or other performance problems result in damage to their businesses. They could elect to cancel or not to renew their agreements, delay or withhold payments to us, or bring claims or file suit seeking significant compensation from us for the losses they or their businesses allege to have suffered. For instance, from time to time, our customer support personnel have inadvertently deleted subscriber data due to human error, technical problems or miscommunication with customers. These lost data cases have sometimes led to subscribers commencing litigation against us, settlement payments to subscribers, subscription cancellations, and negative social media attention. Although our subscriber agreements typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to specified claims, including data loss claims, existing or future laws or unfavorable judicial decisions could negate or diminish these limitations. Even if not successful, defending against claims brought against us can be time-consuming and costly and could seriously damage our reputation in the marketplace, making it harder for us to acquire and retain subscribers.. Because we are required to recognize revenue for our subscription-based services over the term of the applicable subscriber agreement, changes in our sales may not be immediately reflected in our operating results. In addition, we may not have adequate reserves in the event that our historical levels of refunds increase, which could adversely affect our liquidity and profitability.. We recognize revenue from our subscribers ratably over the respective terms of their agreements with us in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. These contracts are generally for service periods of up to 36 months. Accordingly, increases in sales during a particular period do not translate into corresponding increases in revenue during that same period, and a substantial portion of the revenue that we recognize during a quarter is derived from deferred revenue from our agreements with subscribers that we entered into during previous quarters.. As a result, we may not generate net earnings despite substantial sales activity during a particular period, since we are not allowed under applicable accounting rules to recognize all of the revenue from these sales immediately, and because we are required to record a significant portion of our related operating expenses during that period. Conversely, the existence of substantial deferred revenue may prevent deteriorating sales activity from becoming immediately apparent in our reported operating results.. In connection with our domain registration services, as a registrar, we are required under our agreements with domain registries to prepay the domain registry for the term for which a domain is registered. We recognize this prepayment as an asset on our consolidated balance sheet and record domain revenue and the domain registration expense ratably over the term that a domain is registered. This cash payment to the domain registry may lead to fluctuations in our liquidity that is not immediately reflected in our operating results.. In addition, our standard terms of service permit our subscribers to seek refunds from us in certain instances, and we maintain reserves to provide such refunds. The amount of such reserves is based on the amount of refunds that we have provided in the past. If our actual level of refund claims exceeds our estimates and our refund reserves are not adequate to cover such claims, our liquidity or profitability could be adversely affected. Furthermore, if we experience an unexpected decline in our revenue, we may not be able to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for such shortfall, and any significant shortfall in revenue relative to planned expenditures could adversely affect our business and operating results.. We are subject to laws and regulations related to privacy, data protection and information security. Our actual or perceived failure to comply with such obligations could harm our business, and changes in such regulations or laws could require us to modify our products or our marketing, market research and advertising practices.. We collect personally identifiable information and other data from our subscribers and prospective subscribers. We use this information to provide services to our subscribers, to support, expand and improve our business and, subject to each subscriber's or prospective subscriber's right to decline or opt out, we may use this information to market other products and services to them. We may also share subscribers' personally identifiable information with certain third parties as authorized by the subscriber or as described in the applicable privacy policy.. The U.S. federal and various state and foreign governments have adopted or proposed guidelines or rules for the collection, distribution, use and storage of information collected from or about consumers or their devices. The U.S. Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, and various U.S. state and local governments and agencies regularly use their authority under laws prohibiting unfair or deceptive marketing and trade practices to investigate and penalize companies for practices related to the. 17. Table of Contents. collection, use, handling, disclosure, dissemination and security of personal data of U.S. consumers. Several foreign countries and governmental bodies, including the countries of the European Union, or EU, and Canada, have laws and regulations dealing with the collection and use of personal data obtained from their residents, which are often more restrictive than those in the United States. Laws and regulations in these jurisdictions apply broadly to the collection, use, storage, disclosure and security of personal information that identifies or may be used to identify an individual, such as names, contact information, and, in some jurisdictions, certain unique identifiers. These laws and regulations are subject to frequent revisions and differing interpretations, and have generally become more stringent over time.. From May 25, 2018, the EU-wide General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR, will take effect, replacing the data protection laws of each EU member state. The GDPR will implement more stringent operational requirements for processors and controllers of personal data, including, for example, expanded disclosures about how personal information is to be used, increased requirements to erase an individual's information upon request and comply with other requests from individuals, mandatory data breach notification requirements, restrictions on automated decision-making and profiling, and higher standards for data controllers to demonstrate that they have obtained valid consent for certain data processing activities. The GDPR also significantly increases penalties for non-compliance, including where we act as a service provider (e.g., controller or processor). In addition, we face uncertainty about how the requirements of the GDPR will coexist with our obligations as a registrar accredited by ICANN, since certain GDPR requirements may conflict with those of ICANN. If our privacy or data security measures fail to comply with applicable current or future laws and regulations, including if we fail to fully notify subscribers and prospective subscribers of our data processing activities, we may be subject to litigation, regulatory investigations, or enforcement actions (including enforcement notices requiring us to change the way we use personal data or our marketing practices, fines, or other liabilities), as well as negative publicity and a potential loss of business. Under the GDPR, fines of up to 20,000,000 Euros or up to 4% of the total worldwide annual turnover of the preceding financial year, whichever is higher, may be imposed.. Future data privacy laws or regulations, or modifications to existing laws or regulations, could impair our ability to collect, transfer and/or use subscriber information that we use to provide targeted advertising to our subscribers, thereby impairing our ability to maintain and grow our subscriber base and increase revenue. Future restrictions on the collection, use, transfer, sharing or disclosure of our subscribers' data or additional requirements for obtaining the consent of subscribers for the use and disclosure of such information could require us to modify our solutions and features, possibly in a material manner, and could limit our ability to develop new services and features. For example, regulation of cookies, web beacons and similar technology for online behavioral advertising may lead to broader restrictions on our activities, including our collection and use online usage information in order to attract and retain customers. Such regulation may also increase the potential for civil liability under consumer protection laws. In addition, providers of major browsers have and may continue to include features that allow users to limit the collection of certain data about their Internet usage, which could also inhibit our ability to track and analyze user data.. We rely on third parties to carry out a number of services for us, including processing personal data on our behalf, and while we enter into contractual arrangements to help ensure that they only process such data according to our instructions and have sufficient security measures in place, any security breach or non-compliance with our contractual terms or breach of applicable law by such third parties could result in governmental enforcement actions, litigation, fines and penalties or adverse publicity and could cause our subscribers to lose trust in us, which could have an adverse impact on our reputation and business. In particular, under certain circumstances, we may be considered liable for non-compliance of our third-party partners with the GDPR or other privacy laws and regulations.. In addition, we collect personally identifiable data from our employees as part of our standard human resources procedures.  This type of information is also subject to various laws and regulations in the jurisdictions where we operate, and it is possible that we or our third party contractors may not comply with applicable requirements, which could result in liability for us.. New laws, regulations or standards or new interpretations of existing laws, regulations or standards, including those in the areas of data security, data privacy, consumer protection and regulation of email providers, could require us to incur additional costs and restrict our business operations. Failure by us to comply with applicable requirements may result in governmental enforcement actions, litigation, fines and penalties or adverse publicity, which could have an adverse effect on our reputation and business.. We are subject to consumer protection laws that regulate our marketing practices and prohibit unfair or deceptive acts or practices. Our actual or perceived failure to comply with such obligations could harm our business, and changes in such regulations or laws could require us to modify our products, marketing or advertising efforts.. In connection with the marketing, telemarketing or advertisement of our products and services by us or our affiliates or referral partners, we could be the target of claims relating to false, misleading or deceptive advertising or marketing practices, including under the auspices of the FTC and state consumer protection statutes.  Among other things, our failure to implement. 18. Table of Contents. any required consumer protection or regulatory disclosures on our various brand websites could subject us to adverse regulatory action, litigation or other adverse consequences. We also rely on third parties to provide marketing and advertising of our products and services, and we could be liable for, or face reputational harm as a result of, their marketing practices if, for example, they fail to comply with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements.  In the EU and in other jurisdictions outside of the United States, we could be the target of similar claims under consumer protection laws, regulation of cloud services, e-commerce and distance selling regulation, advertising regulation, unfair competition rules or similar legislation.. The U.S. Controlling the Assault of Non Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act of 2003, or CAN-SPAM Act, establishes certain requirements for commercial email messages and specifies penalties for the transmission of commercial email messages that are intended to deceive the recipient as to source or content. The CAN-SPAM Act, among other things, obligates the sender of commercial emails to provide recipients with the ability to opt out of receiving future emails from the sender. In addition, some states and countries have passed laws regulating commercial email practices that are significantly more punitive and difficult to comply with than the CAN-SPAM Act, such as Canada's Anti-Spam Legislation, or CASL. The ability of our subscribers' customers to opt out of receiving commercial emails may minimize the effectiveness of our products, particularly Constant Contact's email marketing solution. Moreover, non-compliance with the CAN-SPAM Act carries significant financial penalties.. If we are found to have breached any consumer protection, e-commerce and distance selling, anti-spam, advertising, unfair competition laws or other laws or regulations in any country, including any laws regulating cloud services, we may be subject to enforcement actions that require us to change our business practices in a manner which may negatively impact us. This could also result in litigation, fines, penalties and adverse publicity that could cause reputational harm and loss of subscriber trust, which could have an adverse effect on our business.. Failure to adequately protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could substantially harm our business and operating results.. In order to protect our intellectual property, proprietary technologies and processes, we rely upon a combination of trademark, patent and trade secret law, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual restrictions. These afford only limited protection, may not prevent disclosure of confidential information, and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of misappropriation or unauthorized disclosure. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, unauthorized parties, including employees, subscribers and third parties, have made, and in the future may make, unauthorized or infringing use of our products, services, software and other functionality, in whole or in part, or obtain and use information that we consider proprietary.. Policing our proprietary rights and protecting our brands and domain names is difficult and costly and may not always be effective. In addition, we may need to enforce our rights under the laws of countries that do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States and any changes in, or unexpected interpretations of, the intellectual property laws in any country in which we operate may compromise our ability to enforce our intellectual property rights.. Litigation or proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or other governmental authorities and administrative bodies in the United States and abroad may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Such litigation or proceedings could be costly, time-consuming and distracting to our management, result in a diversion of resources, the impairment or loss of portions of our intellectual property, and have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results.. We could incur substantial costs as a result of any claim of infringement of another party's intellectual property rights.. In recent years, there has been significant litigation in the United States and abroad involving patents and other intellectual property rights. Companies providing Internet-based products and services are increasingly bringing and becoming subject to suits alleging infringement of proprietary rights, particularly patent rights. The risk of patent litigation has been amplified by the increase in certain third parties, so-called \"non-practicing entities,\" whose sole business is to assert patent claims and against which our own intellectual property portfolio may provide little deterrent value.. We could incur substantial costs in prosecuting or defending any intellectual property litigation and we have incurred such costs in the past. If we sue to enforce our rights or are sued by a third party that claims that our solutions infringe its rights, the litigation could be expensive and could divert our management's time and attention. Even a threat of litigation could result in substantial expense and time. In addition, some of our agreements with partners and others require us to indemnify those parties for third-party intellectual property infringement claims, which would increase the cost to us resulting from an adverse ruling on any such claim.. Any intellectual property litigation to which we might become a party, or for which we are required to provide indemnification, may require us to do one or more of the following:. • cease selling or using solutions that incorporate the intellectual property that our solutions allegedly infringe;. 19. Table of Contents. • make substantial payments for legal fees, settlement payments or other costs or damages;. • obtain a license or enter into a royalty agreement, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all, to sell or use the relevant technology; or redesign the allegedly infringing solutions to avoid infringement, which could be costly, time-consuming or impossible.. If we are required to make substantial payments or undertake any of the other actions noted above as a result of any intellectual property infringement claims against us, our business or operating results could be harmed.. In addition, many companies are devoting significant resources to obtaining patents that could affect many aspects of our business, and our competitors and others may have significantly larger and more mature patent portfolios than we have. Since we do not have, and are not attempting to develop, a significant patent portfolio, this may prevent us from deterring patent infringement claims as well as limit our ability to develop product enhancements that are similar to patented third-party technology.. Our use of \"open source\" software could adversely affect our ability to sell our services and subject us to possible litigation.. We use open source software, such as MySQL and Apache, in providing a substantial portion of our solutions, and we may incorporate additional open source software in the future. Such open source software is generally licensed by its authors or other third parties under open source licenses. If we fail to comply with these licenses, we may be subject to certain conditions, including requirements that we offer our solutions that incorporate the open source software for no cost; that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon, incorporating or using the open source software; and/or that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of the particular open source license. In addition, if a third-party software provider has incorporated open source software into software that we license from such provider, we could be required to disclose any of our source code that incorporates or is a modification of such licensed software. If an author or other third party that distributes such open source software were to allege that we had not complied with the conditions of one or more of these licenses, we could be required to incur significant legal expenses defending such allegations and could be subject to significant damages, enjoined from the sale of our solutions that contained the open source software, and required to comply with the foregoing conditions, which could disrupt the distribution and sale of some of our solutions. In addition, there have been claims challenging the ownership of open source software against companies that incorporate open source software into their products. As a result, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software. Such litigation could be costly for us to defend, have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition or require us to devote additional research and development resources to change our products.. We could face liability, or our reputation might be harmed, as a result of the activities of our subscribers, the content of their websites, the data they store on our servers or the emails that they send.. Our role as a provider of cloud-based solutions, including website hosting services, domain registration services and email marketing, may subject us to potential liability for the activities of our subscribers on or in connection with their websites or domain names or for the data they store on or send using our servers. Although our subscriber terms of use prohibit illegal use of our services by our subscribers and permit us to take down websites or take other appropriate actions for illegal use, subscribers may nonetheless engage in prohibited activities or upload, transmit or store content with us in violation of applicable law, third-party rights, or the subscriber's own policies, which could subject us to liability.. Several U.S. federal statutes may apply to us with respect to various subscriber activities:. • the Digital Millennium Copyright Act of 1998, or DMCA, provides recourse for owners of copyrighted material who believe that their rights under U.S. copyright law have been infringed on the Internet. Under the DMCA, based on our current business activity as an online service provider that does not monitor, own or control website content posted by our subscribers, we generally are not liable for copyright infringing content posted by our subscribers or other third parties, provided that we follow the procedures for handling copyright infringement claims set forth in the DMCA. Generally, if we receive a proper notice from, or on behalf of, a copyright owner alleging infringement of copyrighted material located on websites we host, and we fail to expeditiously remove or disable access to the allegedly infringing material or otherwise fail to meet the requirements of the safe harbor provided by the DMCA, the copyright owner may seek to impose liability on us.  We have in the past faced, and could in the future face, liability for copyright infringement due to technical mistakes in complying with the detailed DMCA take-down procedures.. • the Communications Decency Act of 1996, or CDA, generally protects interactive computer service providers such as us, from liability for certain online activities of their customers, such as the publication of defamatory or other objectionable content. As an interactive computer services provider, we do not monitor hosted websites or prescreen the content placed by our subscribers on their sites. Accordingly, under the CDA, we are generally not responsible for the subscriber-created content hosted on our servers. However, the CDA does not apply in foreign jurisdictions, and proposed legislation now or in the future may reduce the immunity provided to us by the CDA, which could require us. 20. Table of Contents. to develop or purchase tools that automatically screen for certain types of customer content, which would likely be expensive and time-consuming.  Further, despite the CDA, we may nonetheless be brought into disputes between our subscribers and third parties which would require us to devote management time and resources to resolve such matters. We could also be the target of negative publicity about these types of disputes or about our hosting of websites or facilitating of email messages containing objectionable content (including, for example, alleged terrorist or racist content), particularly since there has recently been increasing pressure on companies providing social media platforms and other technology companies to screen for and remove these types of content. Such publicity could also have an adverse effect on our reputation and therefore our business.. • in addition to the CDA, the Securing the Protection of our Enduring and Established Constitutional Heritage Act, or the SPEECH Act, provides a statutory exception to the enforcement by a U.S. court of a foreign judgment that is less protective of free speech than the United States. Generally, the exception applies if the law applied in the foreign court did not provide at least as much protection for freedom of speech and press as would be provided by the First Amendment of the U.S. Constitution or by the constitution and law of the state in which the U.S. court is located, or if no finding of a violation would be supported under the First Amendment of the U.S. Constitution or under the constitution and law of the state in which the U.S. court is located. Although the SPEECH Act may protect us from the enforcement of foreign judgments in the United States, it does not affect the enforceability of the judgment in the foreign country that issued the judgment. Given our international presence, we may therefore, nonetheless, have to defend against or comply with any foreign judgments made against us, which could take up substantial management time and resources and damage our reputation.. Although these statutes and case law in the United States have generally shielded us from liability for subscriber activities to date, court rulings in pending or future litigation, or future legislative or regulatory actions, may narrow the scope of protection afforded us under these laws. Several court decisions arguably have already narrowed the scope of the immunity provided to interactive computer services in the United States under the CDA. In addition, laws governing these activities are unsettled in many international jurisdictions, or may prove difficult or impossible for us to comply with in some international jurisdictions. Also, notwithstanding the exculpatory language of these bodies of law, we may be embroiled in complaints and lawsuits which, even if ultimately resolved in our favor, add cost to our doing business and may divert management's time and attention. Finally, other existing bodies of law, including the criminal laws of various states, may be deemed to apply or new statutes or regulations may be adopted in the future, any of which could expose us to further liability and increase our costs of doing business.. We could also face liability under the Stored Communications Act, or SCA, which generally regulates voluntary and compelled disclosures of stored wire and electronic communications and transactional records by electronic communication service providers and remote computing service providers, which we believe includes us.  The SCA broadly prevents disclosure of such communications and records with certain exceptions.  We regularly receive requests for customer data in the ordinary course of business from law enforcement, government entities or from civil subpoenas.  While we have processes and procedures for responding to requests for customer data, we have in the past faced, and may in the future face, liability if we produce customer data in violation of the SCA. This could subject us to litigation, payment of damages, or reputational harm and take up management time and increase our costs of doing business.. We may face liability in connection with ownership or control of subscriber accounts, domain names or email contact lists or in connection with domain names we own.. As a provider of cloud-based solutions, including as a registrar of domain names and related services, we may face liability or costs related to ownership or control of subscriber accounts, websites, domain names or email contact lists, or in connection with domain names we own, including the following:. • Liability for our failure to renew a subscriber's domain or for our role in the wrongful transfer of control or ownership of accounts, websites or domain names;. • Liability for other forms of account, website or domain name \"hijacking,\" including misappropriation by third parties of subscriber accounts, websites or domain names;. • Liability for providing the identity and contact details of a domain name registrant who has purchased our domain privacy service, even though our terms of service reserve the right to provide the underlying WHOIS information and/or to cancel privacy services on domain names  in certain circumstances;. • Liability for trademark infringement if one or more domain names in our domain name portfolios that we own and provide for resale is alleged to violate another party's trademark. • Liability for the infringement of third party trademarks or copyrights if advertisements displayed on websites associated with domains registered by us contain allegedly infringing content placed by third parties.. Occasionally a subscriber may register a domain name that is identical or similar to another party's trademark or the name of a living person. Disputes involving registration or control of domain names are often resolved through the Uniform. 21. Table of Contents. Domain Name Dispute Resolution Policy, or UDRP, ICANN's administrative process for domain name dispute resolution, or through litigation under the Anticybersquatting Consumer Protection Act, or ACPA, or under general theories of trademark infringement or dilution. The UDRP generally does not impose liability on registrars, and the ACPA provides that registrars may not be held liable for registering or maintaining a domain name absent a showing of bad faith, intent to profit or reckless disregard of a court order by the registrar. However, we may face liability if we fail to comply in a timely manner with procedural requirements under these rules. In addition, these processes typically require at least limited involvement by us and, therefore, could result in increased costs for us.. We are subject to export controls and economic sanctions laws that could impair our ability to compete in international markets and subject us to liability if we are not in full compliance with applicable laws.. Our business activities are subject to various restrictions under U.S. export controls and trade and economic sanctions laws, including the U.S. Commerce Department's Export Administration Regulations and economic and trade sanctions regulations administered by the U.S. Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control, or OFAC, which prohibit certain transactions with U.S. embargoed or sanctioned countries, governments, persons and entities.. Although we take precautions and have implemented, and continue to seek to enhance, compliance measures to prevent transactions with U.S. sanction targets, from time to time we have identified, and we expect to continue to identify, instances of non-compliance with these laws, rules and regulations and transactions which we are required to block and report to OFAC. In particular, as we enhance the systems we use to screen out prohibited transactions, we may identify additional instances of non-compliance. In addition, as a result of our acquisition activities, we have acquired, and we may acquire in the future, companies for which we could face potential liability or penalties for violations if they have not implemented sufficient compliance measures to prevent transactions with targets of U.S. and other applicable sanctions laws. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, government investigations, and reputational harm. In addition, if our third-party resellers fail to comply with these laws and regulations in their dealings, we could face potential liability or penalties for violations.. Changes in our solutions or changes in export and import regulations may create delays in the introduction and sale of our solutions in international markets, prevent our subscribers with international operations from deploying our solutions or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our solutions to certain countries, governments or persons altogether. Any limitations or prohibitions on, or delays affecting, our ability to export or sell our solutions could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. Due to the global nature of our business, we could be adversely affected by violations of anti-bribery laws.. The global nature of our business requires us (including our employees and business partners or agents acting on our behalf) to comply with laws and regulations that prohibit bribery and corruption anywhere in the world. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, the U.K. Bribery Act 2010, or the Bribery Act, and similar anti-bribery laws in India, Brazil or other jurisdictions where we do business generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials and other persons for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or an improper business advantage. In addition, the FCPA requires public companies to maintain records that accurately and fairly represent their transactions and have an adequate system of internal accounting controls. We currently operate in areas of the world that have a reputation for heightened risks of corruption and, in certain circumstances, compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. In addition, changes in laws could result in increased regulatory requirements and compliance costs which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure that our employees, business partners or other agents will not engage in prohibited conduct and expose us to the risk of liability under the FCPA, the Bribery Act, or other anti-bribery laws. If we are found to be in violation of the FCPA, the Bribery Act or other anti-bribery laws, we could suffer criminal and civil penalties, other sanctions, and reputational damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets would result in a decrease in earnings.. Current accounting rules provide that goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives may not be amortized, but instead must be tested for impairment at least annually. These rules also require that intangible assets with definite useful lives be amortized over their respective estimated useful lives to their estimated residual values, and reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable. Additionally, a reorganization or change in the number of reporting units could result in the reassignment of goodwill between reporting units and may trigger an impairment assessment. We have substantial goodwill and other intangible assets, and we would be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or intangible assets is determined. Any impairment charges or changes to the estimated amortization periods could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We recorded charges for impairment of. 22. Table of Contents. goodwill and other intangible assets during 2016 and 2017, and it is possible we will record additional impairment charges in the future.. Risks Related to Our Substantial Indebtedness. Our substantial level of indebtedness could materially and adversely affect our financial condition.. We now have, and expect to continue to have, significant indebtedness that could result in a material and adverse effect on our business. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $2.0 billion of aggregate indebtedness, net of original issue discounts of $25.8 million and deferred financing costs of $37.7 million. Under our new first lien term loan facility entered into on June 14, 2017, which refinanced our prior first lien term loan facilities, we are required to repay approximately $8.5 million of principal at the end of each quarter and are required to pay accrued interest upon the maturity of each interest accrual period. We estimate that our interest payments on our new first lien term loan facility will be approximately $96.1 million for 2018. The interest accrual periods under our new first lien term loan facility and our revolving credit facility (which we refer to collectively as our \"Senior Credit Facilities\") are typically three months in duration, except for LIBOR-based revolver loans, which are generally one or three months in duration. The actual amounts of our debt servicing payments vary based on the amounts of indebtedness outstanding, whether we borrow on a LIBOR or base rate basis, the applicable interest accrual periods and the applicable interest rates, which vary based on prescribed formulas. We are also required to pay accrued interest on the Notes on a semi-annual basis. We paid approximately $38.1 million of interest on the Notes during the year ended December 31, 2017.. We may be able to incur substantial additional debt in the future. The terms of our Senior Credit Facilities and the indenture governing the Notes permit us to incur additional debt subject to certain conditions. This high level of debt could have important consequences, including:. • making it more difficult for us to make payments on our indebtedness;. • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse financial, business, economic and industry conditions, as well as other factors that are beyond our control;. • requiring us to refinance, or resulting in our inability to refinance, all or a portion of our indebtedness at or before maturity, on favorable terms or at all, whether due to uncertain credit markets, our business performance, or other factors;. • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes;. • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate and placing us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less highly leveraged;. • restricting our ability to pay dividends on our capital stock or redeem, repurchase or retire our capital stock or indebtedness;. • limiting our ability to borrow additional funds;. • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings are, and may in the future be, at variable interest rates;. • requiring us to sell assets or incur additional indebtedness if we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to fund our liquidity needs; and. • making it more difficult for us to fund other liquidity needs.. The occurrence of any one of these events or our failure to generate sufficient cash flow from operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face, as described further herein, could intensify and we may not be able to meet all our debt obligations.. The terms of our Senior Credit Facilities and the indenture governing the Notes impose restrictions on our business, reducing our operational flexibility and creating default risks. Failure to comply with these restrictions, or other events, could result in default under the relevant agreements that could trigger an acceleration of our indebtedness that we may not be able to repay.. Our Senior Credit Facilities and the indenture governing the Notes require compliance with a set of financial and non-financial covenants. These covenants contain numerous restrictions on our ability to, among other things:. • incur additional debt;. • make restricted payments (including any dividends or other distributions in respect of our capital stock and any investments);. 23. Table of Contents. • sell or transfer assets;. • enter into affiliate transactions;. • create liens;. • consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and. • take other actions.. As a result, we may be restricted from engaging in business activities that may otherwise improve our business or from financing future operations or capital needs. We are also required to comply with a financial covenant to maintain a maximum ratio of consolidated senior secured net indebtedness to an adjusted consolidated EBITDA measure. Failure to comply with the covenants, if not cured or waived, could result in an event of default that could trigger acceleration of our indebtedness, which would require us to repay all amounts owing under our Senior Credit Facilities and the Notes and could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our Senior Credit Facilities and the indenture governing the Notes also contain provisions that trigger repayment obligations, including in some cases upon a change of control, as well as various representations and warranties which, if breached, could lead to events of default. We cannot be certain that our future operating results will be sufficient to ensure compliance with the covenants in our Senior Credit Facilities or the indenture governing the Notes or to remedy any defaults under our Senior Credit Facilities or the indenture governing the Notes. In addition, in the event of any event of default and related acceleration, we may not have or be able to obtain sufficient funds to make any accelerated payments.. EIG Investors, the borrower under our Senior Credit Facilities and the Issuer of the Notes, is a holding company, and may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of its indebtedness.. EIG Investors Corp, or EIG Investors, the borrower under our Senior Credit Facilities and the issuer of the Notes, has no direct operations and no significant assets other than the stock of its subsidiaries. Because it conducts its operations through its operating subsidiaries, EIG Investors depends on those entities to generate the funds necessary to meet its financial obligations, including its required obligations under our Senior Credit Facilities and the Notes. The ability of our subsidiaries to make transfers and other distributions to EIG Investors is subject to, among other things, the terms of any debt instruments of those subsidiaries then in effect, applicable law, prevailing economic and competitive conditions and certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. If transfers or other distributions from our subsidiaries to EIG Investors were eliminated, delayed, reduced or otherwise impaired, its ability to make payments on its obligations would be substantially impaired.. Furthermore, if EIG Investors' cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund its debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, seek additional capital, restructure or refinance EIG Investors' or our indebtedness, or sell assets. We may not be able to accomplish any of these alternatives on a timely basis, on satisfactory terms, or at all, which would limit EIG Investors' ability to meet its scheduled debt service obligations (including in respect of our Senior Credit Facilities or the Notes). Our ability to restructure or refinance our indebtedness will depend on the condition of the capital markets and the financial condition of EIG Investors and us at the time. Any refinancing of EIG Investors' debt could be at higher interest rates and may require EIG Investors to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. Our Senior Credit Facilities and the indenture governing the Notes will also restrict our ability to use the proceeds from asset sales. We may not be able to consummate those asset sales to raise capital or sell assets at prices that we believe are fair, and any proceeds that we receive may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. In addition, any failure to make payments of interest and principal on EIG Investors' outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis could result in an event of default that would trigger acceleration of our indebtedness and would likely result in a reduction of EIG Investors' credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness.. EIG Investors may not be able to repurchase the Notes upon a change of control or pursuant to an asset sale offer, which would cause a default under the indenture governing the Notes and our Senior Credit Facilities.. Upon the occurrence of specific kinds of change of control events, EIG Investors will be required under the indenture governing the Notes to offer to repurchase all outstanding Notes at 101% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, unless the Notes have been previously called for redemption. The source of funds for any such purchase of the Notes will be EIG Investors' available cash or cash generated from its subsidiaries' operations or other sources, including borrowings, sales of assets or sales of equity. EIG Investors may not be able to repurchase the Notes upon a change of control because it may not have sufficient financial resources to purchase all of the Notes that are tendered upon a change of control. Further, the terms of our Senior Credit Facilities and any of EIG Investors' future debt agreements may restrict EIG Investors from repurchasing all of the Notes tendered by holders upon a change of control. Accordingly, EIG Investors may not be able to satisfy its obligations to purchase the Notes unless it is able to refinance or obtain waivers under our Senior Credit Facilities. EIG Investors' failure to repurchase the Notes upon a change of control would cause an event of default under the indenture governing the Notes and a cross-default under our Senior Credit Facilities. Our Senior Credit Facilities also provide that a change of control is an event default that permits lenders to accelerate the maturity of borrowings thereunder. Any of EIG Investors' future debt agreements may contain similar provisions.. 24. Table of Contents. In addition, in certain circumstances following a non-ordinary course asset sale as specified in the indenture governing the Notes, EIG Investors may be required to commence an offer to purchase the Notes with the proceeds from the asset sale at a price equal to 100% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. Our Senior Credit Facilities and any of EIG Investors' future debt agreements may contain restrictions that would limit or prohibit EIG Investors from completing any such offer. EIG Investors' failure to purchase any such Notes when required under the indenture would be an event of default and a cross-default under our Senior Credit Facilities.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock. Our stock price has been and may in the future be volatile, which could cause holders of our common stock to incur substantial losses.. The trading price of our common stock has been and may in the future be subject to substantial price volatility. As a result of this volatility, our stockholders could incur substantial losses. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the factors listed below and other factors described in this \"Risk Factors\" section:. • low trading volume, which could cause even a small number of purchases or sales of our stock to have an impact on the trading price of our common stock;. • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time;. • significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of comparable companies;. • actual or anticipated changes in our earnings or any financial projections we may provide to the public, or fluctuations in our operating results;. • changes in expectations for, or evaluations of, our stock by securities analysts, or decisions by securities or industry analysts not to publish or to cease publishing research or reports about us, our business or our market;. • ratings changes by debt ratings agencies;. • short sales, hedging and other derivative transactions involving our capital stock;. • announcements of technological innovations, new products, strategic alliances, or significant agreements by us or by our competitors;. • litigation or regulatory proceedings involving us; and. • recruitment or departure of key personnel.. Securities class action litigation is sometimes brought against companies that experience periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. In May 2015, a class action securities lawsuit was filed against us, and in August 2015, a separate class action securities lawsuit was filed against Constant Contact; both lawsuits remain pending. In the future we may be the target of additional securities litigation related to volatility in our stock, which could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources from our business.. Future sales of shares of our common stock could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well.. A substantial portion of our issued and outstanding common stock can be traded without restriction at any time, and the remaining shares of our issued and outstanding common stock can be sold subject to volume limitations and other requirements applicable to affiliate sales under the federal securities laws. As such, sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could occur at any time. These sales, or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell shares, could reduce the market price of our common stock. In addition, we have registered 38,000,000 shares of common stock that have been issued or reserved for future issuance under our Amended and Restated 2013 Stock Incentive Plan and 14,346,830 shares of common stock that have been issued or reserved for future issuance under our Constant Contact, Inc. Second Amended and Restated 2011 Stock Incentive Plan. Of these shares, as of December 31, 2017, a total of 25,317,176 shares of our common stock are subject to outstanding options, restricted stock units and restricted stock awards, of which 14,661,394 shares are exercisable or have vested. The exercise of these options or the vesting of restricted stock units and shares of restricted stock and the subsequent sale of the common stock underlying such options or upon the vesting of such restricted stock units and restricted stock awards could cause a decline in our stock price. These sales also might make it difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. We cannot predict the size of future issuances or the effect, if any, that any future issuances may have on the market price for our common stock.. In addition, holders of an aggregate of 65,693,919 shares of our common stock have rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering their shares or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. Once we register these shares, they can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to any applicable vesting requirements.. 25. Table of Contents. Insiders have substantial control over us, which could limit your ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including a change of control.. As of December 31, 2017, our directors, executive officers and their affiliates beneficially own, in the aggregate, 49.9% of our issued and outstanding common stock. Specifically, investment funds and entities affiliated with Warburg Pincus own, in the aggregate, 36.6% of our issued and outstanding common stock, and investment funds and entities affiliated with Goldman Sachs own, in the aggregate, approximately 10.7% of our issued and outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, if they act together, could have significant influence over the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval. Our stockholders' agreement contains agreements among the parties with respect to certain matters, including the election of directors, and certain restrictions on our ability to effect specified corporate transactions. If these stockholders were to act together, they could have significant influence over the management and affairs of our company. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company and might affect the market price of our common stock. In particular, the significant ownership interest of investment funds and entities affiliated with Warburg Pincus and Goldman Sachs in our common stock could adversely affect investors' perceptions of our corporate governance practices.. Anti-takeover provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation, our amended and restated bylaws and our stockholders agreement, as well as provisions of Delaware law, might discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock.. Our restated certificate of incorporation, our amended and restated bylaws, our stockholders agreement and Delaware law contain provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares of our common stock. These provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. Our corporate governance documents include provisions:. • authorizing blank check preferred stock, which could be issued without stockholder approval and with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock;. • limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers;. • limiting the ability of our stockholders to call and bring business before special meetings;. • providing that any action required or permitted to be taken by our stockholders must be taken at a duly called annual or special meeting of such stockholders and may not be taken by any consent in writing by such stockholders;. • requiring advance notice of stockholder proposals for business to be conducted at meetings of our stockholders and for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors, subject to limited exceptions set forth in our stockholders agreement;. • controlling the procedures for the conduct and scheduling of board of directors and stockholder meetings;. • providing our board of directors with the express power to postpone previously scheduled annual meetings and to cancel previously scheduled special meetings;. • establishing a classified board of directors so that not all members of our board are elected at one time;. • establishing Delaware as the exclusive jurisdiction for specified types of stockholder litigation involving us or our directors;. • providing that for so long as investment funds and entities affiliated with Warburg Pincus have the right to designate at least three directors for election to our board of directors, certain actions required or permitted to be taken by our stockholders, including amendments to our restated certificate of incorporation or amended and restated bylaws and certain specified corporate transactions, may be effected only with the affirmative vote of 75% of our board of directors, in addition to any other vote required by applicable law;. • providing that for so long as investment funds and entities affiliated with Warburg Pincus have the right to designate at least one director for election to our board of directors and for so long as investment funds and entities affiliated with Goldman Sachs have the right to designate one director for election to our board of directors, in each case, a quorum of our board of directors will not exist without at least one director designee of each of Warburg Pincus and Goldman Sachs present at such meeting, subject to limited exceptions set forth in our stockholders agreement;. • limiting the determination of the number of directors on our board of directors and the filling of vacancies or newly created seats on the board to our board of directors then in office; subject to limited exceptions set forth in our stockholders agreement; and. • providing that directors may be removed by stockholders only for cause by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of the votes that all our stockholders would be entitled to cast in an annual election of directors; provided that any director designated by investment funds and entities affiliated with either Warburg Pincus or Goldman Sachs may be removed with or without cause only by Warburg Pincus or Goldman Sachs, respectively.. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of Delaware law, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prevents some stockholders holding more than 15% of our issued and outstanding common. 26. Table of Contents. stock from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of substantially all of our issued and outstanding common stock. Since the investment funds and entities affiliated with Warburg Pincus and Goldman Sachs became holders of more than 15% of our issued and outstanding common stock in a transaction that was approved by our board of directors, the restrictions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation law would not apply to a business combination transaction with any investment funds or entities affiliated with either Warburg Pincus or Goldman Sachs. In addition, our restated certificate of incorporation expressly exempts investment funds and entities affiliated with either Warburg Pincus or Goldman Sachs from the applicability of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Any provision of our restated certificate of incorporation or amended and restated bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock.. The existence of the foregoing provisions and anti-takeover measures could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. They could also deter potential acquirers of our company, thereby reducing the likelihood that you could receive a premium for your common stock in an acquisition.. Certain of our stockholders have the right to engage or invest in the same or similar businesses as us.. Investment funds and entities affiliated with Warburg Pincus or Goldman Sachs, together, hold a significant interest in our company. Warburg Pincus, Goldman Sachs and their respective affiliates have other investments and business activities in addition to their ownership of our company. Warburg Pincus, Goldman Sachs and their respective affiliates have the right, and have no duty to abstain from exercising the right, to engage or invest in the same or similar businesses as us. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we have, on behalf of ourselves, our subsidiaries and our and their respective stockholders, renounced any interest or expectancy in, or in being offered an opportunity to participate in, any business opportunity that may be presented to Warburg Pincus, Goldman Sachs or any of their respective affiliates, partners, principals, directors, officers, members, managers, employees or other representatives, and no such person has any duty to communicate or offer such business opportunity to us or any of our subsidiaries or shall be liable to us or any of our subsidiaries or any of our or its stockholders for breach of any duty, as a director or officer or otherwise, by reason of the fact that such person pursues or acquires such business opportunity, directs such business opportunity to another person or fails to present such business opportunity, or information regarding such business opportunity, to us or our subsidiaries, unless, in the case of any such person who is a director or officer of ours, such business opportunity is expressly offered to such director or officer in writing solely in his or her capacity as a director or officer of ours.. We may not pay any dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future.. We do not currently anticipate that we will pay any cash dividends to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Instead, we expect to retain any earnings to invest in our business. In addition, our ability to pay cash dividends is currently limited by the terms of our Senior Credit Facilities and the indenture governing the Notes, and any future credit agreement may contain terms prohibiting or limiting the amount of dividends that may be declared or paid on our common stock. Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, to realize any return on their investment."
