[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors.. The following risks and uncertainties could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We may amend or supplement the risk factors described below from time to time in other reports we file with the SEC.. Risks Related to Our Business. We face risks associated with global economic conditions.. Unfavorable global economic conditions, unemployment levels and uncertainty about future economic prospects could reduce consumer demand for our products as a result of a reduction in discretionary spending or a shift of purchasing patterns to lower-cost options such as private label brands sold by retail chains, which could drive the market towards lower margin product and force us to reduce prices for our products in order to compete. Similarly, our retailer customers could reduce their inventories, shift to different products or require us to lower our prices to retain the shelf placement of our products. Declining financial performance by certain of our retailer customers could impact their ability to pay us on a timely basis, or at all. Worsening economic conditions could harm our sales and profitability. Additionally, disruptions in financial markets could reduce our access to debt and equity capital markets, negatively affecting our ability to implement our business plan and strategy.. Competition in our industries may hinder our ability to execute our business strategy, achieve profitability, or maintain relationships with existing customers.. The categories in which we operate are mature and highly competitive, both in the U.S. and globally, as a limited number of large manufacturers compete for consumer acceptance, limited retail shelf space and e-commerce opportunities. Because of the highly competitive environment in which we operate as well as increasing retailer concentration, our retailer customers, including online retailers, frequently seek to obtain pricing concessions or better trade terms, resulting in either reduction of our margins or losses of distribution to lower cost competitors. Competition is based upon brand perceptions, product performance and innovation, customer service and price. Our ability to compete effectively may be affected by a number of factors, including:. • our primary competitor in wet shave and feminine care products, The Procter & Gamble Company, as well as Unilever and our other competitors, may have substantially greater financial, marketing, research and development and other resources and greater market share in certain segments than we do, which could provide them with greater scale and negotiating leverage with retailers and suppliers;. • our competitors may have lower production, sales and distribution costs, and higher profit margins, which may enable them to offer aggressive retail discounts and other promotional incentives;. 12. • our competitors may be able to obtain exclusive distribution rights at particular retailers or favorable in-store placement; and. • we may lose market share to private label brands sold by retail chains, or to price brands sold by local and regional competitors, which, in each case, are typically sold at lower prices than our products.. Loss of any of our principal customers could significantly decrease our sales and profitability.. Wal-Mart, together with its subsidiaries, is our largest customer, accounting for approximately 23% of our net sales from continuing operations in fiscal 2017. Generally, sales to our top customers are made pursuant to purchase orders and we do not have supply agreements or guarantees of minimum purchases from them. As a result, these customers may cancel their purchase orders or reschedule or decrease their level of purchases from us at any time. The loss or a substantial decrease in the volume of purchases by any of our top customers would harm our sales and profitability. Increasing retailer customer concentration could result in reduced sales outlets for our products, as well as greater negotiating pressures and pricing requirements.. Our inability to execute a successful e-commerce strategy could have a significant impact on our business.. Sales of consumer products via e-commerce is a relatively new sales channel that has gained increasing acceptance among end user customers and could result in a change in the retail environment. The Company is engaged in e-commerce sales channels with respect to many of its products; however, if e-commerce and other new sales channels were to take significant market share away from traditional retailers, and if we are not successful in achieving sales growth in these new sales channels, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be negatively impacted. For example, the acquisition of the Dollar Shave Club e-commerce wet shave platform by Unilever provides this competitor certain financial, marketing and research and development resources, which could provide them greater scale and leverage with suppliers and customers. While we are establishing a variety of e-commerce initiatives, there can be no assurances that these initiatives will be successful.. Changes in production costs, including raw material prices, could erode our profit margins and negatively impact operating results.. Pricing and availability of raw materials, energy, shipping and other services needed for our business can be volatile due to general economic conditions, labor costs, production levels, import duties and tariffs and other factors beyond our control. There is no certainty that we will be able to offset future cost increases. This volatility can significantly affect our production cost, and may, therefore, have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Loss of reputation of our leading brands or failure of our marketing plans could have an adverse effect on our business.. We depend on the continuing reputation and success of our brands, particularly the Schick, Wilkinson Sword, Edge, Skintimate, Playtex, Diaper Genie, Wet Ones, Banana Boat, Hawaiian Tropic, Bulldog, Stayfree, Carefree and o.b. brands. Our operating results could be adversely affected if one of our leading brands suffers damage to its reputation due to real or perceived quality issues. Further, the success of our brands can suffer if our marketing plans or new product offerings do not improve, or have a negative impact on, our brands' image or ability to attract and retain consumers. Additionally, if claims made in our marketing campaigns become subject to litigation alleging false advertising, it could damage our brand, cause us to alter our marketing plans in ways that may materially and adversely affect sales, or result in the imposition of significant damages against us. Further, a boycott or other campaign critical of us, through social media or otherwise, could negatively impact our brands' reputation and, consequently, our products' sales.. We are subject to risks related to our international operations, including currency fluctuations, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. Our businesses are conducted on a worldwide basis, with nearly 42% of our sales in fiscal 2017 arising outside the U.S., and a significant portion of our production capacity and cash are located overseas. Consequently, we are subject to a number of risks associated with doing business in foreign countries, including:. • the possibility of expropriation, confiscatory taxation or price controls;. 13. • the inability to repatriate foreign-based cash, which constitutes substantially all of our overall cash, for strategic needs in the U.S., either at all or without incurring significant income tax and earnings consequences, as well as the heightened counterparty, internal control and country-specific risks associated with holding cash overseas;. • the effect of foreign income taxes, value-added taxes and withholding taxes, including the inability to recover amounts owed to us by a government authority without extended proceedings or at all;. • the effect of the U.S. tax treatment of foreign source income and losses, and other restrictions on the flow of capital between countries;. • adverse changes in local investment or exchange control regulations;. • restrictions on and taxation of international imports and exports;. • currency fluctuations, including the impact of hyper-inflationary conditions, particularly where exchange controls limit or eliminate our ability to convert from local currency;. • political or economic instability, government nationalization of business or industries, government corruption, and civil unrest, including political or economic instability;. • legal and regulatory constraints, including tariffs and other trade barriers;. • difficulty in enforcing contractual and intellectual property rights; and. • the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency. A significant portion of our sales are denominated in local currencies but reported in U.S. dollars, and a high percentage of product costs for such sales are denominated in U.S. dollars. Although we may hedge a portion of the exposure, the strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to such currencies can negatively impact our reported sales and operating profits.. One or more of these factors could harm our international operations or investments and our operating results.. We face risks arising from our ongoing efforts to achieve cost savings.. In the normal course of business, we may initiate projects which change our footprint or our operations in order to gain efficiencies and reduce costs. The execution of cost savings initiatives may present a number of significant risks, including:. • actual or perceived disruption of service or reduction in service standards to customers;. • the failure to preserve adequate internal controls as we restructure our general and administrative functions, including our information technology and financial reporting infrastructure;. • the failure to preserve supplier relationships and distribution, sales and other important relationships and to resolve conflicts that may arise;. • loss of sales as we reduce or eliminate staffing on non-core product lines;. • diversion of management attention from ongoing business activities; and. • the failure to maintain employee morale and retain key employees while implementing benefit changes and reductions in the workforce.. Because of these and other factors, we cannot predict whether we will realize the purpose and anticipated benefits of these initiatives and, if we do not, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected.. In fiscal 2016 we announced a company-wide Zero Based Spending program, which is one of our productivity initiatives designed to capture savings and establish cost-conscious spending policies that are consistent with our strategic needs. The anticipated savings will provide ongoing financial and operational flexibility for reinvestment to reinforce both the growth and margin improvement objectives in our financial algorithm. Our Zero Based Spending program follows on three years of productivity initiatives, as well as the initiatives launched with the overall Separation program, and is complementary to our overall trade promotion management project focused on improving productivity in our trade promotion spending. The achievement of our savings targets depends on our ability to successfully identify and realize savings opportunities. Events and circumstances, such as financial or strategic difficulties, delays and unexpected costs may occur that could result in our not realizing all of the anticipated benefits or our not realizing the anticipated benefits on our expected timetable. If we are unable to realize the anticipated savings, our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition may be adversely affected.. 14. If we cannot continue to develop new products in a timely manner, and at favorable margins, we may not be able to compete effectively.. The wet shave, sun and skin care, feminine care and other personal care industries in which we compete have been known for the pace of innovations in product life, product design and applied technology, and our success depends on our future innovations. The successful development and introduction of new products requires retail and consumer acceptance and overcoming the reaction from competitors. New product introductions in categories where we have existing products will likely also reduce sales of our existing products. Our investments in research and development may not result in successful products or innovation that will recover the costs of such investments. Our customers or end consumers may not purchase our new products once introduced. Additionally, new products could require regulatory approval which may not be available or may require modification to the product which could impact product success. Our competitors may introduce new or enhanced products that significantly outperform ours, or develop manufacturing technology that permits them to manufacture at a lower cost relative to ours and sell at a lower price. If we fail to develop and launch successful new products, or fail to reduce our cost structure to a competitive level, we may be unable to grow our business and compete successfully.. We may not be able to continue to identify and complete strategic acquisitions and effectively integrate acquired companies to achieve desired financial benefits.. We have completed a number of significant acquisitions and we expect to continue making acquisitions if appropriate opportunities arise. Acquisitions could be a key use of our cash and a potential driver of future growth. However, we may not be able to identify and successfully negotiate suitable strategic acquisitions at attractive valuations, obtain financing for future acquisitions on satisfactory terms or otherwise complete future acquisitions. As a result of the Separation, our reduced size may make completing desirable acquisitions more challenging.. If we can complete future acquisitions, we may face significant challenges in consolidating functions and effectively integrating procedures, personnel, product lines, and operations in a timely and efficient manner. The integration process can be complex and time consuming, may be disruptive to our existing and acquired business and may cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, the business. Even if we can successfully complete the integration of acquired businesses into our operations, there is no assurance that anticipated cost savings, synergies, or revenue enhancements will be realized within the expected time frame, or at all.. A failure of a key information technology system or a breach of our information security could adversely impact our ability to conduct business.. We rely extensively on information technology systems in order to conduct business, including some that are managed by third-party service providers. These systems include, but are not limited to, programs and processes relating to internal and external communications, ordering and managing materials from suppliers, converting materials to finished products, shipping products to customers, processing transactions, summarizing and reporting results of operations, and complying with regulatory, legal or tax requirements. These information technology systems could be damaged or cease to function properly due to the poor performance or failure of third-party service providers, catastrophic events, power outages, network outages, failed upgrades or other similar events. If our business continuity plans do not effectively resolve such issues on a timely basis, we may suffer interruptions in conducting our business which may adversely impact our operating results.. Further, our systems and networks, as well as those of our retailer customers, suppliers, service providers, and banks, may become the target of cyber-attacks or information security breaches, which in turn could result in the unauthorized release and misuse of confidential or proprietary information about our Company, employees, customers or consumers, as well as disrupt our operations or damage our facilities or those of third parties. As a result, a cyber-attack could negatively impact our net sales and increase our operating and capital costs. In addition, our employees frequently access our supplier's and customer's systems and we may be liable if our employees are the source of any breaches in these third-party systems. It could also damage our reputation with retailer customers and consumers and diminish the strength and reputation of our brands, or require us to pay monetary penalties. We may also be required to incur additional costs to modify or enhance our systems in order to try to prevent or remediate any such attacks.. 15. Our business is subject to increasing global regulation, including product related regulations and environmental regulations, that may expose us to significant liabilities.. The manufacture, packaging, labeling, storage, distribution, advertising and sale of our products are subject to extensive regulation. For example, our products are regulated by health authorities (such as the Food and Drug Administration in the U.S.) and consumer protection organizations (such as the Consumer Product Safety Commission in the U.S.). These regulatory frameworks focus on our ingredients as well as the safety and efficacy of our products. Similarly, the advertising and marketing of our products is regulated by agencies such as the Federal Trade Commission in the U.S. All of these regulatory frameworks exist at the federal, state and local level in the United States as well as in foreign countries where we sell our products. New or more restrictive regulations or more restrictive interpretations of existing regulations are likely and could lead to additional compliance cost and have an adverse impact on our business. Additionally, a finding that we are in violation of, or not in compliance with, applicable laws or regulations could subject us to material civil remedies, including fines, damages, injunctions or product recalls, or criminal sanctions. Even if a claim is unsuccessful, is not merited or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding such assertions could jeopardize our reputation and brand image and have a material adverse effect on our businesses, as well as require resources to rebuild our reputation.. We must comply with various environmental laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, including those relating to the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and the remediation of contamination associated with the use and disposal of hazardous substances. A release of such substances due to accident or an intentional act could result in substantial liability to governmental authorities or to third parties. Pursuant to certain environmental laws, we could be subject to joint and several strict liability for contamination relating to our or our predecessors' current or former properties or any of their respective third-party waste disposal sites. In addition to potentially significant investigation and remediation costs, any such contamination can give rise to claims from governmental authorities or other third-parties for natural resource damage, personal injury, property damage or other liabilities. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, capital and operating expenses and other costs in complying with environmental laws and regulations, including remediation costs relating to our current and former properties and third-party waste disposal sites. As new laws and regulations are introduced, we could become subject to additional environmental liabilities in the future that could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.. Our access to capital markets and borrowing capacity could be limited.. Our access to capital markets to raise funds through the sale of debt or equity securities is subject to various factors, including general economic and financial market conditions. Significant reduction in market liquidity conditions could impact access to funding and increase associated funding costs, which could reduce our earnings and cash flows. Additionally, disruptions in financial markets could reduce our access to debt and equity capital markets, negatively affecting our ability to implement our business plan and strategy.. Our access to debt financing at competitive risk-based interest rates is partly a function of our credit ratings. The major credit rating agencies periodically evaluate our creditworthiness and have assigned us credit ratings. These ratings are based on a number of factors, which include our financial strength and financial policies as well as our strategies, operations and execution. A downgrade to our credit ratings could increase our interest rates, limit our access to public debt markets, limit the institutions willing to provide us credit facilities, result in more restrictive credit arrangements and make any future credit facilities or credit facility amendments more costly and difficult to obtain.. 16. Impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets would result in a reduction in net income.. We have a material amount of goodwill, trademarks and other intangible assets, as well as other long-lived assets, which are periodically evaluated for impairment in accordance with current accounting standards. Declines in our profitability and estimated cash flows related to specific intangible assets, as well as potential changes in market valuations for similar assets and market discount rates, may result in an impairment charge, which could have an adverse impact on our operating results.. For example, during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015, we completed impairment testing on indefinite-lived intangible assets other than goodwill, which consist of trademarks and brand names used across our segments. We determined that the carrying values of our Playtex, Wet Ones and Skintimate brand names were above their fair values, resulting in a non-cash asset impairment charge of $318.2 million. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016, we completed our annual impairment testing and found the carrying value of our Skintimate brand name to be above the fair value, resulting in an additional non-cash asset impairment charge of $6.5 million. As of October 1, 2016, the Skintimate brand name was converted to a definite-lived asset and assigned a useful life of 20 years. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, we completed our annual impairment testing and found the carrying values of our Playtex and Edge brand names to be above the fair value, resulting in a non-cash asset impairment charge of $312.0 and $7.0, respectively. Both Playtex and Edge brand names have been converted to a definite-lived asset with a useful life of 20 years The carrying value of our Wet Ones brand name was reduced to the determined fair value in fiscal 2015. As such, the intangible asset will be sensitive in the future to changes in forecasted cash flows, as well as other assumptions used in an impairment analysis, including discount rates.. Legislative changes in applicable tax laws, policies and regulations or unfavorable resolution of tax matters may result in additional tax liabilities, which could adversely impact our cash flows and results of operations.. Our businesses are subject to taxation in the U.S. and multiple foreign jurisdictions. The U.S. is considering corporate tax reform that may significantly change the corporate tax rate and the U.S. International tax rules. In addition, international tax reform remains a priority with the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development's Action Plan on Base Erosion & Profit Shifting and other proposed foreign jurisdictional tax law changes. Given the uncertainty of the potential changes we are unable to determine whether the net consolidated impact would be positive or negative. However, the impact of any legislative tax law, policy or regulation changes by federal, state and local and foreign authorities may result in additional tax liabilities which could adversely impact our cash flows and results of operations.. Significant estimation and judgment is required in determining our provisions for taxes in the U.S. and jurisdictions outside the U.S. In the ordinary course of our business, there are transactions and calculations in which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities, and although we believe our tax positions are defensible and our tax provision estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of tax audits and related litigation could be materially different than that reflected in our income tax provisions and accruals. The unfavorable resolution of any audits or litigation could have an adverse impact on future operating results and our financial condition. More aggressive and assertive tax collection policies, particularly in jurisdictions outside the U.S., may increase the costs of resolving tax issues and enhance the likelihood that we will have increased tax liabilities going forward.. Our manufacturing facilities, supply channels or other business operations may be subject to disruption from events beyond our control.. Operations of our manufacturing and packaging facilities worldwide, and of our corporate offices, and the methods we use to obtain supplies and to distribute our products, may be subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, including availability of raw materials, work stoppages, industrial accidents, disruptions in logistics, loss or impairment of key manufacturing sites, product quality or safety issues, licensing requirements and other regulatory issues, trade disputes between countries in which we have operations, and acts of war, terrorism, pandemics, fire, earthquake, hurricanes, flooding or other natural disasters. The supply of our raw materials may be similarly disrupted. There is also a possibility that third-party manufacturers, which produce a significant portion of certain of our products, could discontinue production with little or no advance notice, or experience financial problems or problems with product quality or timeliness of product delivery, resulting in manufacturing delays or disruptions, regulatory sanctions, product liability claims or consumer complaints. If a major disruption were to occur, it could result in delays in shipments of products to customers or suspension of operations. We maintain business interruption insurance to potentially mitigate the impact of business interruption, but such coverage may not be sufficient to offset the financial or reputational impact of an interruption.. 17. We have a substantial level of indebtedness and are subject to various covenants relating to such indebtedness, which could limit our discretion to operate and grow our business.. As of September 30, 2017, our debt level was approximately $1.5 billion. We may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash to debt service, thereby reducing funds available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and investments and other general corporate purposes. Our failure to make scheduled interest payments or to repay or refinance the indebtedness at maturity or obtain additional financing as needed could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Additionally, certain of our debt instruments are subject to certain financial and other covenants, including debt ratio tests. We may be in breach of such covenants in the event of future declines in our operating cash flows or earnings performance, foreign currency movements or other events. In the event of such breach, our lenders may be entitled to accelerate the related debt as well as any other debt to which a cross-default provision applies, and we could be required to seek amendments or waivers under the debt instruments or to refinance the debt. There is no assurance that we would obtain such amendments or waivers or effect such refinancing, or that we would be able to do so on terms similar to our current debt instruments. The covenants and financial ratio requirements contained in our debt instruments could also increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets in which we operate, place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to our competitors that have greater financial flexibility or limit, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds as needed or take advantage of business opportunities as they arise.. Our business is subject to seasonal volatility.. Customer orders for sun care products within our Sun and Skin Care segment are highly seasonal, which has historically resulted in higher sun care sales to retailers during the late winter through mid-summer months. Accordingly, our sales, financial performance, working capital requirements and cash flow may experience volatility during these periods. Further, purchases of our sun care products can be significantly impacted by unfavorable weather conditions during the summer period, and as a result we may suffer decreases in net sales if conditions are not favorable for use of our products, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operation and cash flows. Within our Wet Shave segment, sales of women's products are moderately seasonal, with increased consumer demand in the spring and summer months.. There can be no guarantee that we will repurchase stock.. Although the Board has authorized a share repurchase program, and we repurchased approximately 2.2 million of our shares in fiscal 2017 for $165.4 million, any determination to repurchase or to continue to repurchase our common shares will be based primarily upon our financial condition, results of operations, available U.S. cash, business requirements and the Board's continuing determination that the repurchase program is in the best interests of shareholders and is in compliance with all laws and agreements applicable to the repurchase program.. We do not expect to pay dividends for the foreseeable future.. Following the completion of the Separation, the Board eliminated the quarterly cash dividend payable on our common shares, which had been in effect prior to that time, and we do not currently expect to declare or pay dividends on our common shares for the foreseeable future. Instead, we intend to retain earnings to finance the growth and development of our business, for our share repurchase program and for working capital and general corporate purposes. Any payment of dividends will be at the discretion of the Board and will depend upon various factors then existing, including earnings, financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, level of indebtedness, contractual restrictions with respect to payment of dividends, restrictions imposed by applicable law, general business conditions and other factors that the Board may deem relevant. As a result, you may not receive any return on an investment in our capital stock in the form of dividends.. 18. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, competitors may manufacture and market similar products, which could adversely affect our market share and results of operations.. The vast majority of our total net sales are from products bearing proprietary trademarks and brand names. In addition, we own or license from third parties a considerable number of patents, patent applications and other technology. We rely on trademark, trade secret, patent and copyright laws to protect our intellectual property rights. There is a risk that we will not be able to obtain and perfect or maintain our own intellectual property rights or, where appropriate, license intellectual property rights necessary to support new product introductions. In addition, even if such rights are protected in the U.S., the laws of some other countries in which our products are or may be sold do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. Our intellectual property rights could be invalidated, circumvented or challenged in the future, and we could incur significant costs in connection with legal actions relating to such rights. As patents expire, we could face increased competition or decreased royalties, either of which could negatively impact our operating results. If other parties infringe our intellectual property rights, they may dilute the value of our brands in the marketplace, which could diminish the value that consumers associate with our brands and harm our sales.. Our financial results could be adversely impacted by the United Kingdom's departure from the European Union.. On June 23, 2016, the United Kingdom (the \"U.K.\") held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the E.U., commonly referred to as \"Brexit,\" and on March 29, 2017, the U.K. began the process to withdraw from the E.U. As a result, the global markets and currencies have been adversely impacted, including a sharp decline in the value of the British Pound as compared to the U.S. dollar and other foreign currencies. Volatility in exchange rates is expected to continue as the U.K. negotiates its exit from the E.U. Given the lack of comparable precedent, the implications of Brexit or how such implications might affect us and our operations are unclear. Brexit could, among other things, disrupt trade and the free movement of goods, services and people between the U.K. and the E.U. or other countries, as well as create legal and global economic uncertainty. For fiscal 2017, net sales of our U.K. operations were 4.0% of our consolidated net sales. In addition, the Company completed the acquisition of Bulldog Skincare Holdings Limited on October 31, 2016, which is based in the U.K. These and other potential implications of Brexit could adversely affect our business and financial results.. Our business involves the potential for product liability and other claims against us, which could affect our results of operations and financial condition and result in product recalls or withdrawals.. We face exposure to claims arising out of alleged defects in our products, including for property damage, bodily injury or other adverse effects. We maintain product liability insurance, but this insurance does not cover all types of claims, particularly claims other than those involving personal injury or property damage or claims that exceed the amount of insurance coverage. Further, we may not be able to maintain such insurance in sufficient amounts, on desirable terms, or at all, in the future. In addition to the risk of monetary judgments not covered by insurance, product liability claims could result in negative publicity that could harm our products' reputation and in certain cases require a product recall. Product recalls or product liability claims, and any subsequent remedial actions, could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, brand value, results of operations and financial condition.. Our business could be negatively impacted as a result of stockholder activism or an unsolicited takeover proposal or a proxy contest.. In recent years, proxy contests and other forms of shareholder activism have been directed against numerous public companies. If a proxy contest or an unsolicited takeover proposal was made with respect to us, we could incur significant costs in defending the Company, which would have an adverse effect on our financial results. Shareholder activists may also seek to involve themselves in the governance, strategic direction and operations of the Company. Such proposals may disrupt our business and divert the attention of our management and employees, and any perceived uncertainties as to our future direction resulting from such a situation could result in the loss of potential business opportunities, be exploited by our competitors, cause concern to our current or potential customers, and make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel and business partners, all of which could adversely affect our business. In addition, actions of activist shareholders may cause significant fluctuations in our stock price based on temporary or speculative market perceptions or other factors that do not necessarily reflect the underlying fundamentals and prospects of our business.. 19. We may not be able to attract, retain and develop key personnel.. Our future performance depends in significant part upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key personnel. The loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Our success also depends on our continuing ability to attract, retain and develop highly qualified personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that we can retain and motivate our key employees or attract and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future.. We may experience losses or be subject to increased funding and expenses related to our pension plans.. The funding obligations for our pension plans are impacted by the performance of the financial markets, interest rates and governmental regulations. While the pension benefit earned to date by active participants under our legacy U.S. pension plan was frozen effective January 1, 2014, and retirement service benefits no longer accrue under this retirement program, our pension obligations are expected to remain significant. If the investment of plan assets does not provide the expected long-term returns, if interest rates or other assumptions change, or if governmental regulations change the timing or amounts of required contributions to the plans, we could be required to make significant additional pension contributions which may have an adverse impact on our liquidity, our ability to comply with debt covenants and may require recognition of increased expense within our financial statements.. Certain provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws, and of Missouri law, could deter or delay a third-party's efforts to acquire us, especially if the Board determines it is not in the best interest of our shareholders.. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain, and the General and Business Corporation Law of Missouri contains, provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices or bids unacceptably expensive to the bidder and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with the Board rather than to attempt a hostile takeover by making the replacement of incumbent directors more time-consuming and difficult. These provisions include, among others:. • restrictions on various types of business combinations with, or the voting of certain holders of shares of our voting stock by, significant shareholders;. • the inability of our shareholders to call a special meeting or, unless unanimous, to act by written consent;. • rules regarding how shareholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at shareholder meetings;. • the right of the Board to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval;. • a provision that our shareholders may only remove directors \"for cause\" and with the approval of the holders of two-thirds of our outstanding voting stock at a special meeting of shareholders called expressly for that purpose;. • the ability of our directors, and not shareholders, to fix the size of the Board or to fill vacancies on the Board;. • a prohibition of amendment of our bylaws by shareholders without first amending the articles of incorporation; and. • the requirement that any amendment or repeal of specified provisions of our articles of incorporation (including provisions relating to certain business combinations, directors, and amendment of our bylaws) must be approved by the holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding shares of our common stock and any other voting shares that may be outstanding, voting together as a single class.. We believe that these provisions will help to protect our shareholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with the Board and by providing the Board with more time to assess any acquisition proposal. These provisions are not intended to make us immune from takeovers. However, these provisions will apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some shareholders and could deter or delay an acquisition that the Board determines is not in our best interests or the best interests of our shareholders. These provisions may also prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors.. 20. The trading price of our common shares may be volatile.. The trading price of our common shares could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to several factors, some of which are beyond our control. These include general stock market volatility, variations in our quarterly operating results, general trends in the consumer products industry, changes by securities analysts in their estimates or investment ratings and general marketplace conditions.. Risks Related to the Separation of the Household Products Business. Our historical financial information is not necessarily representative of the results that we would have achieved had the Separation taken place before July 1, 2015, and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results.. Our historical financial information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is derived from our consolidated financial statements and accounting records compiled when the Household Products business was part of the Company. Accordingly, the historical financial information does not necessarily reflect the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows that we would have achieved had the Separation taken place prior to the periods presented or those that we will achieve in the future as a stand-alone Personal Care products enterprise. For additional information about the past financial performance of our business and the basis of presentation of our historical financial statements, see the historical financial statements and accompanying notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. If the Separation, together with certain related transactions, does not qualify as a transaction that is generally tax free for U.S. federal income tax purposes, our shareholders could be subject to significant tax liabilities.. In connection with the Separation we received an opinion of counsel regarding the qualification of the Separation, together with certain related transactions, as a transaction that is generally tax free for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code (the \"Code\"). The opinion of counsel was based upon and relied on, among other things, certain facts and assumptions, as well as certain representations, statements and undertakings of us and New Energizer, including those relating to the past and future conduct of us and New Energizer. If any of these representations, statements or undertakings are, or become, inaccurate or incomplete, or if either we or New Energizer breaches any of its covenants in the Separation documents, the opinion of counsel may be invalid and the conclusions reached therein could be jeopardized.. Notwithstanding the opinion of counsel, the Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") could determine that the distribution, together with certain related transactions, should be treated as a taxable transaction if it determines that any of the representations, assumptions or undertakings upon which the opinion of counsel was based are false or have been violated, or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion of counsel. The opinion of counsel is not binding on the IRS and there can be no assurance that the IRS will not assert a contrary position.. If the Separation, together with certain related transactions, fails to qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would recognize taxable gain as if we had sold the New Energizer common shares in a taxable sale for its fair market value and our shareholders who received New Energizer shares in the distribution would be subject to tax as if they had received a taxable distribution equal to the fair market value of such shares. Failure of the Separation to qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free could have a substantial impact on our tax obligations, consolidated financial condition and cash flows.. Indemnifications under the Separation agreement with New Energizer or New Energizer's inability to satisfy indemnification obligations in the future could negatively impact our financial results.. Pursuant to the separation agreement and certain other agreements with New Energizer, New Energizer agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities, and we agreed to indemnify New Energizer for certain liabilities, in each case for uncapped amounts. Indemnities that we may be required to provide New Energizer may be significant and could negatively impact our business. Further, the indemnity from New Energizer may not be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, and New Energizer may not be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. Moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from New Energizer any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses ourselves. Each of these risks could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 21"
