[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The future success and continued viability of our business, like any venture, is subject to many recognized and unrecognized risks and uncertainties. Such risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements made in this report or presented elsewhere by management. The following list identifies and briefly summarizes certain risk factors. The list should not be viewed as complete or comprehensive, as the risks below are not the only risks facing Energen. Energen could also be affected by other risks and uncertainties in addition to those described herein. If any of the following risks were to occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected; and such events could impair our ability to implement business plans or complete development activities as scheduled. Further, the trading price of our shares could decline, and shareholders could lose part or all of their investment. In addition, such risks may prevent us from complying with our financial and non-financial covenants and may result in a default under our credit facility or other short-term or long-term debt.. We undertake no obligation to correct or update such risk factors whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with our disclosure specific to forward-looking statements made elsewhere in this report under the heading \"Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements\".. Risks Related to Our Business. Commodity prices for crude oil and natural gas are volatile, and a substantial reduction in commodity prices could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Our revenues, cash flows and earnings are influenced predominantly by the amount of oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas we produce, net of the effects of settlements on our derivative commodity instruments, and the prices we receive for production. Oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas are commodities and historical markets for oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas have been volatile, and prices are subject to wide fluctuations in response to changes in supply and demand.. In addition to reducing our revenue, cash flows and earnings, low prices for oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas may adversely affect us in a variety of other ways. For example, some of our exploration and development projects could become uneconomic, and we may also have to make significant downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves and our estimates of the present value of those reserves. If these price effects occur, or if our estimates of production or economic factors change, accounting rules may require us to writedown, as a noncash impairment loss in our statements of income, the carrying value of our proved oil and natural gas properties. Lower commodity prices may also result in a reduction in the amount we are permitted to borrow under our credit facility and adversely impact our ability to meet financial ratios contained in our debt agreements, especially those calculated by reference to the value of our reserves, earnings or cash flows, which could reduce the amount we are permitted to borrow under our credit facility or result in an event of default under our debt agreements. We could also be required to reduce our capital spending on exploration and development, which will adversely affect our ability to replace our reserves and could result in the loss of leasehold. As more fully disclosed in Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the heading \"Credit Facility and Working Capital\", the Company discusses its plans regarding liquidity and covenant compliance for 2018.. Approximately 58 percent of our December 31, 2017 proved reserves are oil. As a result, changes in oil prices have a greater impact on our business than changes of comparable magnitude in natural gas prices. Commodity prices for oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas are reflections of supply and demand and are subject to many factors that are beyond our control, including:. • the domestic and foreign supply of oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas, including the ability of the members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and other exporting countries to agree on and maintain oil price and production controls;. • the level of consumer demand for oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas;. • global or regional oil and natural gas inventory levels;. • the availability, proximity and capacity of transportation facilities and processing facilities;. • global economic conditions;. • commodity price disparities between delivery points and applicable index prices;. • the supply, demand and pricing of alternative sources of energy or fuels and the effects of energy conservation efforts or technological advances in energy consumption;. • weather conditions;. • changes in political conditions in major oil and natural gas producing regions; and. • domestic, local and foreign governmental regulations and taxes.. 11. Our oil and natural gas proved reserves are estimates, and actual future production may vary significantly and may also be negatively impacted by our inability to invest in production on planned timelines.. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved oil and natural gas reserves and in projecting future rates of production and timing of development expenditures. Reserve estimation is a subjective process involving the estimation of volumes to be recovered from underground accumulations of oil and natural gas that are unable to be measured in an exact manner. The reserve estimation process is dependent upon and subject to multiple variables and assumptions, including:. • oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas prices;. • timing of development expenditures;. • the quality, quantity and interpretation of available geological, geophysical and engineering data;. • the geologic characteristics of the reservoirs;. • future operating costs, property, severance, excise and other taxes and costs; and. • the effects of compliance with regulatory and contractual requirements.. Additionally, in the event we are unable to fully invest or must alter the timing of our planned investment expenditures, our future revenues, production and proved reserves could be negatively affected.. Drilling for and producing oil and natural gas are high-risk activities with many uncertainties that could impact our expenses or our production volumes.. Drilling involves many risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or natural gas reservoirs will be located or economically developed. Our future drilling activities may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, such failure could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial condition. Anticipated drilling plans and capital expenditures may also be delayed, curtailed or canceled which could result in actual drilling and capital expenditures being substantially different than currently planned, due to:. • delays resulting from compliance with regulatory or contractual requirements, which may include limitations on hydraulic. fracturing or the emission of greenhouse gases;. • unexpected or unusual pressure or irregularities in geological formations;. • unexpected drilling conditions;. • declines in oil, natural gas liquids or natural gas prices;. • adverse weather conditions, such as tornadoes, lightning, flooding, snow and ice storms;. • delays in, limited availability of, or cost to obtain personnel and equipment necessary to complete our drilling, completion and operating activities;. • equipment or facility failures and accidents or malfunctions resulting in blowouts, fires, explosions, uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids, surface cratering and other events;. • title related issues;. • fracture stimulation failures;. • restricted access to land for drilling;. • reductions in availability of financing at acceptable rates;. • strategic changes implemented by management; and. • limitations in the market for oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas.. While all drilling, whether developmental, extension or exploratory, involves these risks, exploratory and extension drilling involve greater risks of dry holes or failure to find and exploit commercially productive quantities of oil and natural gas. We expect to continue to experience exploration and abandonment expense in 2018 and future years.. Our concentration of producing properties in the Permian Basin of west Texas and New Mexico makes us vulnerable to risks associated with operating in limited geographic areas.. At December 31, 2017, primarily all of our total estimated proved reserves were attributable to properties located in the Permian Basin of west Texas and New Mexico. As a result of this geographic concentration, we may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of regional supply and demand factors, delays or interruptions of production from wells in these areas caused by:. • local, state and federal governmental regulation;. • processing or transportation capacity constraints;. • market limitations;. • water shortages, including restrictions on water usage or other drought related conditions; or. 12. • interruption of the processing or transportation of oil, natural gas liquids or natural gas.. Certain of our undeveloped leasehold acreage is subject to leases that will expire over the next several years unless production is established on units containing the acreage.. Certain of the Company's acreage is currently undeveloped. Unless production in paying quantities is established on units containing certain of these leases during their terms, the leases will expire. If our leases expire, we will lose our right to develop the related properties. Our drilling plans for these areas are subject to change based upon various factors, including drilling results, oil and natural gas prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, availability of drilling services and equipment, gathering system and pipeline transportation constraints and regulatory approvals.. Our industry is highly competitive which makes it challenging for us to acquire properties to replace our proved oil and natural gas reserves, market oil and natural gas and locate and secure qualified personnel.. We operate in a highly competitive environment for acquiring properties to replace our proved oil and natural gas reserves, marketing oil and natural gas and locating and securing qualified personnel. Many of our current and potential competitors may possess greater financial, technical and personnel resources than we do. Those competitors may be willing to pay more for exploratory prospects and productive oil and natural gas properties, as well as for trained personnel. Our ability to acquire properties and to find and develop proved reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to execute transactions in an intensely competitive environment. Our failure to acquire properties, market oil and natural gas and secure trained personnel could have a material adverse effect on our production, revenues and results of operations.. Our business is capital intensive, and we may not be able to obtain the needed capital, financing, or refinancing of our current indebtedness on satisfactory terms or at all.. Our exploration, development and acquisition activities are capital intensive and constitute the primary use of our capital resources. We make and expect to continue to make significant capital expenditures for the exploration, development and acquisition of oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas reserves. We have historically funded our capital expenditures through cash flows from operations, our credit facility or other borrowings, debt and equity markets and property sales. We expect that we will continue to fund a portion of our capital expenditures with borrowings under our credit facility, from the proceeds of debt and equity issuances and from proceeds of property sales. However, adverse changes in the commodity price environment or industry conditions may result in a lack of access to capital on attractive terms or at all. Thus, no assurance can be given that we will be able to access either the debt or equity capital markets, or be able to sell properties for attractive prices, to repay any such future borrowings.. If our borrowing capacity decreases, for any reason, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to support our future operations. If we are unable to obtain necessary financing with appropriate terms, we could experience a decline in our operations. Specifically, a failure to secure additional financing, or necessary refinancing, could result in a reduction of our operations relating to the development of future prospects, which in turn could lead to a decline in our proved oil and natural gas reserves and could adversely affect our future production, revenues and results of operations. Further, we could realize a loss of acreage through lease expirations, and we may not be able to complete acquisitions that may be favorable to us or finance the capital expenditures necessary to replace our reserves.. The terms of our credit facility limit the amount we can borrow to a borrowing base amount which is determined by our lenders in their sole discretion based on their valuation of our proved reserves and their internal criteria including commodity price outlook. The borrowing base amount is subject to redetermination semi-annually on April 1 and October 1 of each year and for event-driven unscheduled redeterminations. On April 13, 2016, the borrowing base and aggregate commitments were reduced to $1.05 billion in association with the semi-annual redetermination required under the agreement. On October 25, 2016, the borrowing base was reaffirmed with no changes. On April 21, 2017, the borrowing base was increased to $1.4 billion. The aggregate commitments under the credit facility did not change and remained at $1.05 billion. On November 9, 2017, the borrowing base was increased to $1.7 billion. The aggregate commitments under the credit facility did not change and remained at $1.05 billion. As of December 31, 2017, the Company had $255 million outstanding under its revolving credit facility. A lowering of our borrowing base could require us to immediately repay indebtedness in excess of the borrowing base, or we might need to further secure the lenders with additional collateral, if available. If our borrowing base decreases, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations at current levels. If additional capital is needed to fund our capital expenditures, our ability to access the capital markets may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing or offering and the covenants in our existing debt agreements, as well as by adverse market conditions resulting from, among other things, general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control.. 13. We are also subject to financial and non-financial covenants under the terms of our credit facility. The financial covenants in our credit facility require Energen to maintain a ratio of total debt to consolidated income before interest expense, income taxes, depreciation, depletion, amortization, exploration expense and other noncash income and expenses (EBITDAX) less than or equal to 4.0 to 1.0. As of December 31, 2017, we were in compliance with our covenants and expect to maintain compliance during 2018. However, in future periods, factors, including those outside of our control, may prevent us from maintaining compliance with the financial and non-financial covenants, including our total debt to EBITDAX covenant. Such factors may include commodity price declines, lack of liquidity in property and capital markets and our continuing ability to execute on our business plan. In the event that we are unable to remain in compliance with our financial and non-financial covenants, we would seek covenant relief at a scheduled redetermination date or at an interim date, as appropriate. However, no assurances can be given with respect to such relief. If any such covenant violations are not waived by the lenders such violation would result in an event of default that could trigger acceleration of payment of the amounts outstanding under our credit facility and long-term note agreements. Additionally, the lenders could refuse to make additional loans under the credit facility, take possession of any collateral, and exercise other remedies or rights that may be available to them, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the business and financial condition of the Company. As more fully disclosed in Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the heading \"Credit Facility and Working Capital\", the Company discusses its plans regarding liquidity and covenant compliance for 2018.. In 2016 we discontinued dividend payments and, therefore, only appreciation in the price of our common stock will provide a return to our stockholders.. Although we have paid cash dividends on our common stock in the past, in February 2016 our board of directors announced the discontinuance of dividend payments. We currently intend to retain future earnings and other cash resources, if any, for the operation and development of our business. Any payment of future dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our results of operations, financial condition, contractual restrictions, cash requirements, future prospects and other considerations that our board of directors deems relevant.. The nature of our operations involves many operational risks including the risk of personal injury, property damage and environmental damage, and our insurance policies do not cover all such risks.. Inherent in our oil and natural gas production activities are a variety of hazards and operational risks, including but not limited to:. • pipeline and storage leaks, ruptures and spills;. • equipment malfunctions and mechanical failures;. • fires and explosions;. • well blowouts, explosions and cratering;. • uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids;. • vandalism;. • pollution;. • releases of toxic gases;. • adverse weather conditions or natural disasters; and. • soil, surface and water or groundwater contamination from petroleum constituents, hydraulic fracturing fluid, or produced water.. Such events could result in loss of human life, significant damage to or destruction of property, environmental pollution or other damage, impairment or suspension of our operations, repair and remediation costs, regulatory investigations and penalties or lawsuits and other substantial financial losses. Furthermore, our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to all of the operating risks associated with drilling for and producing oil and natural gas, including those noted above. Additionally, the location of certain of our pipeline and storage facilities near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could increase the level of damages resulting from these risks.. In accordance with customary industry practices, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks and losses; and the insurance coverages are subject to retention levels and coverage limits. We may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. Furthermore, we could be subject to the credit risk of our insurers if we make a claim under our insurance policies. There is no guarantee that we will be able to obtain or maintain our insurance in the future at rates we deem economical and that the insurance we may desire will be offered by insurers. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured or under-insured events or insurer insolvency, in the event of a claim, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 14. We are subject to extensive regulation, including numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations as well as legislation and regulations restricting the emissions of \"greenhouse gases\" that may require significant expenditures or impose significant restrictions on our operations.. We are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation which significantly influences our operations. Federal, state and local legislative bodies and agencies frequently exercise their respective authority to adopt new laws and regulations and to amend, modify and interpret existing laws and regulations. Such changes can subject us to significant tax or increased expenditures and can impose significant restrictions and limitations on our operations. Noncompliance with these laws and regulations may subject us to administrative, civil or criminal penalties, remedial cleanups, and natural resource damages or other liabilities. Furthermore, we may incur significant costs to remain in compliance with or to return to compliance with applicable regulations if they are revised or reinterpreted or if governmental policies or laws change related to our operations.. If additional federal, state or local regulations or restrictions are adopted in the areas we operate or plan to operate, we may incur significant costs to comply with the requirements, experience delays or have to curtail our exploration, development, or production activities. Additionally, such restrictions could reduce the amount of oil and gas that we are able to recover from our proved reserves.. While the subject of climate change appeared to be a federal regulatory priority in years past, efforts at the federal level are currently focused on rolling back or repealing many environmental regulations including those related to climate change. However, many state and local governments remain focused on climate change, adopting new regulations to control emissions and otherwise legislate efforts to reduce climate change. If federal regulatory priorities shift and additional federal regulations are adopted, or if state and local legislation or regulatory programs to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases are adopted, it could require us to incur increased operating costs, such as those for purchasing and operating emissions control systems, acquiring emissions allowances or complying with new regulatory or reporting requirements. Any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost of consuming and using oil and natural gas, and thereby negatively impact the demand for the oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas we produce. Consequently, legislation and regulatory programs related to greenhouse gases could adversely affect our production, revenues and results of operations.. Federal, state and local legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing, as well as governmental reviews of such activities, could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays and adversely affect our production.. Energen regularly utilizes hydraulic fracturing in its drilling and completion activities, and hydraulic fracturing is a common practice that is used in the oil and gas industry to stimulate production of hydrocarbons from tight (low permeability) formations. After a well has been drilled, hydraulic fracturing is used during the completion process to form small fractures in the target formation through which the oil, natural gas liquids or natural gas can flow. The fractures are created when a water-based fluid is pumped at a calculated rate and pressure into the crude oil- or natural gas-bearing rock. The fracture fluid is a mixture composed primarily of water and sand or inert ceramic, sand-like grains; it also contains a small percentage of special purpose chemical additives (which are highly diluted-typically less than one percent by volume) that can vary by project. The millimeter-thick cracks or fractures in the target formation are propped open by the sand, thereby allowing the crude oil or natural gas to flow from tight reservoirs into the well bore.. The hydraulic fracturing process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions. Texas and New Mexico, two states in which we operate, have adopted, and other states have considered adopting, regulations that could impose new or stricter permitting, disclosure and well construction requirements on companies that perform hydraulic fracturing. Consideration and efforts to regulate hydraulic fracturing by local, state and federal authorities continue and local land use restrictions, such as county and city ordinances, may also restrict or prohibit any type of drilling or hydraulic fracturing. Federal legislation governing hydraulic fracturing activities has been somewhat limited. However, under the Safe Drinking Water Act's Underground Injection Control Program, the EPA has assumed regulatory authority of hydraulic fracturing involving diesel additives and issued revised permitting guidance in February 2014 requiring facilities to obtain permits to use diesel additives in hydraulic fracturing activities. Legislation intended to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and require disclosure of the chemicals used has been introduced and considered by the U.S. Congress. In December 2016, the EPA issued its final report on the relationship between hydraulic fracturing and drinking water resources and no further federal regulatory efforts have been undertaken since the issuance of that report. Continuing efforts to regulate hydraulic fracturing are most likely to be at the state and local government level. If federal restrictions, or additional state or local restrictions in the areas we operate, or plan to operate, are adopted, we may incur significant costs to comply with the requirements, experience delays or have to curtail our exploration, development, or production activities. Additionally, such restrictions could reduce the amount of oil and gas that we are able to recover from our proved reserves.. 15. Our operations are dependent on the availability, use and disposal of water; and restrictions on our ability to acquire or dispose of water could cause us to incur substantial costs in the acquisition, usage and disposal of water.. Water is a key component of both the drilling and hydraulic fracturing processes. Historically, we have been able to obtain water from various local sources for use in our operations. Over the last decade, Texas has experienced periods of severe drought conditions that have persisted for several years. Local water districts may restrict the use of water subject to their jurisdiction for drilling and hydraulic fracturing in order to protect the local water supply during drought conditions. If we are unable to obtain water to use in our operations from local sources, we may have to incur substantial costs to produce oil and natural gas and it may make it uneconomical to produce in that area. Our drilling procedures produce water of which we must dispose. We could be unable to dispose of our wastewater or face increased costs and procedures for disposal as a result of changes in federal, state or local legislation governing the disposal of drilling wastewater.. We periodically evaluate our proved and unproved oil and natural gas properties for impairment and could be required to recognize non-cash charges in our statements of income in future periods. If commodity prices for oil, natural gas liquids or natural gas decline or our drilling efforts are unsuccessful, we may be required to writedown the carrying values of certain oil and natural gas properties.. We periodically review the carrying value of our proved and unproved oil and natural gas properties for possible impairment on a field-by-field basis. We monitor our oil and natural gas properties as well as the market and business environments in which we operate and make assessments about events that could result in potential impairment issues, which include, but are not limited to, downward commodity price trends, unanticipated increased operating costs and lower than expected production performance. If a material event occurs, we perform an evaluation to determine whether the asset is impaired. If the undiscounted net future cash flows determined by such evaluations are insufficient to fully recover the cost invested in the respective project, we will record an impairment loss in our statements of income. We recorded $1.7 million, $220.7 million and $1.3 billion of impairments during 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.. We are exposed to counterparty credit risk as a result of our concentrated customer base and to the risks associated with other companies with whom we do business experiencing financial distress.. Revenues and related accounts receivable from oil and natural gas operations primarily are generated from the sale of produced oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas to a small number of energy marketing companies. Such sales are typically made on an unsecured credit basis with payment due the month following delivery. This concentration of sales to a limited number of customers in the energy marketing industry has the potential to adversely affect our overall exposure to credit risk based on changes in economic, industry or other conditions specific to a single customer or to the energy marketing industry generally. We consider the credit quality of our customers and, in certain instances, may require credit assurances such as a deposit, letter of credit or parent company guarantee.. In addition, we rely on other working interest owners in our wells to pay their proportionate share of costs and on oilfield service companies and midstream companies for services associated with the drilling and completion of wells and for certain midstream services. A decline in the commodity price environment may result in a material adverse impact on the liquidity and financial position of the companies with whom we do business, resulting in delays in payment of, or non-payment of, amounts owing to us and similar impacts. These events could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We are subject to financing and interest rate exposure risks. Volatility in global financial markets, negative operating results, certain strategic business decisions, or other matters resulting in a downgrade in, or a negative outlook with respect to, our credit ratings could negatively impact our cost of and our ability to access capital for future development and working capital needs.. We rely on access to credit markets, and turmoil or volatility in the global financial markets could lead to a contraction in credit availability and negatively impact our ability to finance our operations. Global financial market turmoil, as has been experienced in the last decade, could materially affect our operations, liquidity and financial condition through the adverse impacts such turmoil can have on the debt and equity capital markets. Market volatility and credit market disruption may severely limit credit availability, and issuer credit ratings can change rapidly. A significant reduction in cash flows from operations or the availability of credit could limit our ability to pursue acquisition opportunities or reduce cash flow used for drilling which could materially and adversely affect our ability to achieve our planned growth and operating results.. The availability and cost of credit market access is significantly influenced by market events and rating agency evaluations for lenders and Energen. In addition to operating results, business decisions relating to recapitalization, refinancing, restructuring,. 16. acquisition and disposition transactions involving Energen may negatively impact market and rating agency considerations regarding the credit of Energen.. Our derivative risk management activities may limit our potential gains and involve other risks that could result in financial losses.. Although we make use of futures, swaps, options, collars and fixed-price contracts to mitigate price risk, fluctuations in future oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas prices could materially affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Furthermore, such risk mitigation activities may cause our financial position and results of operations to be materially different from results that would have been obtained had such risk mitigation activities not been implemented. The changes in the fair market value of our derivative contracts as reported in our consolidated statements of income may result in significant non-cash gains or losses.. The effectiveness of such risk mitigation assumes that counterparties maintain satisfactory credit quality and that actual sales volumes will generally meet or exceed the volumes subject to the futures, swaps, options, collars and fixed-price contracts. A substantial failure to meet sales volume targets, whether caused by miscalculations, weather events, natural disaster, accident, mechanical failure, criminal act or otherwise, could leave us financially exposed to our counterparties and result in material adverse financial consequences to Energen. The adverse effect could be increased if the adverse event was widespread enough to move market prices against our position.. Derivatives reform legislation and associated regulation could negatively impact our ability to use derivative instruments as part of our risk management activities.. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act) established federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives markets and participants in such markets by the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) and the SEC. The CFTC and the SEC have adopted, or are in the process of adopting, rules and regulations covering, among other derivative transactions, transactions linked to crude oil and natural gas prices.  Although the CFTC has adopted some final regulations, other regulations applicable to derivative transactions in which Energen engages have not been finally adopted or implemented, and we cannot predict the timing of adoption of final regulations.. The CFTC issued proposed regulations to set position limits for certain futures and options contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents in October 2011. The CFTC's initial regulations on position limits were vacated by the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia in 2012, and the CFTC proposed new position limits in November 2013. The CFTC modified its commodity position limits proposal in May 2016 and the revised position limit regulations have not yet been adopted; however, the rules as proposed place limits on certain physical commodity swap contracts, subject to exceptions for bona fide hedging contracts. Until such time as the regulations are finalized, we cannot ascertain the impact of such regulations on our derivative activities.. The CFTC has designated certain interest rate swaps and credit default swaps for mandatory clearing and the associated rules also may require Energen, in connection with covered derivative activities, to comply with certain clearing and trade-execution requirements or take steps to qualify for an exemption to such requirements, although the application of these provisions to us is uncertain at this time. Although we believe we qualify for the end-user exception from the mandatory clearing requirements for swaps entered to mitigate our commercial risks, the application of the mandatory clearing and trade execution requirements to other market participants, such as dealers, may change the cost and availability of our future derivative arrangements (including through requirements to post collateral which could adversely affect Energen's available liquidity). The changes in the regulation of swaps may result in certain market participants deciding to curtail or stop engaging in derivative activities. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the Dodd Frank Act and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures and our results of operations. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our operations depend on the use of third-party facilities, and an interruption of our ability to utilize these facilities may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Energen delivers to third-party facilities. These facilities include third-party oil and natural gas gathering, transportation, processing and storage facilities. Energen relies on such facilities for access to market for our oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas production. Such facilities are typically limited in number and geographically concentrated. A lack of available capacity on these facilities could result in the shut-in of producing wells or the delay or discontinuance of development plans for properties for Energen. An. 17. extended interruption of access to or service from these facilities, whether caused by weather events, natural disaster, accident, mechanical failure, criminal act, maintenance or otherwise could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations.. The success of our future operations is dependent on our future drilling activities and our ability to economically develop our oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas reserves; and our expectations regarding future drilling and development activities are subject to uncertainties that could significantly alter the occurrence or timing of such activities, as they are expected to be realized over multiple years.. We have identified drilling locations and prospects for future drilling, including development and exploratory drilling activities. Our ability to successfully and economically drill and develop these locations depends on a number of factors, including:. • prices of oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas;. • current laws or regulations or changes in the laws or regulations in or affecting the identified and prospective locations;. • the availability and cost of capital;. • seasonal and other weather conditions;. • regulatory approvals;. • negotiation of agreements with third parties;. • access to and availability of required equipment, supplies and personnel; and. • drilling results.. Because of the factors noted above, we cannot provide any guarantee regarding the timing or success of future drilling activities; and our actual drilling activities may materially differ from our current expectations, including potential delays, curtailment or cancellation of anticipated drilling plans and capital expenditures.. Energen has limited control over activities on properties which we do not operate, which could reduce our production and revenues.. Energen operates in certain instances through joint ventures under joint operating agreements. Typically, the operator under a joint operating agreement enters into contracts, such as drilling contracts, for the benefit of all joint venture partners. Through the joint operating agreement, the non-operators reimburse, and, in some cases advance, the funds necessary to meet the contractual obligations entered into by the operator. For properties we do not operate, we have limited ability to control the operation or future development of the properties or the amount of capital expenditures that we are required to fund with respect to them. An operator's failure to adequately perform operations, an operator's breach of the applicable agreements or an operator's failure to act in our best interest could reduce our production and revenues. The success and timing of our drilling and development activities on properties operated by others is dependent on a number of factors, including the operator's timing and amount of capital expenditures, expertise and financial resources, inclusion of other participants in drilling wells and use of technology. Our dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these projects and our limited ability to control the operation and future development of these properties could negatively affect the realization of our expected returns on capital in drilling or acquisition activities and could lead to unexpected costs in the future.. Our business could be negatively impacted by security threats, including cybersecurity threats and related disruptions.. We face a variety of security threats, including cybersecurity threats to access sensitive information or render data or systems unusable, threats to the security of our facilities and infrastructure or those of third parties, including processing plants and pipelines, and threats from terrorist acts. Current procedures and controls may not be sufficient to prevent security breaches from occurring, and we could have to implement additional procedures and controls to mitigate the effects of potential breaches and monitor for potential security threats resulting in increased capital and operating costs. In the event of a security breach, losses of sensitive information, critical infrastructure or capabilities essential to our operations could occur and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, operations, financial position and results of operations. Cybersecurity attacks are sophisticated and prevalent and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data and systems, other electronic security breaches that could cause disruptions in critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential information and data corruption. As we rely on our information technology infrastructure to process, transmit and store electronic information critical for the efficient operation of our business and day-to-day operations, such attacks could lead to a material disruption in our business, including the theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation or release of confidential data or other business information, financial losses, loss of business, potential liability and damage our reputation."
