[1] "ITEM 1A.   RISK FACTORS. Any of the following risk factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from historical or anticipated results. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones we face. There may be additional risks that we currently consider not to be material or of which we are not currently aware, and any of these risks could cause our actual results to differ materially from historical or anticipated results.. You should carefully consider these risks along with the other information included in this document, including the matters addressed above under \"Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements\" before investing in any of our securities. We may amend, supplement or add to the risk factors described below from time to time in future reports filed with the SEC.. Risks Relating to Our Insurance Businesses. If we are unable to implement our business strategies successfully, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected.. Our future results of operations will depend in significant part on the extent to which we can implement our business strategies successfully, including with respect to our active underwriting segments, which we have less experience operating. Our ability to develop and execute our business strategies in our run-off and active business is essential to our success, future growth opportunities, expanded market visibility and increased access to capital.. Our business strategies are described in \"Item 1. Business - Business Strategy.\" We may not be able to implement these strategies or any future strategies fully or realize the anticipated results of our strategies as a result of significant business, economic, regulatory and competitive uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to successfully implement our business strategies, we may not be able to achieve future growth in our earnings and our financial condition may suffer and, as a result, holders of our ordinary shares may receive lower returns.. Inadequate loss reserves could reduce our net earnings and capital and surplus, which could have a materially adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition.. Our success is dependent upon our ability to assess accurately the risks associated with the business we have insured and reinsured. We are required to maintain reserves to cover the estimated ultimate liability for losses and LAE for both reported and unreported incurred claims. These reserves are only estimates of what we expect the settlement and administration of claims will cost based on facts and circumstances known to us, as well as actuarial methodologies, historical industry loss ratio experience, loss development patterns, estimates of future trends and developments and other variable factors such as inflation. We cannot be certain that ultimate losses will not exceed our estimates of losses and LAE because of the uncertainties that surround the estimation process (which are discussed above in \"Item 1. Business - Liability for Losses and Loss Adjustment Expense\"). As a result, actual losses and LAE paid will deviate, perhaps substantially, from the reserve estimates reflected in our financial statements. If our reserves are insufficient to cover the actual losses and LAE, we would have to augment our reserves and incur a charge to our earnings. These charges could be material and would reduce our net earnings and capital and surplus.. In our non-life run-off businesses, loss reserves include asbestos and environmental (\"A&E\") liabilities and liabilities associated with personal injury A&E claims from acquired companies with legacy manufacturing businesses. Ultimate values for A&E claims cannot be estimated using traditional reserving techniques and there are significant uncertainties in estimating losses for these claims. Factors contributing to the uncertainty include long waiting periods, reporting delays and difficulties identifying contamination sources and allocating damage liability. Developed case law and adequate claim history do not always exist for A&E claims, and changes in the legal and tort environment affect the development of such claims. To further understand this risk, see \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies - Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses - Non-Life Run-off - Latent Claims\".. In our active underwriting businesses, U.S. GAAP does not permit insurers and reinsurers to reserve for catastrophes until they occur, which means that claims from these events could cause substantial volatility in our financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, as well as our financial strength ratings.. 23. Our active underwriting businesses present inherent risks and uncertainties which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Underwriting is inherently a matter of judgment, involving assumptions about matters that are unpredictable and beyond our control, and for which historical experience and probability analysis may not provide sufficient guidance. Our Atrium and StarStone active underwriting businesses expose us to significant risks that could result in under performance of the active underwriting businesses compared to our expectations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Those risks include, but are not limited to:. • exposure to claims arising out of unpredictable natural and man-made catastrophic events (including hurricanes, windstorms, tsunamis, severe weather, earthquakes, floods, fires, droughts, explosions, environmental contamination, acts of terrorism, cyber events, war or political unrest) and changing climate patterns and ocean temperature conditions;. • failure of our risk management and loss limitation methods (described in \"Item 1. Business - Enterprise Risk Management\") to adequately manage our loss exposure or provide sufficient protection against losses;. • the intense competition for business in this industry, including competition from major global insurance and reinsurance companies and underwriting syndicates that may have greater experience and resources than our companies or that may be more highly rated than our companies, or competition resulting from industry consolidation;. • dependence on a limited number of brokers, managing general agents and other third parties to support our business, both in terms of the volume of business we rely on them to place and the credit risk we assume from them; and. • susceptibility to the effects of inflation due to premiums being established before the ultimate amounts of losses and LAE are known.. The cyclical nature of the insurance and reinsurance industries may make it more difficult for Atrium and StarStone to generate profits consistently, which could negatively impact our ability to execute our active underwriting strategies successfully.. The insurance and reinsurance industry has historically been characterized by periods of intense price competition due to excess underwriting capacity, as well as periods of more favorable pricing due to limited underwriting capacity. Periods of favorable pricing tend to attract additional underwriting capacity (by new entrants, market instruments and structures, and additional commitments by existing insurers) that ultimately cause prices to decrease.   Changes in the frequency and severity of losses suffered by insureds and insurers also impact industry cycles, and we may not be able to accurately predict whether market conditions will improve, remain constant or deteriorate. Any of these factors could lead to a significant reduction in premium rates, impair our ability to underwrite at appropriate rates, result in less favorable policy terms and drive fewer submissions for our active underwriting services, which could decrease our earnings or adversely affect our financial condition.. Cyclical market conditions also impact the availability and cost of reinsurance purchased by Atrium and StarStone as part of our risk management strategy. Market conditions may limit or prevent our active underwriting companies from obtaining adequate reinsurance protection for our business needs. If our active underwriting companies are unable to purchase reinsurance, or if reinsurance is available only on unfavorable terms or with less creditworthy reinsurers, we may retain a higher proportion of risks than we would otherwise prefer, incur additional expense, or purchase reinsurance from companies with higher credit risk, or we may underwrite fewer or smaller contracts. Any of these factors could negatively impact our financial performance.. Downgrades of financial strength ratings at StarStone or Lloyd's could materially and negatively impact our ability to write new business or renew our existing business in our active underwriting segments.. Financial strength ratings are an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance and reinsurance companies. The StarStone operating insurance entities are currently assigned a financial strength rating of \"A-\" (Excellent) by A.M. Best with a stable outlook. A ratings downgrade, outlook change or withdrawal could negatively impact StarStone's competitive position in the industry, and severely limit or prevent StarStone from writing new insurance and reinsurance contracts if policyholders move their business to other more highly-rated companies. Such a change could also inhibit our ability to implement our business and growth strategies successfully. Additionally, many of StarStone's reinsurance contracts permit the ceding companies to cancel the contract if StarStone's financial strength rating is downgraded. Whether a ceding company would cancel a reinsurance contract after a ratings downgrade. 24. would depend on a number of factors (including the reason for and extent of the downgrade, and the pricing and availability of replacement reinsurance) and, accordingly, we cannot predict the extent to which these cancellation rights would be exercised or what effect any such cancellations would have on our financial condition or results of operations.. Lloyd's ratings apply to business written through Syndicate 609 (Atrium) and Syndicate 1301 (StarStone). Lloyd's is rated \"A\" (Excellent) by A.M. Best, \"A+\" (Strong) by Standard and Poor's (\"S&P\") and \"AA-\" (Very Strong) by Fitch Ratings. Financial strength ratings downgrades at Lloyd's could adversely affect our Lloyd's syndicates' ability to trade in certain classes of business at current levels.. Emerging claim and coverage issues could adversely affect our business.. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect the adequacy of our provision for losses and LAE by either extending coverage beyond the envisioned scope of insurance policies and reinsurance contracts, or by increasing the number or size of claims. Our exposure to these uncertainties could be exacerbated by an increase in insurance and reinsurance contract disputes, arbitration and litigation. The full effects of these and other unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely hard to predict. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until long after we have acquired or issued the affected contracts. As a result, the full extent of liability under these insurance or reinsurance contracts may not be known for many years after a contract has been issued.. Our life business is subject to the risk that actual mortality, morbidity, policy persistency, and investment yield may be different than our assumptions and could render our reserves inadequate or cause our results of operations in this business to suffer materially.. The performance of our life business depends on our ability to manage the run-off successfully and operate the business effectively and efficiently. Our reserves for life policy benefits are based on certain assumptions, including mortality, morbidity, lapse rates, expenses, and discount rates based on expected yields at acquisition. The adequacy of our reserves is contingent on actual experience related to these key assumptions, which were established at acquisition. Under U.S. GAAP, these assumptions are locked in throughout the life of the contract unless a premium deficiency develops, which means the impact of the difference between assumptions and actual experience is reflected in results of operations in the current reporting period. This involves reducing any asset for Value of Business Acquired (\"VOBA\") that remains from acquisition until a premium deficiency no longer exists.  If a premium deficiency still exists after VOBA has been eliminated, we are required to unlock our reserve assumptions and reset to management's best estimate to remove the deficiency.  These revised assumptions are then locked in and used as the basis for reserve calculations going forward.  This could materially and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition.. Our life insurance subsidiaries have exposure to the risk of catastrophic mortality, such as a pandemic or other event that causes a large number of deaths. In an economic downturn, our life subsidiaries may experience an elevated incidence of lapses of life insurance policies due to increased risk that policyholders may choose to cease paying insurance premiums (resulting in a non-diversified pool of policyholders). Any of these events could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Risks Relating to Our Acquisitions. We may not be able to continue to grow our business through acquisitions.. We have pursued and, as part of our strategy, will continue to pursue growth through acquisitions of reinsurance companies and portfolios of insurance and reinsurance business, primarily in our run-off segment. However, the acquisition and management of companies and portfolios in run-off is highly competitive, and driven by a number of factors, including proposed acquisition price, reputation, and financial resources. Some of our competitors have greater financial resources than we do, have been operating for longer than we have and have established long-term and continuing business relationships throughout the insurance and reinsurance industries, which can be a significant competitive advantage. As a result, we may not be able to compete successfully in the future for suitable acquisition candidates, and if we do not continue to acquire companies, we may not be able to achieve our strategic goals.. There can be no assurance that our acquisitions will be financially beneficial to us or our shareholders.. The evaluation and negotiation of potential acquisitions, as well as the integration of an acquired business or portfolio, can be complex and costly and may require substantial management resources. Our acquisitions could involve numerous additional risks such as potential losses from unanticipated litigation, levels of claims or other liabilities. 25. and exposures, an inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition costs and financial exposures in the event that the sellers of the entities we acquire are unable or unwilling to meet their indemnification, reinsurance and other obligations to us.. Our run-off business entails acquiring and managing insurance and reinsurance companies, portfolios of insurance and reinsurance, and companies with liabilities related to legacy manufacturing operations. Unlike traditional insurers and reinsurers, our companies and portfolios in run-off no longer underwrite new policies and are subject to the risk that their stated provisions for losses and LAE, may not be sufficient to cover future losses and the cost of run-off. Because our non-life companies and portfolios in run-off generally no longer collect underwriting premiums, our sources of capital to cover losses are limited to our stated reserves, reinsurance coverage and retained earnings.. To achieve positive operating results from an acquisition, we must first price transactions on favorable terms relative to the risks posed by the acquired businesses and then successfully manage the acquired businesses by efficiently managing claims, collecting from insurers or reinsurers and controlling expenses. Failure to do these things successfully could result in us having to cover losses sustained with retained earnings, which would materially and adversely impact our ability to grow our business and may result in material losses.. We may not be able to realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions, which may result in underperformance relative to our expectations and a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. The acquisitions we have made and expect to make in the future may pose operational challenges that divert management's time and energy and expose us to risks relating to:. • funding cash flow shortages that may occur if anticipated revenues are not realized or are delayed, or if expenses are greater than anticipated;. • the value of assets or our anticipated return on assets being lower than expected or diminishing because of credit defaults, changes in interest rates, or delays in implementation of our intended investment strategies;. • the value of liabilities assumed being greater than expected;. • integrating financial and operational reporting systems and internal controls, including assurance of compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and our reporting requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the \"Exchange Act\");. • leveraging our existing capabilities and expertise into the business acquired and establishing synergies within our organization;. • funding increased capital needs and overhead expenses;. • integrating technology platforms and managing any increased cyber security risk;. • obtaining and retaining management personnel required for expanded operations;. • fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates relating to the assets and liabilities we may acquire;. • goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges; and. • complying with applicable laws and regulations.. If we are unable to address some or all of these challenges, our acquisitions may underperform relative to our expectations and our business may be materially and adversely affected.. We may not complete future acquisitions within the time frame we anticipate or at all, which could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 26. Once we have signed a definitive agreement to acquire a business or portfolio, conditions to closing, such as obtaining regulatory approvals or shareholder approvals, must be met before the acquisition can be consummated. These and other closing conditions may not be satisfied at all, or may cause a material delay in the anticipated timing of closing. In addition, our ability to complete the acquisition on the originally anticipated terms, or at all, could be jeopardized if a seller receives competing proposals, if litigation is brought challenging the transaction or certain of its terms, or if regulators impose unexpected terms and conditions on the transaction. Failure to consummate an acquisition on the originally anticipated terms, or a significant delay in the closing, could result in significant expense, diversion of time and resources, reputational damage, litigation and a failure to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, all of which could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Relating to Liquidity and Capital Resources. We may require additional capital and credit in the future that may not be available or may only be available on unfavorable terms.. Our future capital requirements depend on many factors, including acquisition activity, our ability to manage the run-off of our assumed policies, our ability to establish reserves at levels sufficient to cover losses, our underwriting plans, and our obligations to satisfy statutory capital requirements. We may need to raise additional funds through equity or debt financings in the future. Our ability to secure this financing may be affected by a number of factors, including volatility in the worldwide financial markets and the strength of our capital position and operating results. In addition, an unfavorable change or downgrade of our issuer credit ratings could increase the interest rate charged under our revolving credit facility and may make it more expensive for us to access capital markets. Any equity or debt financing, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable to us. In the case of equity financings, dilution to our existing shareholders could result, and any securities that are part of an equity financing may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our already outstanding securities. If we cannot obtain adequate capital or credit, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by, among other things, our inability to finance future acquisitions.. Uncertain conditions in the global economy generally may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. In the event of financial turmoil affecting the global banking system and global financial markets (including the sovereign debt markets), additional consolidation of the financial services industry, or significant financial service institution failures, there could be a new or incremental tightening in the credit markets, low liquidity, and extreme volatility in fixed maturity, credit, currency, and equity markets. This could have a number of effects on our business, including our ability to obtain financing for future acquisitions. Even if financing is available, it may only be available at an unattractive cost of capital, which would decrease our profitability.. Global and local economic conditions could also affect demand for and claims made under our products, our counter-party credit risk, and the ability of our customers and other counterparties to establish or maintain their relationships with us.. Net investment income and net realized and unrealized gains or losses also could vary materially from expectations depending on gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of financial instruments; impairment charges resulting from revaluations of debt and equity securities and other investments; interest rates; cash balances; and changes in the fair value of financial and derivative instruments. Increased volatility in the financial markets and overall economic uncertainty would increase the risk that the actual amounts realized in the future on our financial instruments could differ significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them.. Reinsurers may not satisfy their obligations to our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries, which could result in significant losses or liquidity issues for us.. Our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are subject to credit risk with respect to their reinsurers because the transfer of risk to a reinsurer does not relieve our subsidiaries of their liability to the insured. Reinsurance companies may be negatively impacted or downgraded during difficult financial and economic conditions in the worldwide capital markets and economies. In addition, reinsurers may be unwilling to pay our subsidiaries even though they are able to do so, or disputes may arise regarding payment obligations. The failure of one or more of our subsidiaries' reinsurers to honor their obligations in a timely fashion may affect our cash flows, reduce our net earnings or cause us to incur a significant loss. Disputes with our reinsurers may also result in unforeseen expenses relating to litigation or arbitration proceedings. A reinsurer's inability or unwillingness to honor its obligations to Atrium or StarStone may negate the intended risk-reducing impact of our reinsurance purchasing programs.. 27. Exposure to reinsurers who from time to time represent meaningful percentages of our total reinsurance balances recoverable may increase the risks described above.  For information on reinsurance balances recoverable, see \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Reinsurance Balances Recoverable.\". We are a holding company, and we are dependent on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute funds to us.. We are a holding company and therefore we are dependent on distributions of funds from our operating subsidiaries to fund acquisitions, fulfill financial obligations in the normal course of our business, and pay dividends (in the event we sought to do so). The ability of our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries to make distributions to us may be limited by various business considerations and applicable insurance laws and regulations in jurisdictions in which we operate (which are described in \"Item 1. Business - Regulation\"). The ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions to us may also be restricted by, among other things, other applicable laws and regulations and the terms of our debt obligations and our subsidiaries' debt obligations. If our subsidiaries are restricted from making distributions to us, we may be unable to maintain adequate liquidity to fund acquisitions or fulfill our financial obligations.. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may cause us to experience losses.. We maintain a portion of our investments, insurance liabilities and insurance assets denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars. Consequently, we and our subsidiaries may experience foreign exchange losses, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We publish our consolidated financial statements in U.S. dollars. Therefore, fluctuations in exchange rates used to convert other currencies, particularly Australian dollars, Canadian dollars, British pounds and Euros, into U.S. dollars will impact our reported financial condition, results of operations and cash flows from year to year.. Our failure to comply with covenants contained in our credit facilities or in the indenture governing our 4.5% Senior Notes due 2022 (\"Senior Notes\") could trigger prepayment obligations, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We and our subsidiaries currently have several outstanding credit facilities and outstanding Senior Notes. We depend on access to these funds in operating our business. The credit facilities and the indenture governing our Senior Notes contain various business and financial covenants that impose restrictions on us and certain of our subsidiaries with respect to, among other things, limitations on mergers and consolidations, acquisitions, amalgamations and sales of substantially all assets, indebtedness and guarantees, restrictions as to certain dispositions of stock and dividends and stock repurchases, investment constraints and limitations on liens on the capital stock of certain subsidiaries. We may also enter into future debt arrangements containing similar or different restrictive covenants. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default under the credit facilities or the indenture governing our Senior Notes, which could result in us being required to repay the amounts outstanding under these facilities prior to maturity. These prepayment obligations could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. In addition, complying with these covenants could limit our financial and operational flexibility. Our credit facilities and Senior Notes are described in more detail in \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Debt Obligations.\". 28. Risks Relating to Our Investments. The value of our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries' investment portfolios and the investment income that our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries receive from these portfolios may decline materially as a result of market fluctuations and economic conditions, including those related to interest rates and credit spreads.. We derive a significant portion of our income from our invested assets, which consist primarily of investments in fixed maturity securities. The net investment income that our subsidiaries obtain from investments in fixed maturity securities will generally increase or decrease with changes in interest rates. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. A rise in interest rates would increase net unrealized losses, which would decline over time as the security approaches maturity. Conversely, a decline in interest rates would increase net unrealized gains, which would decline over time as the security approaches maturity. The fair market value can also decrease as a result of a deterioration of the credit quality of those securities. Any perceived decrease in credit quality may cause credit spreads to widen and this would result in an increase in net unrealized losses. A deterioration of credit ratings on our fixed maturity security investments may result in a preference to liquidate these securities in the financial markets. If we liquidate these securities during a period of tightening credit, we may realize a significant loss.. Some of our fixed maturity securities, such as mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities, carry prepayment risk, or the risk that principal will be returned more rapidly or slowly than expected, as a result of interest rate fluctuations. When interest rates decline, consumers will generally make prepayments on their mortgages, causing us to be repaid more quickly than we might have originally anticipated, meaning that our opportunities to reinvest these proceeds back into the investment markets may be at reduced interest rates (with the converse being true in a rising interest rate environment). Mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities are also subject to default risk on the underlying securitized mortgages, which would decrease the value of our investments.. The changes in the market value of our securities that are classified as trading or available-for-sale are reflected in our financial statements. Other-than-temporary impairment losses in the value of our fixed maturity securities are also reflected in our financial statements. As a result, a decline in the value of the securities in our investment portfolios may materially reduce our net income and shareholders' equity, and may cause us to incur a significant loss. For more information on our investment portfolios, see \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Investable Assets.\". Our investments in alternative investments may be illiquid and volatile in terms of value and returns, which could negatively affect our investment income and liquidity.. In addition to fixed maturity securities, we have invested, and may from time to time continue to invest, in alternative investments such as private equity funds and co-investments, fixed income funds, fixed income hedge funds, equity funds, private credit funds and collateralized loan obligation (\"CLO\") equity funds, as well as direct investments in CLO equities. These and other similar investments may be illiquid due to restrictions on sales, transfers and redemption terms, may have different, more significant risk characteristics than our investments in fixed maturity securities and may also have more volatile values and returns, all of which could negatively affect our investment income and overall portfolio liquidity.. Alternative or \"other\" investments may not meet regulatory admissibility requirements, which may limit our subsidiaries' ability to make capital distributions to us and, consequently, negatively impact our liquidity. For more information on our alternative investments, see \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Investable Assets.\". The valuation of our investments may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions that are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to investment valuations that may materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.. Fixed maturity and alternative investments, such as private equity funds and co-investments, fixed income funds, fixed income hedge funds, equity funds, private credit funds and CLO equity funds, as well as direct investments in CLO equities, represent the majority of our total cash and invested assets. These investments are reported at fair value on our consolidated balance sheet. Fair value prices for all trading and available-for-sale securities in the fixed maturities portfolio are independently provided by our investment accounting service providers, investment managers and investment custodians, each of which utilize internationally recognized independent pricing services. We record the unadjusted price provided by our accounting service providers, managers or custodians, after we perform an. 29. internal validation process. Fair value for our alternative investments is estimated based primarily on the most recently reported net asset values reported by the fund manager, which we may adjust following our internal review.. These valuation procedures involve estimates and judgments, and during periods of market disruptions (such as periods of significantly rising or high interest rates, rapidly widening credit spreads or illiquidity), it may be difficult to value certain of our securities if trading becomes less frequent or market data becomes less observable. In addition, there may be certain asset classes that are now in active markets with significant observable data that become illiquid due to changes in the financial environment. In these cases, the valuation of a greater number of securities in our investment portfolio may require more subjectivity and management judgment. As a result, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation as well as valuation methods that are more sophisticated or require greater estimation, which may result in valuations greater than the value at which the investments could ultimately be sold. Further, rapidly changing and unpredictable credit and equity market conditions could materially affect the valuation of securities carried at fair value as reported within our consolidated financial statements and the period-to-period changes in value could vary significantly. Decreases in value could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. The nature of our business liquidity demands and the structure of our entities' investment portfolios may adversely affect the performance of our investment portfolio and financial results and our investing flexibility.. We strive to structure our investments in a manner that recognizes our liquidity needs for future liabilities. Because of the unpredictable nature of losses that may arise under the insurance and reinsurance policies issued by certain of our subsidiaries and as a result of our opportunistic commutation strategy, our liquidity needs can be substantial and may arise at any time. In that regard, we attempt to correlate the maturity and duration of our investment portfolio to our general liability profile. If we are unsuccessful in managing our investment portfolio within the context of this strategy, we may be forced to liquidate our investments at times and at prices that are not optimal, and we may have difficulty liquidating some of our alternative investments due to restrictions on sales, transfers and redemption terms. This could have a material adverse effect on the performance of our investment portfolio.. We have many individual portfolios of cash and investments from our acquired companies and portfolios. Each investment portfolio has its own regulatory admissibility requirements, and each run-off entity is likely to have negative operating and financing cash flows due to commutation activity, claims settlements and capital distributions. These factors reduce our overall investing flexibility.. Our investments in life settlements contracts are subject to the risk that actual experience could differ substantially from our assumptions related to their estimated value, which may impair their value and adversely impact our results of operations.. We own companies with interests in life insurance policies acquired in the secondary and tertiary markets and through collateralized lending transactions. We recognize our initial investment in these life settlements contracts at the transaction price plus all initial direct external costs. The transaction price was established based on certain assumptions, including the life expectancy of the insured person, the projected premium payments on the contract (including projections of possible rate increases from the related insurance carrier), the projected costs of administration relating to the contract, and the projected risk of non-payment, including the financial health of the related insurance carrier, the possibility of legal challenges from such insurance carrier or others and the possibility of regulatory changes that may affect payment. The estimated value of a contract is also affected by the discounted value of future cash flows from death benefits and the discounted value of future premiums due on the contract.. The actual value of any life settlement contract cannot be determined until the policy matures (i.e., the insured has died and the insurance carrier has paid out the death benefit to the holder). We pay continuing costs to keep the policies in force, primarily life insurance premiums, which increases the carrying amount of the investment. Because we recognize income on individual investments at an amount equal to the excess of the investment proceeds over the carrying amount of the investment at the time the insured dies, the profitability of our life settlements investments is contingent on actual experience relative to the key assumptions we made when the life settlement investment was acquired. If actual experience differs from these assumptions, our carrying value of these investments may increase or decrease. The investments are subject to a quarterly impairment review on a contract-by-contract basis. A significant negative difference between the carrying cost of contracts and death benefits expected to be received at maturity of contracts could adversely affect our net investment income and our results of operations.. 30. Risks Relating to Laws and Regulation. Insurance laws and regulations restrict our ability to operate, and any failure to comply with these laws and regulations, or any investigations, inquiries or demands by government authorities, may have a material adverse effect on our business.. We are subject to the insurance laws and regulations of a number of jurisdictions worldwide. Existing laws and regulations, among other things, limit the amount of dividends that can be paid to us by our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries, prescribe solvency and capital adequacy standards, impose restrictions on the amount and type of investments that can be held to meet solvency and capital adequacy requirements, require the maintenance of reserve liabilities, and require pre-approval of acquisitions and certain affiliate transactions. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations or to maintain appropriate authorizations, licenses, and/or exemptions under applicable laws and regulations may cause governmental authorities to preclude or suspend our insurance or reinsurance subsidiaries from carrying on some or all of their activities, place one or more of them into rehabilitation or liquidation proceedings, impose monetary penalties or other sanctions on them or our affiliates, or commence insurance company delinquency proceedings against our insurance or reinsurance subsidiaries. The application of these laws and regulations by various governmental authorities may affect our liquidity and restrict our ability to expand our business operations through acquisitions or to pay dividends on our ordinary shares. Furthermore, compliance with legal and regulatory requirements may result in significant expenses, which could have a negative impact on our profitability. To further understand these regulatory requirements, see \"Item 1. Business - Regulation.\". In addition, the insurance and reinsurance industry has experienced substantial volatility as a result of investigations, litigation and regulatory activity by various insurance, governmental and enforcement authorities concerning certain practices within the insurance and reinsurance industry. Insurance and reinsurance companies that we have acquired, or may acquire in the future, may have been or may become involved in these or other investigations, litigation or regulatory activity and may have lawsuits filed or other regulatory actions taken against them. Our involvement in any such activity would cause us to incur legal costs and, if we or any of our insurance or reinsurance subsidiaries were found to have violated any laws or regulations, we could be required to pay fines and damages and incur other sanctions, perhaps in material amounts, which could have a material negative impact on our profitability.. Political, regulatory and industry initiatives could materially adversely affect our business by increasing the amount of regulation we face or changing the nature of the regulations that apply to us in operating our insurance businesses or acquiring new insurance businesses.. Increasingly, governmental authorities have taken interest in the potential systemic risks posed by the insurance and reinsurance industry as a whole. The insurance regulatory environment has become subject to increased scrutiny across a number of jurisdictions, and authorities regularly consider enhanced or new regulatory requirements and seek to exercise their supervisory authority in new and more extensive ways. Regulators are generally concerned with the protection of policyholders above other constituencies, including our shareholders. Additional laws and regulations have been and may continue to be enacted that may have adverse effects on our operations, financial condition and liquidity. We cannot predict the exact nature, timing or scope of these initiatives; however, we believe it is likely there will continue to be increased regulatory intervention in our industry in the future, and these initiatives could adversely affect our business.. In many of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including Bermuda, there are increased initiatives relating to group supervision though cooperation and coordination among insurance regulators regardless of an individual company's domiciliary jurisdiction. The BMA acts as our Group supervisor, as described in \"Item 1. Business - Regulation\" which has led to increased regulatory reporting and oversight.. The implementation of Solvency II, an E.U.-wide directive covering the capital adequacy, risk management and regulatory reporting for insurers, requires significant resources to ensure compliance by our E.U. companies.  Additionally, if our non-E.U. subsidiaries engage in E.U. insurance or reinsurance business, additional capital requirements may be imposed for such companies to continue to insure or reinsure E.U.-domiciled risk or cedants if their regulatory regime is not deemed to have Solvency II equivalence. Bermuda has gained Solvency II equivalence, and our Bermuda reinsurers are subject to requirements in line with a Solvency II framework.. In the United States, the Dodd-Frank Act addresses the entire financial services industry and includes initiatives such as the creation of a Federal Insurance Office and other federal oversight agencies, the requiring of more transparency, accountability and focus in protecting investors and businesses, the input of shareholders regarding executive compensation, and the enhanced empowerment of regulators to punish fraud and unethical business. 31. practices. Continued compliance with these laws and regulations is likely to result in additional regulation and additional costs for us.. In addition, increased scrutiny by insurance regulators of investments in or acquisitions of insurers or insurance holding companies by private equity firms or hedge funds may result in imposition of additional regulatory requirements and restrictions. We have in the past partnered with private equity firms in making acquisitions and may do so in the future. This increased scrutiny may make it difficult to complete U.S. acquisitions with private equity or hedge funds should we seek to do so. In addition, private equity firms and hedge funds have invested in Enstar and may seek to do so in the future. This increased scrutiny may materially adversely impact our ability to raise capital through transactions with these types of investors.. The United Kingdom's referendum vote to leave the European Union could adversely affect our business.. In an advisory referendum held on June 23, 2016, the United Kingdom voted to leave the European Union (commonly referred to as \"Brexit\"). Negotiations to determine the terms of the United Kingdom's withdrawal from the European Union are ongoing, and the form of the United Kingdom's future relationship with the European Union remains uncertain. We have significant operations and employees in the United Kingdom, including our Lloyd's businesses. Brexit's impact on our U.K. businesses will depend on the United Kingdom and Lloyd's abilities to retain access to the E.U. markets, and our U.K. businesses could be adversely affected if adequate access to these markets is not obtained. Brexit may also lead to legal uncertainty and differences in national laws and regulations as the United Kingdom determines which E.U. laws to replace or replicate, and these issues could impact our structure and operations. Any of these effects of Brexit, and others we cannot anticipate, could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. Changes in accounting principles and financial reporting requirements could impact our reported financial results and our reported financial condition.. Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which is periodically revised by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\"), and they are subject to the accounting-related rules and interpretations of the SEC. We are required to adopt new and revised accounting standards implemented by the FASB.. Unanticipated developments in accounting practices may require us to incur considerable additional expenses to comply with such developments, particularly if we are required to prepare information relating to prior periods for comparative purposes or to apply the new requirements retroactively. The impact of changes in accounting standards, particularly those that apply to insurance companies, cannot be predicted but may affect the calculation of net earnings, shareholders' equity and other relevant financial statement line items. In addition, such changes may cause additional volatility in reported earnings, decrease the understandability of our financial results and affect the comparability of our reported results with the results of others.. Risks Relating to our Operations. We are dependent on our executive officers, directors and other key personnel and the loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business.. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees and upon the ability of our senior management and other key employees to implement our business strategy. We believe that there are only a limited number of available qualified personnel in the businesses in which we compete, and the pool of highly skilled employees available to fill key positions at our companies may fluctuate based on market conditions. We rely substantially upon the services of our executive officers and our subsidiaries' executive officers and directors, as well as our local management teams, to implement our business strategies. The loss of the services of any of our management or other key personnel, or the loss of the services of or our relationships with any of our directors, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Higher demand for employees with appropriate skills could lead to increased compensation expectations for existing and prospective personnel across our organization, which could also make it difficult to maintain labor expenses at desired levels.. Our directors and executive officers may have ownership interests or other involvement with entities that could compete against us, and conflicts of interest might prevent us from pursuing desirable acquisitions, investments and other business opportunities.. Our directors and executive officers may have ownership interests or other involvement with entities that could compete against us or otherwise have interests that could, at times, be considered potentially adverse to us, either in the pursuit of acquisition targets, investments or in our business operations. We have also participated in transactions. 32. in which one or more of our directors or executive officers or their affiliates had an interest, and we may do so in the future. The interests of our directors and executive officers in such transactions or such entities may result in a conflict of interest for those directors and officers.. The Audit Committee of our Board of Directors, which is comprised entirely of independent directors, reviews any material transactions involving a conflict of interest and may take actions as it deems appropriate in the particular circumstances. We may not be able to pursue all advantageous transactions that we would otherwise pursue in the absence of a conflict, in particular if our Audit Committee is unable to determine that any such transaction is on terms as favorable as we could otherwise obtain in the absence of a conflict.. Cyber-security events or other difficulties with our information technology systems could disrupt our business, result in the loss of critical and confidential information, increased costs, and adversely impact our reputation and results of operations.. We rely heavily on the successful, uninterrupted functioning of our information technology systems, as well as those of any third-party service providers we use. We rely on these systems to securely process, store, and transmit confidential and other data in connection with our critical operational functions such as paying claims, performing actuarial and other modeling, pricing, quoting and processing policies, cash and investment management, acquisition analysis, financial reporting and other necessary support functions. Our active underwriting companies rely on broker portals to bind certain business, and, therefore, a service interruption would negatively impact our ability to write business. Where we rely on third parties for outsourced functions and other services, our information may be exposed to the risk of a data breach or cyber-security incident through their systems. A failure of our information technology systems or those of our third-party service providers could materially impact our ability to perform the critical functions described above, affect the confidentiality, availability or integrity of our proprietary information and expose us to litigation and increase our administrative expenses.. Computer viruses, cyber-attacks, and other external hazards, as well as any internal process or employee failures, could expose our information technology systems to security breaches that may cause critical data to be corrupted or confidential or proprietary information to be exposed, or cause system disruptions or shut-downs. In addition to our own information, we receive and may be responsible for protecting confidential or personal information of clients, employees, and other third parties, which could also be compromised in the event of a security breach.. Although we utilize numerous controls, protections and risk management strategies to attempt to mitigate these risks, and management is not aware of a material cyber-security incident to date, the sophistication and volume of these security threats continues to increase. We may not have the technical expertise or resources to successfully prevent every data breach or cyber-security incident. The potential consequences of a data breach or cyber-security incident could include claims against us, significant reputational damage to our company, damage to our business as a result of disclosure of proprietary information, and regulatory action against us, which may include fines and penalties. Such an incident could cause us to lose business and commit resources, management time and money to remediate these breaches and notify aggrieved parties, any of which in turn could have an adverse impact on our business. We may also experience increasing costs associated with implementing and maintaining adequate safeguards against these types of incidents and attacks.. In addition, the information security and data privacy regulatory environment is increasingly demanding. We are subject to numerous laws and regulations in jurisdictions within and without the United States governing the protection of the personal and confidential information of our clients and/or employees, including in relation to medical records and financial information. These laws and regulations are rapidly expanding, increasing in complexity and sometimes conflict between jurisdictions. For example, the E.U. General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\") is set to take effect during 2018. The GDPR creates new rights for individuals to control their personal data and sets forth the requirements with which companies handling the personal data of E.U.-based data subjects will have to comply (regardless of whether such data handling involves E.U.-based operations). We will be subject to the GDPR through our handling of the personal data of E.U.-based subjects in connection with our ordinary course operations. If any person, including any of our employees or those with whom we share such information, negligently disregards or intentionally breaches our established controls with respect to our client data, or otherwise mismanages or misappropriates that data, we could be subject to significant monetary damages, regulatory enforcement actions, fines and/or criminal prosecution in one or more jurisdictions, including as a result of a violation of the GDPR.. 33. If outsourced providers such as third-party administrators, managing general agents, investment managers or other service providers were to breach obligations owed to us, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.. We outsource certain business functions to third-party providers, and these providers may not perform as anticipated or may fail to adhere to their obligations to us. For example, certain of our subsidiaries rely on relationships with a number of third-party administrators under contracts pursuant to which these third-party administrators manage and pay claims on our subsidiaries' behalf and advise with respect to case reserves. In these relationships, we rely on controls incorporated in the provisions of the administration agreement, as well as on the administrator's internal controls, to manage the claims process within our prescribed parameters. Our StarStone and Atrium subsidiaries use managing general agents, general agents and other producers to write and administer business on their behalf within prescribed underwriting authorities. We also rely on external investment managers to provide services pursuant to the terms of our investment management agreements, including following established investment guidelines. Although we monitor these administrators, agents and producers, and managers on an ongoing basis, our monitoring efforts may not be adequate or our service providers could exceed their authorities or otherwise breach obligations owed to us, which, if material, could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Ordinary Shares. Our stock price may experience volatility, thereby causing a potential loss of value to our investors.. The market price for our ordinary shares may fluctuate substantially and could cause investment losses due to, among other things, the following factors:. • announcements with respect to an acquisition or investment;. • changes in the value of our assets;. • our quarterly and annual operating results;. • sales, or the possibility or perception of future sales, by our existing shareholders;. • changes in general conditions in the economy and the insurance industry;. • the financial markets; and. • adverse press or news announcements.. A few significant shareholders may influence or control the direction of our business. If the ownership of our ordinary shares continues to be highly concentrated, it may limit your ability and the ability of other shareholders to influence significant corporate decisions.. We have a number of shareholders with large interests, including several that may be affiliated with members of our Board of Directors. The interests of certain significant shareholders may not be fully aligned with your interests, and this may lead to a strategy that is not in your best interest. As of December 31, 2017, CPPIB,  Akre Capital Management (\"Akre Capital\"), Trident, Beck Mack & Oliver (\"Beck Mack\"), and two of Enstar's executive officer co-founders (collectively) beneficially owned approximately 13.7%, 8.9%, 8.2%, 4.7% and 4.1%, respectively, of our outstanding voting ordinary shares. CPPIB owns additional non-voting ordinary shares that, together with its voting shares, represented an economic interest of approximately 19.8% as of December 31, 2017. Funds managed by Hillhouse Capital Management (collectively, \"Hillhouse\") own approximately 3.2% of our outstanding voting ordinary shares that, together with their non-voting shares and warrants, represented an economic interest of approximately 9.98% as of December 31, 2017. Trident and Hillhouse have agreed to receive additional shares of Enstar pursuant to a transaction in which we will acquire the remaining 51.8% of the shares of our equity method investee, KaylaRe. The transaction is expected to close during the first quarter of 2018 and is discussed in detail in Note 21 - \"Related Party Transactions\" in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included within Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Although they do not act as a group, the shareholders identified above may exercise significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval, and their concentrated holdings may delay or deter possible changes in control of Enstar, which may reduce the market price of our ordinary shares.. 34. Some aspects of our corporate structure may discourage third-party takeovers and other transactions, limit voting rights of certain shareholders to 9.5% or prevent the removal of our board of directors and management.. Some provisions of our bye-laws have the effect of making more difficult or discouraging unsolicited takeover bids from third parties or preventing the removal of our current board of directors and management. In particular, our bye-laws make it difficult for any U.S. shareholder or Direct Foreign Shareholder Group (a shareholder or group of commonly controlled shareholders of Enstar that are not U.S. persons) to own or control ordinary shares that constitute 9.5% or more of the voting power of all of our ordinary shares. The votes conferred by such shares will be reduced by whatever amount is necessary so that after any such reduction the votes conferred by such shares will constitute 9.5% of the total voting power of all ordinary shares entitled to vote generally. The primary purpose of this restriction was to reduce the likelihood that we or any of our non-U.S. subsidiaries will be deemed a \"controlled foreign corporation\" under prior U.S. federal tax law, which has subsequently changed (as described in \"Risks Relating to Taxation\" below). However, this limit may also have the effect of deterring purchases of large blocks of our ordinary shares or proposals to acquire us, even if some or a majority of our shareholders might deem these purchases or acquisition proposals to be in their best interests. In addition, our bye-laws provide for a classified board, whose members may be removed by our shareholders only for cause by a majority vote, and contain restrictions on the ability of shareholders to nominate persons to serve as directors, submit resolutions to a shareholder vote and request special general meetings.. These bye-law provisions make it more difficult to acquire control of us by means of a tender offer, open market purchase, proxy contest or otherwise. These provisions may encourage persons seeking to acquire control of us to negotiate with our directors, which we believe would generally best serve the interests of our shareholders. However, these provisions may have the effect of discouraging a prospective acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. In addition, these bye-law provisions may prevent the removal of our current board of directors and management. To the extent these provisions discourage takeover attempts, they may deprive shareholders of opportunities to realize takeover premiums for their shares or may depress the market price of the shares.. There are regulatory limitations on the ownership and transfer of our ordinary shares.. Insurance laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries operate require prior notices or regulatory approval of changes in control of an insurer or its holding company. Different jurisdictions define changes in control differently, and generally any purchaser of 10% or more of our ordinary shares could become subject to regulation and be required to file certain notices and reports with the applicable insurance authorities. These laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of us, including transactions that some shareholders might consider to be desirable.. The market value of our ordinary shares may decline if large numbers of shares are sold, including pursuant to existing registration rights.. We have several registration rights agreements in place pursuant to which, either as parties thereto or by virtue of assignment, certain of our shareholders hold registration rights. These primarily include CPPIB, Trident, Hillhouse and Corsair Capital. These agreements include demand registration rights pursuant to which these shareholders may require that we register certain of their ordinary shares under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the \"Securities Act\"), on up to an aggregate of eight occasions. All of these investors also have \"piggyback\" registration rights with respect to our registration of voting ordinary shares for our own account or for the account of one or more of our shareholders. As of December 31, 2017, an aggregate of approximately 8.0 million ordinary shares (approximately 3.1 million of which are non-voting ordinary shares) are subject to these registration rights agreements. On October 10, 2017, we filed a resale registration statement covering all of the shares held by these shareholders with registration rights in exchange for their agreement to waive their right to have their shares included on our universal shelf registration statement. Upon effectiveness of the resale registration statement, a large number of ordinary shares will become freely tradable without restrictions under the Securities Act. In addition, we have agreed to issue additional shares in connection with a transaction to acquire the remaining 51.8% of KaylaRe as discussed in detail in Note 21 - \"Related Party Transactions\" in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included within Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and we have agreed to include substantially all of these shares in the resale registration statement. Our ordinary shares have in the past been, and may from time to time continue to be, thinly traded, and significant sales could adversely affect the market price for our ordinary shares and impair our ability to raise capital through offerings of our equity securities.. 35. Because we are incorporated in Bermuda, it may be difficult for shareholders to serve process or enforce judgments against us or our directors and officers.. We are a Bermuda company. In addition, certain of our officers and directors reside in countries outside the United States. All or a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of these officers and directors are or may be located outside the United States. Investors may have difficulty effecting service of process within the United States on our directors and officers who reside outside the United States or recovering against us or these directors and officers on judgments of U.S. courts based on civil liabilities provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws even though we have appointed an agent in the United States to receive service of process. Further, no claim may be brought in Bermuda against us or our directors and officers for violation of U.S. federal securities laws, as such laws do not have force of law in Bermuda. A Bermuda court may, however, impose civil liability, including the possibility of monetary damages, on us or our directors and officers if the facts alleged in a complaint constitute or give rise to a cause of action under Bermuda law.. We believe that there is doubt as to whether the courts of Bermuda would enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions against us or our directors and officers, as well as our independent auditors, predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws or original actions brought in Bermuda against us or these persons predicated solely upon U.S. federal securities laws. Further, there is no treaty in effect between the United States and Bermuda providing for the enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts, and there are grounds upon which Bermuda courts may not enforce judgments of U.S. courts. Some remedies available under the laws of U.S. jurisdictions, including some remedies available under the U.S. federal securities laws, may not be allowed in Bermuda courts as contrary to that jurisdiction's public policy. Because judgments of U.S. courts are not automatically enforceable in Bermuda, it may be difficult for you to recover against us based upon such judgments.. Shareholders who own our ordinary shares may have more difficulty in protecting their interests than shareholders of a U.S. corporation.. The Bermuda Companies Act (the \"Companies Act\"), which applies to us, differs in certain material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and their shareholders. As a result of these differences, shareholders who own our shares may have more difficulty protecting their interests than shareholders who own shares of a U.S. corporation. For example, class actions and derivative actions are generally not available to shareholders under Bermuda law. Under Bermuda law, only shareholders holding collectively 5% or more of our outstanding ordinary shares or numbering 100 or more are entitled to propose a resolution at our general meeting.. We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our ordinary shares.. We do not intend to pay a cash dividend on our ordinary shares. Rather, we intend to use any retained earnings to fund the development and growth of our business. From time to time, our board of directors will review our alternatives with respect to our earnings and seek to maximize value for our shareholders. In the future, we may decide to commence a dividend program for the benefit of our shareholders. Any future determination to pay dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will be limited by our position as a holding company that lacks direct operations, the results of operations of our subsidiaries, our financial condition, cash requirements and prospects and other factors that our board of directors deems relevant. In addition, there are significant regulatory and other constraints that could prevent us from paying dividends in any event. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, on our ordinary shares may be your sole source of gain for the foreseeable future.. Our board of directors may decline to register a transfer of our ordinary shares under certain circumstances.. Our board of directors may decline to register a transfer of ordinary shares under certain circumstances, including if it has reason to believe that any non-de minimis adverse tax, regulatory or legal consequences to us, any of our subsidiaries or any of our shareholders may occur as a result of such transfer. Further, our bye-laws provide us with the option to repurchase, or to assign to a third party the right to purchase, the minimum number of shares necessary to eliminate any such non-de minimis adverse tax, regulatory or legal consequence. In addition, our board of directors may decline to approve or register a transfer of shares unless all applicable consents, authorizations, permissions or approvals of any governmental body or agency in Bermuda, the United States, the United Kingdom or any other applicable jurisdiction required to be obtained prior to such transfer shall have been obtained. The proposed transferor of any shares will be deemed to own those shares for dividend, voting and reporting purposes until a transfer of such shares has been registered on our shareholders register.. 36. It is our understanding that while the precise form of the restrictions on transfer contained in our bye-laws is untested, as a matter of general principle, restrictions on transfers are enforceable under Bermuda law and are not uncommon. These restrictions on transfer may also have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control.. Risks Relating to Taxation. Recently enacted U.S. tax reform legislation, various international tax transparency initiatives, and possible future tax reform legislation and regulations could materially affect us and our shareholders.. On December 22, 2017, the US government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\"). The Tax Act is broad and contains many provisions that will have significant implications on us, and potentially on our shareholders, including re-measurement of deferred taxes and surplus due to the reduction in corporation income tax rate, and imposition of a new base-erosion anti-abuse tax (\"BEAT\") on affiliate transactions (including reinsurance arrangements between affiliated companies). In response to the introduction of BEAT, we non-renewed (as of January 1, 2018) certain of our active underwriting affiliate reinsurance transactions between our operating entities that are subject to U.S. taxation and our non-U.S. affiliates that are not. We continue to assess the future impact of BEAT on our transaction structuring.. The Tax Act also includes modifications of the taxation of non-U.S. companies owned by U.S. shareholders. Certain aspects of the Tax Act require clarification through future regulatory action and accordingly, we are unable to definitively determine the impact to our shareholders. The Tax Act may increase the likelihood that we or our non-U.S. subsidiaries or joint ventures managed by us will be deemed a \"controlled foreign corporation\" (CFC) within the meaning of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\") for U.S. federal tax purposes. Specifically, the Tax Act expands the definition of \"10% U.S. shareholder\" for CFC purposes to include U.S. persons who own 10% or more of the value of a non-U.S. corporation's shares, rather than only looking to voting power held. Accordingly, the \"voting cut-back\" provisions included in our bye-laws that limit any U.S. shareholder from owning or controlling ordinary shares that constitute 9.5% or more of the voting power of all of our ordinary shares will be ineffective in avoiding \"U.S. shareholder\" status for U.S. persons who own 10% or more of the value of our shares. The Tax Act also expands certain attribution rules for share ownership in a way that would cause non-U.S. subsidiaries to now be treated as CFCs if owned in a group, such as Enstar, that has a non-U.S. parent company and also includes at least one U.S. subsidiary. In the event a corporation is characterized as a CFC, any \"U.S. shareholder\" of the CFC is required to include its pro rata share of certain insurance and related investment income for the taxable year, even if such income is not distributed.. The Tax Act also contains modifications to certain provisions relating to passive foreign investment company (\"PFIC\") status that if applicable to us could result in adverse tax consequences to U.S. persons who own our ordinary shares. While the Tax Act makes it more difficult to qualify for certain exceptions to PFIC status, we believe that we will not be a PFIC for U.S. federal income purposes for the foreseeable future under the enacted provisions of the Tax Act. In particular, we believe that the income of our non-U.S. subsidiaries that are insurance companies is derived in the \"active conduct of an insurance business\" by corporations that are predominately engaged in such business under the provision of the Tax Act, and that this is also the case for us when the operations of our subsidiaries are considered as a whole, under the look-through rules applicable to foreign holding companies. There are currently no final regulations regarding the application of the PFIC provisions of the Code to an insurance company, so the application of those provisions to insurance companies remains unclear in certain respects. The U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the \"IRS\") issued proposed regulations on this subject in April 2015, which, if finalized as proposed, might be construed to cause us to be treated as a PFIC. In response to the proposed regulations, comments have been submitted to the IRS on behalf of Bermuda-based insurance holding companies and others, requesting changes and clarifications to the proposed regulations so that a holding company with our structure will not be considered a PFIC. There can be no assurance that the regulations will be finalized in a manner that clearly accommodates our existing structure.. The U.S. and other countries and governing bodies have also enacted reform legislation aimed at increasing transparency on companies' global tax footprint and profile. The Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (the \"OECD\") is an intergovernmental economic organization founded to stimulate economic progress and trade. It develops economic policy recommendations to encourage policy reform in member countries. Created by the OECD under the initiative known as the \"Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Project (\"BEPS\"), \"Country-by-Country Reporting\" (Action 13) aims to ensure that multi-national businesses provide appropriate and accurate information to each respective member and non-member region based on various metrics. These metrics are directed at counteracting the effects of global preferential tax regimes and increasing tax transparency. Bermuda has adopted OECD compliant Country-by-Country Reporting regulations for Bermuda headquartered companies which requires the Company to file a report containing results of our global operations. It is uncertain how cooperating jurisdictions, including those in. 37. which we operate, will utilize the data collected in our Bermuda filing. These initiatives could increase the burden and costs of compliance.. U.S. persons who own our ordinary shares might become subject to adverse U.S. tax consequences as a result of \"related person insurance income,\" if any, of our non-U.S. insurance company subsidiaries.. For any of our wholly-owned non-U.S. insurance company subsidiaries, if (1) U.S. persons are treated as owning 25% or more of our shares, (2) the related person insurance income (\"RPII\") of that subsidiary were to equal or exceed 20% of its gross insurance income in any taxable year, and (3) direct or indirect insureds of that subsidiary (and persons related to such insureds) own (or are treated as owning) 20% or more of the voting power or value of our shares, then a U.S. person who owns our shares directly, or indirectly through non-U.S. entities, on the last day of the taxable year would be required to include in income for U.S. federal income tax purposes that person's pro rata share of the RPII of such a non-U.S. insurance company for the entire taxable year, whether or not any such amounts are actually distributed. (In the case of any of our partially-owned non-U.S. insurance company subsidiaries, the RPII provisions apply similarly, except that the percentage share ownership thresholds described in the preceding sentence are measured in terms of indirect ownership of the subsidiary's shares rather than in terms of ownership of our shares.). Moreover, if the RPII rules of the Code were to apply to any of our non-U.S. insurance company subsidiaries, any RPII that is includible in the income of a U.S. tax-exempt organization would generally be treated as unrelated business taxable income. Although we and our subsidiaries intend to operate generally in a manner so as to avoid exceeding the foregoing thresholds for application of the RPII rules, there can be no assurance that this will always be the case. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that U.S. persons who own our ordinary shares will not be required to recognize gross income inclusions attributable to RPII.. In addition, the RPII rules provide that if a shareholder who is a U.S. person disposes of shares in a foreign insurance company that has RPII and in which U.S. persons collectively own 25% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock entitled to vote, or the total value of the stock, any gain from the disposition will generally be treated as dividend income to the extent of the shareholder's share of the corporation's undistributed earnings and profits that were accumulated during the period that the shareholder owned the shares (whether or not those earnings and profits are attributable to RPII). Such a shareholder would also be required to comply with certain reporting requirements, regardless of the amount of shares owned by the shareholder. These rules should not apply to dispositions of our ordinary shares because we will not be directly engaged in the insurance business. The RPII rules have not been interpreted by the courts or the IRS and regulations interpreting the RPII rules exist only in proposed form. Accordingly, there is no assurance that our views as to the inapplicability of these rules to a disposition of our ordinary shares will be accepted by the IRS or a court.. We might incur unexpected U.S., U.K., Australia, or other tax liabilities if companies in our group that are incorporated outside those jurisdictions are determined to be carrying on a trade or business in such jurisdictions.. We and a number of our subsidiaries are companies formed under the laws of Bermuda or other jurisdictions that do not impose income taxes; it is our contemplation that these companies will not incur substantial income tax liabilities from their operations. Because the operations of these companies generally involve, or relate to, the insurance or reinsurance of risks that arise in higher tax jurisdictions, such as the United States, United Kingdom and Australia, it is possible that the taxing authorities in those jurisdictions may assert that the activities of one or more of these companies creates a sufficient nexus in that jurisdiction to subject the company to income tax there. There are uncertainties in how the relevant rules apply to insurance businesses, and in our eligibility for favorable treatment under applicable tax treaties. Accordingly, it is possible that we could incur substantial unexpected tax liabilities."
