[1] "Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. This discussion highlights some of the risks which may affect future operating results. These are the risks and uncertainties we believe are most important for you to consider. We cannot be certain that we will successfully address these risks. If we are unable to address these risks, our business may not grow, our stock price may suffer and we may be unable to stay in business. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, which we currently deem immaterial or which are similar to those faced by other companies in our industry or business in general, may also impair our business operations.. We have incurred losses since our inception in 1998 and anticipate incurring continuing losses.. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018, we had revenues of $11,932,328. During this period, we had a net loss of $12,970,015 after deducting the net loss attributable to the noncontrolling interest. There can be no assurance that we will have income from operations or net income in the future. As of June 30, 2018 we had an accumulated deficit of $137,609,659 and total equity of $5,782,818. As discussed in our consolidated financial statements, our significant operating losses and operating cash flow deficits raise doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We anticipate that we will continue to incur losses and operating cash flow deficits until we are able to increase our revenues to a level at which we become profitable. However, we cannot predict when we will operate profitably, if ever. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may be unable to sustain or increase our profitability in the future.. We may require a substantial amount of additional funds to finance our capital requirements and the growth of our business, and we may not be able to raise a sufficient amount of funds, or be able to do so on terms favorable to us and our shareholders, or at all.. We have incurred losses since our inception in 1998 and expect to continue to incur losses until we are able to significantly grow our revenues. Accordingly, we may need additional financing to remain in operation and to maintain and expand our business, and such financing may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. In the event that we issue any additional equity securities, investors’ interests in the Company will be diluted and investors may suffer dilution in their net book value per share depending on the price at which such securities are sold. Further, any such issuance may result in a change in control.. If we are unable to obtain the necessary funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to:. ·execute our growth plan;. ·take advantage of future opportunities;. ·respond to customers and competition; or. ·remain in operation.. 9. We may issue debt and/or senior equity securities in the future which would be senior to our Common Stock upon liquidation. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities, senior equity securities and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive distributions of our available assets prior to the holders of our Common Stock. As a result of the significant number of convertible preferred shares outstanding, our common shareholders may receive nothing in the case of a liquidation event.. Our stock price could be volatile and our trading volume may fluctuate substantially.. The price of our Common Stock has been and may in the future continue to be extremely volatile, with the sale price fluctuating from a low of $0.13 to a high of $30.00 since June 18, 2007, the first day our stock was traded on the NYSE American. Many factors could have a significant impact on the future price of our Common Stock, including:. ·the various risks and uncertainties discussed herein;. ·general domestic and international economic conditions and other external factors;. ·general market conditions; and. ·the degree of trading liquidity in our Common Stock.. In addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies which may be unrelated to the operating performance of those particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect our share price, notwithstanding our operating results.. For the three-month period ended June 30, 2018, the daily trading volume for shares of our Common Stock ranged from 9,529 to 3,033,889 shares traded per day, and the average daily trading volume during such three-month period was 247,505 shares traded per day. Accordingly, our investors who wish to dispose of their shares of Common Stock on any given trading day may not be able to do so or may be able to dispose of only a portion of their shares of Common Stock.. If we fail to satisfy all required continued listing requirements, our Common Stock may be delisted from the NYSE American, which would cause our Common Stock to become less liquid.. Our shares have been listed on the NYSE American since June 18, 2007. We are required to comply with all reporting and listing requirements on a timely manner and maintain our corporate governance and independent director standards. The NYSE American imposes, among other requirements, listing maintenance standards including minimum shareholders’ equity, minimum stock price and market capitalization requirements. If we are unable to remain in compliance with applicable listing requirements and our Common Stock is delisted by NYSE American, it could lead to a number of negative implications, including reduced liquidity in our Common Stock, greater volatility in the price of our Common Stock and greater difficulty in obtaining financing. There can be no assurance that our Common Stock will remain eligible for trading on the NYSE American.. The Melodious Group could sell or transfer a substantial number of shares of our Common Stock, which could depress the price of our securities or result in a change of control of the Company.. The Melodious Group currently owns 16,550,993 shares of our Common Stock. The Melodious Group does not have any contractual restrictions on its ability to sell or transfer our Common Stock on the open market, in privately negotiated transactions or otherwise, and these sales or transfers could create substantial declines in the price of our securities or, if these sales or transfers were made to a single buyer or group of buyers, could contribute to a transfer of control of the Company to a third-party. Sales by the Melodious Group of a substantial number of shares, or the expectation of such sales, could cause a significant reduction in the market price of our Common Stock.. Our industry is highly competitive and we may be unable to successfully compete.. We compete in the market for renewable energy products and services that is intensely competitive. Evolving industry standards, rapid price changes and product obsolescence also impact the market. Our competitors include many domestic and foreign companies, most of which have substantially greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources than we do. Our current competitors or new market entrants could introduce new or enhanced technologies, products or services with features that render our technologies, products or services obsolete, less competitive or less marketable. Our success will be dependent upon our ability to develop products that are superior to existing products and products introduced in the future, and which are cost effective. In addition, we may be required to continually enhance any products that are developed as well as introduce new products that keep pace with technological change and address the increasingly sophisticated needs of the marketplace. Even if our current technologies prove to be commercially feasible, there is extensive research and development being conducted on alternative energy sources that may render our technologies and protocols obsolete or otherwise non-competitive.. 10. There can be no assurance that we will be able to keep pace with the technological demands of the marketplace or successfully develop products that will succeed in the marketplace. As a small company, we will be at a competitive disadvantage to most of our competitors, which include larger, established companies that have substantially greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and other resources than us. There can be no assurance that we will have the capital resources available to undertake the research that may be necessary to upgrade our equipment or develop new devices to meet the efficiencies of changing technologies. Our inability to adapt to technological change could have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our ability to achieve significant revenue growth will be dependent on the successful commercialization of our products, including our EnSync Home Energy System, Matrix\231 Energy Management System, DER SuperModule\231 System and DER FlexTM internet of energy control platform.. We anticipate that a substantial majority of our revenue in fiscal year 2019 will come from certain of our products, including our EnSync Home Energy System, Matrix\231 Energy Management System, DER SuperModule\231 System and DER FlexTM internet of energy control platform. If these products do not meet with market acceptance, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. A number of factors may affect the market acceptance of our new products, including, among others:. ·the price of our products relative to other products either currently available or subsequently introduced;. ·the perception by potential customers and strategic partners of the effectiveness of our products for their intended purposes;. ·our ability to fund our manufacturing, sales and marketing efforts; and. ·the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts.. Our products are and will be sold in new and rapidly evolving markets. As such, we cannot accurately predict the extent to which demand for these products will increase, if at all. We do not know whether our targeted customers will accept our technology or will purchase our products in sufficient quantities to allow our business to grow. To succeed, demand for our products must increase significantly in existing markets, and there must be strong demand for products that we introduce in the future. The commercial success of our new products is also dependent on the design and development of an efficient and cost effective means to integrate such products into existing electrical systems.. To achieve profitability, we will need to expand our sales, lower our costs and increase our margins, which we may not be able to do.. To achieve profitability we will need to expand our sales, lower our costs and increase our margins. These efforts may fail due to unforeseen factors. Our failure to lower our costs could make our products less competitive and harm our ability to grow our revenues. Our inability to lower our costs and increase our margins could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. If our products do not perform as planned, we could experience increased costs, lower margins and harm to our reputation.. We have developed a portfolio of new products. We endeavor to monitor the effectiveness and performance of our products and services and implement procedures and programs in attempts to ensure such effectiveness. However, the failure of our products to perform as planned could result in increased costs, lower margins and harm to our reputation which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.. We need to continue to improve the performance of our products to meet future requirements and competitive pressures.. We need to continue to improve various aspects of our technology as we move forward with larger scale production and new applications of our products. Our products are complex and there can be no assurance our development efforts will be successful. Future developments and competition may reveal additional technical issues that are not currently recognized as obstacles. If we cannot continue to improve the performance of our products in a timely manner, we may be forced to redesign or delay large scale production or possibly abandon our product development efforts altogether.. We must build quality products to ensure acceptance of our products.. The market perception of our products and related acceptance of such products is highly dependent upon the quality and reliability of the products we build. Any quality problems attributable to our product lines may substantially impair our revenue and operating results. Moreover, quality problems for our product lines could cause us to delay or cease shipments of products or have to recall or field upgrade products, thus adversely affecting our ability to meet revenue or cost targets. In addition, while we seek to limit our liability as a result of product failure or defects through warranty and other limitations, if one of our products fails, a customer could suffer a significant loss and seek to hold us responsible for that loss and our reputation with other current or potential customers would likely suffer.. 11. To succeed, we will need to rapidly grow and we may not be successful in managing this rapid growth.. In order to successfully grow our revenues and become profitable, we will need to grow rapidly. If we fail to effectively manage this growth, our business could be adversely affected. Rapid growth will place significant demands on our management, operational and financial infrastructure. If we do not effectively manage our growth, we may fail to timely deliver products to our customers in sufficient volume or the quality of our products could suffer, which could negatively affect our operating results. To effectively manage this growth, we will need to hire additional personnel, and we will need to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. As we move forward in commercializing our new products, we will also need to effectively manage our manufacturing and marketing needs, which represent new areas of oversight for us. These additional employees, systems enhancements and improvements may require significant capital expenditures and management resources. Failure to successfully implement these improvements could hurt our ability to manage our growth and our financial position.. Our relationships with our strategic partners may not be successful, and we may not be successful in establishing additional partnerships, which could adversely affect our ability to commercialize our products and services.. Due to the expense, effort and expertise required to develop market and commercialize our products and our limited resources, an important element of our business strategy is to enter into strategic partnerships with partners who can assist us in achieving our business goals. We have entered into several strategic partnership arrangements and expect to seek additional strategic partners in the future. However, for a variety of reasons we may not be successful in these efforts. If our strategic partners do not satisfy their obligations to us, we are unable to meet our strategic partners’ expectations and demands or we are unable to reach agreements with additional suitable strategic partners, we may fail to meet our business objectives for the commercialization of our products. The terms of any additional strategic partnerships or other arrangements that we establish may not be favorable to us. Our inability to successfully implement strategic partnerships and arrangements could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Melodious Group has acquired a significant portion of our Common Stock and may choose to exert its influence in a manner that is not generally in the best interests of our shareholders.. Based on an Amendment No. 6 to Schedule 13D jointly filed with the SEC on August 8, 2017 (the “Schedule 13D”) by (i) Melodious Investments Company Limited, a British Virgin Islands Company (“MICL”) and wholly owned subsidiary of Melodious International Investments Group Limited (“MIIGL”), (ii) MIIGL, a British Virgin Islands company wholly owned by Jilun He, and (iii) Jilun He, who is the sole director of both MICL and MIIGL (together with MICL and MIIGL, the “Reporting Persons”), the Reporting Persons indicated they shared power to vote or direct the vote of 8,000,000 shares of the Company’s Common Stock as of such filing date. In addition, as of such filing date, Jilun He had the sole power to vote or direct the vote of 8,550,993 shares of the Company’s Common Stock and had the sole power to dispose or to direct the disposition of such shares. As of June 30, 2018, collectively, such shares represented approximately 27.8% of our total shares of Common Stock outstanding. However, due to the provisions of the Wisconsin Business Corporation Law (the “WBCL”) described below, the voting power of the Reporting Persons held as of June 30, 2018 would be limited to 12,360,099 votes or approximately 22.4% of total votes. Under the WBCL and the control share voting restrictions provided therein, the voting power of shares of a Wisconsin corporation held by any person or persons “acting as a group for the purpose of acquiring or holding securities” (including shares issuable upon conversion of convertible securities or upon exercise of options or warrants) in excess of 20% of the voting power in the election of directors is limited to 10% of the full voting power of those shares. This voting restriction applies to shareholders of a Wisconsin corporation unless such corporation has affirmatively provided otherwise in its articles of incorporation or another exemption applies. These control share voting restrictions are applicable to the Reporting Persons because the Company has not affirmatively opted out of such restrictions in its Articles of Incorporation and no other exemption applies. Although the Melodious Group’s current voting power and its ability to increase such voting power is thus severely limited, the Melodious Group nevertheless has significant voting power and may therefore be able to exercise a substantial level of control over all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors, amendment of our Articles of Incorporation and approval of significant corporate transactions. As a shareholder, the Melodious Group is entitled to vote its shares in their own interest, which may not always be in the interest of our shareholders generally.. Our business could be negatively affected as a result of actions by activist shareholders.. Campaigns by shareholders to effect changes at publicly traded companies are sometimes led by investors seeking to increase short-term shareholder value through various corporate actions such as proxy contests, financial or operational restructuring, or sales of assets or the entire company. In the Schedule 13D, the Melodious Group stated, among other things, that they intend to appoint several candidates to the Company’s board of directors. There can be no assurance that these shareholders’ interests will not conflict with the interests of our other shareholders.. 12. Actions by shareholder activists, including proxy contests for director elections, could adversely affect our business because:. ·responding to a proxy contest and other actions by activist shareholders can be costly and time-consuming, disrupting our operations and diverting the attention of management and our employees;. ·perceived uncertainties as to our future direction caused by activist activities may result in the loss of potential business opportunities, and may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel and business partners; and. ·if individuals are elected to our board of directors with a specific agenda, it may adversely affect our ability to effectively and timely implement our business strategy and create shareholder value.. We have implemented, and Wisconsin law contains, anti-takeover provisions that may adversely affect the rights of holders of our Common Stock.. Our Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws contain provisions that could have the effect of discouraging or making it more difficult for someone to acquire us through a tender offer, a proxy contest or otherwise, even though such an acquisition might be economically beneficial to our shareholders. These provisions include a board of directors divided into three classes of directors serving staggered terms of three years each, an advance notice procedure for shareholder proposals to be brought before an annual meeting of our shareholders, including proposed nominations of persons for election to our board of directors, and requiring approval by three quarters of our outstanding Common Stock to amend our Articles of Incorporation or By-Laws.. Additionally, we are subject to the WBCL, which contains several provisions that could have the effect of discouraging non-negotiated takeover proposals or impeding a business combination. These provisions include:. ·requiring a supermajority vote of shareholders, in addition to any vote otherwise required, to approve business combinations with certain “significant shareholders” not meeting adequacy of price standards;. ·prohibiting some business combinations between an “interested shareholder” and us for a period of three years, unless the combination was approved by our board of directors prior to the time the shareholder became a 10% or greater beneficial owner of our shares or under some other circumstances;. ·limiting actions that we can take while a takeover offer for us is being made or after a takeover offer has been publicly announced; and. ·limiting the voting power of certain shareholders who own more than 20% of our stock.. These provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for shareholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. In addition, because we are incorporated in Wisconsin, the Wisconsin control share acquisition statute and Wisconsin's “fair price” and “business combination” provisions, in addition to other provisions of Wisconsin law, would apply and limit the ability of an acquiring person to engage in certain transactions or to exercise the full voting power of acquired shares under certain circumstances. As a result, offers to acquire us, which may represent a premium over the available market price of our Common Stock, may be withdrawn or otherwise fail to be realized.. We depend on sole and limited source suppliers and outsource certain manufacturing activities, and shortages or delay of supplies of component parts may adversely affect our operating results until alternate sources can be developed.. Our operations are dependent on the ability of suppliers to deliver quality components, devices and subassemblies in time to meet critical manufacturing and distribution schedules. We have transitioned a significant portion of our manufacturing operations to Anhui Meineng Store Energy Co., Ltd. (“Meineng Energy”), our China joint venture (the “Joint Venture”), as well as third-party battery and power electronics module suppliers. If we experience any constrained supply of any such component parts or difficulties with respect to Meineng Energy’s manufacturing activities, such constraints and difficulties, if persistent, may adversely affect our operating results until alternate sourcing can be developed. There may be an increased risk of supplier constraints in periods where we are increasing production volume to meet customer demands. Volatility in the prices of component parts, an inability to secure enough components at reasonable prices to build new products in a timely manner in the quantities and configurations demanded or, conversely, a temporary oversupply of these parts, could adversely affect our future operating results.. 13. We purchase several component parts from sole source and limited source suppliers. As a result of our current production volumes, we lack significant leverage with these and other suppliers especially when compared to some of our larger competitors. If our suppliers receive excess demand for their products, we may receive a low priority for order fulfillment as large volume customers may receive priority that may result in delays in our acquiring components. If we are delayed in acquiring components for our products, the manufacture and shipment of our products could be delayed. Lead times for ordering materials and components vary significantly and depend on factors such as specific supplier requirements, contract terms, the extensive production time required and current market demand for such components. Some of these delays may be substantial. As a result, we sometimes purchase critical, long lead time or single sourced components in large quantities to help protect our ability to deliver finished products. If we overestimate our component requirements, we may have excess inventory, which will increase our costs. If we underestimate our component requirements, we will have inadequate inventory, which will delay our manufacturing and render us unable to deliver products to customers on scheduled delivery dates. Manufacturing delays could negatively impact our ability to sell our products and could damage our customer relationships.. We have limited experience manufacturing our products on a large-scale basis and may be unable to do so at our manufacturing facilities.. To date, we have achieved only very limited production of our products on a large-scale basis. We believe the current facilities at Meineng Energy and our original equipment manufacturers are sufficient to allow us to significantly increase production of our products. However, there can be no assurance that these current facilities, even if operating at full capacity, will be adequate to enable us to produce the energy storage systems in sufficient quantities to meet potential future orders. Our inability to manufacture a sufficient number of units on a timely basis would have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, strategic partner relationships, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, even if we are able to meet production requirements, we may not be able to achieve margins that enable us to become profitable.. We are subject to risks relating to product concentration and lack of revenue diversification.. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from a limited number of products. These products are also an integral component of many of our other products. We expect these products to continue to account for a large percentage of our revenues in the near term. Continued market acceptance of these products is therefore critical to our future success. Our future success will also depend on our ability to reduce our dependence on these few products by developing and introducing new products and product or feature enhancements in a timely manner. We have invested significant amounts in products that broaden our product portfolio to larger capacity and smaller capacity installations. Even if we are able to develop and commercially introduce new products and enhancements, they may not achieve market acceptance, which would substantially impair our revenue, profitability and overall financial prospects. Successful product development and market acceptance of our existing and future products depend on a number of factors, including:. ·changing requirements of customers;. ·accurate prediction of market and technical requirements;. ·timely completion and introduction of new designs;. ·quality, price and performance of our products;. ·availability, quality, price and performance of competing products and technologies;. ·our customer service and support capabilities and responsiveness;. ·successful development of our relationships with existing and potential customers; and. ·changes in technology, industry standards or end-user preferences.. Our Joint Venture could be adversely affected by the laws and regulations of the Chinese government, our lack of decision-making authority and disputes between us and the Joint Venture.. The China market has a large inherent need for advanced energy storage and power electronics and is likely to become the world’s largest market for energy storage. To take advantage of this opportunity, in November 2011, we established the Joint Venture to develop, produce, sell, distribute and service advanced storage batteries and power electronics in China. The Joint Venture also serves as an important engineering, supply chain and manufacturing supplier to the Company.. However, achieving the anticipated benefits of the Joint Venture is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties.. Although the Joint Venture partners are contractually restricted from using our intellectual property outside of the Joint Venture, there is always a general risk associated with sharing intellectual property with third-parties and the possibility that such information may be used and shared without our consent. Moreover, China laws that protect intellectual property rights are not as developed and favorable to the owner of such rights as are U.S. laws. If any of our intellectual property rights are used or shared without our approval in China, we may have difficulty in prosecuting our claim in an expeditious and effective manner. Difficulties or delays in enforcing our intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects.. 14. As a general matter, there are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of China laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the laws and regulations governing the anticipated business of the Joint Venture and the protection of intellectual property rights. These laws and regulations are sometimes vague and may be subject to future changes, and their official interpretation and enforcement may involve substantial uncertainty. The effectiveness of newly enacted laws, regulations or amendments may be delayed, resulting in detrimental reliance by foreign investors. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed future businesses may also be applied retroactively. The unpredictability of the interpretation and application of existing and new China laws and regulations will pose additional challenges for us as we seek to develop and grow the Joint Venture’s business in China. Our failure to understand these laws or an unforeseen change in a law or the application thereof could have an adverse effect on the Joint Venture.. The success of the Joint Venture will depend in part on continued support of “new energy” initiatives by the government of China that includes requirements for products like ours. Should the government change its policies in an unfavorable manner the anticipated demand for the Joint Venture’s products in China may fail to materialize.. The Joint Venture may have economic, tax or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, and may be in a position to take actions contrary to our policies or objectives. Disputes between us and the Joint Venture partners may result in litigation or arbitration that could be costly and divert the attention of our management and key personnel from focusing their time and effort on our day-to-day business. In addition, we may, in certain circumstances, be liable for the actions of the Joint Venture.. Business practices in Asia may entail greater risk and dependence upon the personal relationships of senior management than is common in North America, and therefore some of our agreements with other parties in China and South Korea could be difficult or impossible to enforce.. We are increasing our business activities in Asia. The business culture in parts of Asia is, in some respects, different from the business cultures in Western countries. Personal relationships among business principals of companies and business entities in Asia are very significant in their business cultures. In some cases, because so much reliance is based upon personal relationships, written contracts among businesses in Asia may be less detailed and specific than is commonly accepted for similar written agreements in Western countries. In some cases, material terms of an understanding are not contained in the written agreement but exist only as oral agreements. In other cases, the terms of transactions which may involve material amounts of money are not documented at all. In addition, in contrast to the Western business environment where a written agreement specifically defines the terms, rights and obligations of the parties in a legally-binding and enforceable manner, the parties to a written agreement in Asia may view that agreement more as a starting point for an ongoing business relationship which will evolve and undergo ongoing modification over time. As a result, any contractual arrangements we enter into with a counterparty in Asia may be more difficult to review, understand and/or enforce.. Our success depends on our ability to retain our managerial personnel and to attract additional personnel.. Our success depends largely on our ability to attract and retain managerial personnel. Competition for desirable personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain the necessary staff. The loss of members of managerial staff could have a material adverse effect on our future operations and on successful implementation of strategy and development of products for our target markets. The failure to maintain management and to attract additional key personnel could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In the event that we are unable to attract, hire and retain other requisite personnel, contractors and subcontractors, we may experience delays in developing and commercializing our products and services. Further, any increase in demand for specialty personnel, contractors and subcontractors may result in higher costs, which in turn may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We market and sell our products in numerous international markets. If we are unable to manage our international operations effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. We market and sell our products in a number of foreign countries, including Canada, Mexico, European Union, Caribbean and Pacific Island nations and Southeast Asia countries. We are therefore subject to risks associated with having international operations. Risks inherent in international operations include, but are not limited to, the following:. ·changes in general economic and political conditions in the countries in which we operate;. ·unexpected adverse changes in foreign laws or regulatory requirements, including those with respect to renewable energy, environmental protection, permitting, export duties and quotas;. 15. ·trade barriers such as export requirements, tariffs, taxes and other restrictions and expenses, which could increase the prices of our products and make us less competitive in some countries;. ·fluctuations in exchange rates may affect demand for our products and may adversely affect our profitability;. ·difficulty of, and costs relating to compliance with, the different commercial and legal requirements of the overseas markets in which we offer and sell our products;. ·inability to obtain, maintain or enforce intellectual property rights; and. ·difficulty in enforcing agreements in foreign legal systems.. Our business in foreign markets requires us to respond to rapid changes in market conditions in these countries. Our overall success as a global business depends, in part, on our ability to succeed in differing legal, regulatory, economic, social and political conditions. We may not be able to develop and implement policies and strategies that will be effective in each location where we do business, which in turn could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our sales cycle is lengthy and variable, and PPA projects have high selling prices, which makes it difficult for us to forecast revenue and other operating results.. Our sales cycle is lengthy and variable, and PPA projects have high selling prices, which makes it difficult for us to accurately forecast revenue in a given period, and may cause revenue and operating results to vary significantly from period to period. Some potential customers for our products typically need to commit significant time and resources to evaluate the technology used in our products and their decision to purchase our products may be further limited by budgetary constraints and numerous layers of internal review and approval, which are beyond our control. We spend substantial time and effort assisting potential customers in evaluating our systems and products, including providing reference data and independent engineering reports. Even after initial approval by appropriate decision makers, the negotiation and documentation processes for the actual adoption of our systems and products can be lengthy. As a result of these factors, based on our experience to date, our sales cycle, the time from initial contact with a prospective customer to routine commercial utilization of our products, has varied and can sometimes be several months or longer, which has made it difficult for us to accurately project revenues and other operating results. As a result, our financial results may fluctuate on a quarterly basis which may adversely affect the price of our Common Stock.. Our increased emphasis on larger and more complex system solutions and customer concentration may adversely affect our ability to accurately predict the timing of revenues and to meet short-term expectations of operating results.. Our increased emphasis on larger and more complex system solutions has increased the effort and time required by us to complete sales to customers. Further, a larger portion of our quarterly revenue is derived from relatively few large transactions with relatively few customers. Any delay in completing these large sales transactions or any reduction in the number of customers or large transactions, may result in significant adverse fluctuations in our quarterly revenue. Further, we use anticipated revenues to establish our operating budgets and a large portion of our expenses, particularly rent and salaries are fixed in the short term. As a result, any shortfall or delay in revenue could result in increased losses and would likely cause our operating results to be below public expectations. The occurrence of any of these events would likely materially adversely affect our results of operations and likely cause the market price of our Common Stock to decline.. We target markets through PPAs. The PPA business is very complex, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully develop such business.. We plan to continue to develop the PPA portion of our business and given our limited experience and the complex nature of this business, we may encounter difficulties in doing so. When we enter into a PPA, we agree to provide electricity to our customer at a contracted rate for a fixed period of time (typically 20 years). To satisfy our obligations under the PPA, we need to develop a system that includes power generation capability (typically PV), an energy management system and may also include energy storage. The development and construction of these systems can require long periods of time, generally 9 to 13 months, and there are significant risks related to the development of such systems, including potential technical difficulties and regulatory difficulties, including obtaining necessary permits. There can be no assurance that we will be able to overcome these risks as we develop our PPA business. Additionally, the failure of any counterparty to perform its obligations under a PPA may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The PPA industry for PV only projects is highly competitive and we may not be able to compete successfully or grow our business in this market. It involves competition in areas of pricing, grid access and markets and our inability to compete successfully in this line of business may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we cannot enter into PPAs on terms favorable to us, or at all, it would negatively impact our revenue and our decisions regarding the development of our PPA business. 16. In light of the long-term nature of PPAs and the significant capital requirements associated with them, we plan to sell them to third-parties rather than hold them for their full contract term. We completed our first sale of a tranche of PPA projects in the first quarter of fiscal 2017. The sale of PPAs is a complex endeavor that is impacted by a variety of factors including interest rates, the availability of tax and other incentives, the perceived reliability and bankability of the system, creditworthiness of the offtaker and other market forces beyond our control. Even if we are able to sell our PPAs, we may not be able to do so at attractive prices and we may retain significant exposure following the sale due to our keeping an ownership interest or because we warranty the related system or otherwise retain maintenance responsibility. Our inability to sell our PPAs on acceptable terms, or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The market for developing and selling PPAs that incorporate energy storage with PV generating systems is still very new and there may be limited numbers of buyers for these PPAs.. The current geographic concentration of our PPA business creates an exposure to local economies, regional downturns or severe weather or catastrophic occurrences that may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Since our entrance into the PPA business, our PPAs have been constructed primarily in Hawaii, and substantially all of our revenues and project backlog associated with our PPA business has been concentrated in Hawaii. As a result, our PPA business is currently more susceptible to local or regional conditions than the operations of more geographically diversified competitors. Any unforeseen events or circumstances that negatively affect these areas could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Severe weather conditions and other catastrophic occurrences in Hawaii or from areas in which we obtain products or services for our PPA business may also adversely affect our results of operations. Such conditions may result in physical damage or loss to our energy management systems, an inability to procure the necessary personnel or contractors in our markets, temporary disruption in the supply of products and delays in project completion. Any of these factors may disrupt our business and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We expect to rely on third-party suppliers and contractors when developing and constructing systems for our PPA business.. We expect to source the components of systems deployed in our PPA business from a wide selection of third-party suppliers and engage third-party contractors for the construction of the systems. We expect to enter into contracts with our suppliers and contractors on a project-by-project basis rather than maintaining long-term contracts with our suppliers or contractors. Therefore, we expect to be exposed to price fluctuations with respect to the components sourced from our suppliers and the construction services procured from our contractors. Increases in the prices of system components, decreases in their availability, fluctuations in construction, labor and installation costs, or changes in the terms of our relationship with our suppliers and contractors may increase the cost of procuring equipment and engaging contractors and hence materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Furthermore, the delivery of defective products or products or construction services by our suppliers or contractors which are otherwise not in compliance with contract specifications, or the late supply of products or construction services, may cause construction delays or solar power systems that fail to adhere to our quality and safety standards, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow.. Any cyber-attack or other failure of our communications and technology infrastructure and systems could have an adverse impact on us.. We rely on the secure storage, processing and transmission of electronic data and other information and technology systems, including software and hardware, for the efficient operation of our business. If our communications systems or computer hardware (or software or those of any third-party on which we rely or with whom we conduct business) are impacted by a cyber-attack, data security breach or cyber-intrusion, particularly or as part of a broader attack or intrusion by one or more third-parties, including computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, our operations or capabilities could be interrupted or diminished and important information could be lost, deleted, corrupted or stolen, which could have a negative impact on our revenues and results of operations or which could cause us to incur unanticipated liabilities or costs and expenses to replace or enhance affected systems, including costs, fines and litigation related to cyber security. Despite security measures and safeguards we have employed, our infrastructure may be vulnerable to such attacks as a result of the rapidly evolving and increasingly sophisticated means by which attempts to compromise such security measures and gain access to our information technology systems may be made. As threats evolve and grow increasingly more sophisticated, we cannot ensure that a potential security breach may not occur or quantify the potential impact of such an event.. 17. Our business currently depends on governmental mandates and the availability of rebates, tax credits and other economic incentives related to alternative energy resources and the expiration, reduction, modification or elimination of these government mandates and economic incentives or the imposition of tariffs, price floors or other similar measures on internationally sourced supplies may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Our business depends on government policies that promote and support solar energy and enhance the economic viability of owning solar energy systems or otherwise obtaining electricity from alternative energy resources.  Various governmental bodies provide incentives in the form of feed-in tariffs, rebates, system performance payments, tax credits and other incentives and mandates, such as renewable portfolio standards and net metering, to promote the use of solar energy and to reduce dependency on other forms of energy.  These mandates and incentives have had a significant impact on the development of solar energy, but they are also subject to change and are expected to decline in the longer term.  For example, these incentives may expire on a particular date and not be renewed or extended, end when the allocated funding is exhausted, or could be reduced, terminated or repealed without notice. In particular, a reduction in payments for net metering in our target markets, such as California, would reduce the economic viability of solar energy as an alternative energy resource and, as a result, reduce the market for our products and services. Further, a decrease in the price of traditional energy resources could reduce the financial value of one or more of these incentives, which may discourage our customers from purchasing our products or services in reliance on such incentives.. Actions by governmental bodies regarding the imposition of mandates or the provision of economic incentives often depend on political and economic factors that we cannot predict and that are beyond our control.  Moreover, our financing partners or those of our customers may elect not to continue to provide financing due to general market conditions, changes in governmental economic incentives or mandates or concerns about the solar power industry generally.  The reduction, modification or elimination of governmental mandates or economic incentives in one or more of our customer markets could diminish the market for solar energy and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations through decreased revenue, increased expenses or otherwise.. Governmental bodies may also impose tariffs on imported solar equipment, which may increase our supply costs. The imposition of these measures, particularly on supplies we import from China, would significantly increase our cost of sales and potentially cause substantial disruption to the economic model of the solar power industry as a whole. Any such increases or disruption would materially and adversely affect our business strategy, financial condition and results of operations.. Potential changes in international trade relations implemented by the U.S. presidential administration could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We have transitioned a significant portion of our manufacturing operations to the Joint Venture, and the Joint Venture serves as an important supplier to the Company along with other third-party suppliers in China. Import operations from China and other countries are subject to international trade regulations, including import charges and other agreements among the U.S. and its trading partners, including China. The current U.S. presidential administration, certain members of Congress and other U.S. officials have indicated that they may advocate and/or enact key policy shifts in trade relations among the U.S. and other countries. In January 2018, the U.S. imposed a 30 percent tariff on China solar cells and modules that steps down over time. Further, the U.S. presidential administration has recently announced a number of additional initiatives relating to U.S. trade relations with China, including potential reductions in trade with China and the raising of tariffs on Chinese imports. It remains unclear what the current U.S. presidential administration may ultimately do with respect to any such restrictive measures, and we cannot predict whether tariffs, duties or other similar restrictions will be imposed by the U.S. upon the import of materials from China, including our items manufactured or otherwise supplied to the Company by the Joint Venture. Any such tariffs, duties, import charges or other similar restrictions on our foreign-sourced goods that we sell could substantially affect our ability to source goods at commercially attractive prices, thus having an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including by virtue of increasing our cost of goods sold or exposing us to additional capital expenses if we must find replacement manufacturing or repatriate certain production to the U.S.. Businesses and consumers might not adopt alternative energy solutions as a means for obtaining their electricity and power needs, and therefore our revenues may not increase, and we may be unable to achieve and then sustain profitability.. Onsite distributed power generation solutions, such as fuel cell, PV and wind turbine systems, which utilize our energy storage systems, provide an alternative means for obtaining electricity and are relatively new methods of obtaining electrical power that businesses may not adopt at levels sufficient to grow this part of our business. Traditional electricity distribution is based on the regulated industry model whereby businesses and consumers obtain their electricity from a government regulated utility. For alternative methods of distributed power to succeed, businesses and consumers must adopt new purchasing practices and must be willing to rely upon less traditional means of purchasing electricity. We cannot assure you that businesses and consumers will choose to utilize on-site distributed power at levels sufficient to sustain our business in this area. The development of a mass market for our products may be impacted by many factors which are out of our control, including:. 18. ·market acceptance of fuel cell, PV and wind turbine systems that incorporate our products;. ·the cost competitiveness of these systems;. ·regulatory requirements; and. ·the emergence of newer, more competitive technologies and products.. If a mass market fails to develop or develops more slowly than we anticipate, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Our business depends in part on the regulatory treatment of third-party owned solar energy systems.. Retail sales of electricity by non-utilities, such as us or our customers, face regulatory hurdles in some states and jurisdictions, including states and jurisdictions that we intend to enter where the laws and regulatory policies have not historically embraced competition to the service provided by the incumbent, vertically integrated electric utility. Some of the principal challenges pertain to whether non-customer-owned systems qualify for the same levels of rebates or other non-tax incentives available for customer-owned solar energy systems, whether third-party owned systems are eligible at all for these incentives and whether third-party owned systems are eligible for net metering and the associated significant cost savings. Furthermore, in some states and utility territories, third-parties are limited in the way that they may deliver solar energy to their customers. In many jurisdictions, laws have been interpreted to prohibit the sale of electricity pursuant to our standard PPA, in some cases, leading residential solar energy system providers to use leases in lieu of PPAs. Changes in law, reductions in, eliminations of, or additional application requirements for these benefits could reduce demand for our systems, adversely impact our access to capital and could cause us to increase the price we charge our customers.. The success of our business depends on our ability to develop and protect our intellectual property rights, which could be expensive.. Our ability to compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technologies, systems designs and manufacturing processes. While we have attempted to safeguard and maintain our proprietary rights, there can be no assurance we have been or will be completely successful in doing so. We rely on patents, trademarks and policies and procedures related to confidentiality to protect our intellectual property. However, most of our intellectual property is not covered by any patents or patent applications. Moreover, there can be no assurance that any of our pending patent applications will issue or, in the case of patents issued or to be issued, that the claims allowed are or will be sufficient to protect our technology or processes. Even if all of our patent applications are issued, our patents may be challenged or invalidated. Patent applications filed in foreign countries may be subject to laws, rules and procedures that are substantially different from those of the U.S., and any resulting foreign patents may be difficult and expensive to enforce.. While we take steps to protect our proprietary rights to the extent possible, there can be no assurance that third-parties will not know, discover or develop independently equivalent proprietary information or techniques, that they will not gain access to our trade secrets or disclose our trade secrets to the public. Therefore, we cannot guarantee that we can maintain and protect unpatented proprietary information and trade secrets. If we fail to protect our intellectual property, our planned business could be adversely affected.. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Unauthorized use of our proprietary technology could harm our business. Litigation to protect our intellectual property and other rights related to our proprietary technology can be costly and time-consuming to prosecute, and there can be no assurance that we will have the financial or other resources necessary to enforce or defend a patent infringement or proprietary rights violation action.. We may be subject to claims that we infringe the intellectual property rights of others, and unfavorable outcomes could harm our business.. Our future operations may be subject to claims, and potential litigation, arising from our alleged infringement of patents, trade secrets or copyrights owned by other third-parties. We intend to fully comply with the law in avoiding such infringements. However, we may become subject to claims of infringement, including such claims or litigation initiated by existing, better-funded competitors. We could also become involved in disputes regarding the ownership of intellectual property rights that relate to our technologies. These disputes could arise out of collaboration relationships, strategic partnerships or other relationships. Any such litigation could be expensive, take significant time and could divert management’s attention from other business concerns. Our failure to prevail in any such legal proceedings, or even the mere occurrence of such legal proceedings, could substantially affect our ability to meet our expenses and continue operations.. 19. We may engage in acquisitions that could disrupt our business, cause dilution to our shareholders and reduce our financial resources.. In the future, we may enter into transactions to acquire other businesses, products or technologies. If we do identify suitable candidates, we may not be able to make such acquisitions on favorable terms or at all. Any acquisitions we make may not strengthen our competitive position, and these transactions may be viewed negatively by customers or investors. We may decide to incur debt in connection with an acquisition or issue our Common Stock or other securities to the shareholders of the acquired company, which would reduce the percentage ownership of our existing shareholders. We could incur losses resulting from undiscovered liabilities of the acquired business that are not covered by the indemnification from the seller. In addition, we may not be able to successfully integrate the acquired personnel, technologies and operations into our existing business in an effective, timely and non-disruptive manner. Acquisitions may also divert management from day-to-day responsibilities, increase our expenses and reduce our cash available for operations and other uses. We cannot predict the number, timing or size of future acquisitions or the effect that any such transactions might have on our operating results.. We have never paid cash dividends and do not intend to do so.. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our Common Stock. We currently plan to retain any earnings to finance the growth of our business rather than to pay cash dividends. Payments of any cash dividends in the future will depend on our financial condition, results of operations and capital requirements, as well as other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. Additionally, so long as any shares of our preferred stock are outstanding, we are prohibited from paying dividends on our Common Stock.. Our warranty reserves may be inadequate to cover future warranty claims resulting in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our products are generally covered by a warranty for 12 or 18 months. We also offer extended warranty contracts to customers, which typically cover a period up to twenty years.. If our warranty reserves are inadequate to cover future warranty claims, we experience an increase in warranty claims compared with historical experience, or if the cost of servicing warranty claims is greater than expected, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Recent U.S. tax legislation may materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operation and cash flows.. Recently enacted U.S. tax legislation has significantly changed the U.S. federal income taxation of U.S. corporations. Many of these changes are effective immediately, without any transition periods or grandfathering for existing transactions. The legislation is unclear in many respects and could be subject to potential amendments and technical corrections, as well as the issuance of guidance and regulations by the Department of the Treasury and the Internal Revenue Service, any of which could lessen or increase certain adverse impacts of the legislation. In addition, it is unclear how these U.S. federal income tax changes will affect state and local taxation, which often uses federal taxable income as a starting point for computing state and local tax liabilities.. We continue to work with our tax advisors and auditors to determine the full impact that the recent tax legislation as a whole will have on us. There may be material adverse effects resulting from the legislation that we have not yet identified. While some of the changes made by the tax legislation may adversely affect us in one or more reporting periods and prospectively, other changes may be beneficial on a going forward basis. We urge our investors to consult with their legal and tax advisors with respect to such legislation and its potential effect on their investment in our Common Stock."
