[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. You should carefully consider the following risks and other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K in evaluating us and our common stock. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our operations could be affected by various risks, many of which are beyond our control. Based on current information, we believe that the following list identifies the most significant risk factors that could affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. There may be additional risks and uncertainties that adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows in the future that are not presently known, are not currently believed to be material, or are not identified below because they are common to all businesses. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. For more information, see \"Cautionary Statement\" in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. WORLDWIDE ECONOMIC AND INDUSTRY CONDITIONS MAY CAUSE DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS TO DECREASE AND MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS.. Worldwide economic and industry conditions may adversely affect our business.  Our revenue is primarily dependent upon demand from semiconductor manufacturers, which is driven by the current and anticipated demand for semiconductors and products utilizing semiconductors.  While we believe drivers for semiconductor demand, such as smartphones, cloud computing, the Internet of Things, artificial intelligence and other applications, have broadened and provide for a more stable overall industry environment, historically, the semiconductor industry has been, and may in the future be, highly cyclical with periodic significant downturns, resulting in significantly decreased expenditures by semiconductor manufacturers.  We are unable to predict the ultimate duration or severity of any future downturns for the semiconductor industry.  We have in the past experienced significant revenue deterioration and operating losses due to a severe downturn in the semiconductor industry.  The semiconductor industry is also affected by seasonal shifts in demand. Even moderate cyclicality or seasonality can cause our operating results to fluctuate significantly from one period to the next.. 11. Table of Contents. Furthermore, since we must continue to maintain a satisfactory level of engineering, research and development expenditures, continue to invest in our infrastructure and maintain the ability to respond to any significant increases in demand, if they occur, lower sales volume in periods of reduced demand can have a large impact on our profitability.  Changes in order patterns have an immediate impact on our revenues because we typically do not have significant backlog. During downturns, our revenue is reduced and there is likely to be an increase in pricing pressure and shifts in product and customer mix, all of which may affect gross margin and net income. Such fluctuations in our results could cause our stock price to decline significantly. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations may not be meaningful, and you should not rely upon them as indicators of our future performance.. OUR DEPENDENCE ON SINGLE AND LIMITED SOURCE SUPPLIERS OR AN INTERRUPTION IN OUR ORDINARY SOURCES OF SUPPLY COULD AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO MANUFACTURE OUR PRODUCTS AND HAVE AN ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.. We rely on single or limited source suppliers for raw materials, such as plastic polymers, filtration membranes, petroleum coke and other materials, which are critical to the manufacturing of our products. If we lost one of these sources, it may be difficult for us to find an alternative supplier and we would need to qualify this new source through our customers' rigorous qualification processes.  Although we seek to reduce dependence on these sole and limited source suppliers, the partial or complete loss of these sources could interrupt our manufacturing operations and result in an adverse effect on our results of operations.. At times, we have experienced a limited supply of certain raw materials, as well as the need to substitute raw materials, resulting in delays, increased costs and risks associated with qualifying products made from such new raw materials with our customers. Events such as an industry-wide increase in demand for, or the discontinuation of, raw materials used in our products could affect our ability to acquire sufficient quantities and our manufacturing operations may be interrupted.  For example, global demand for fluoropolymers increased unexpectedly in 2017 due to greater requirements from certain markets. While we were able to maintain our supply of this raw material and prevent delays in customer shipments by holding forecast reviews with our key suppliers and securing higher levels of fluoropolymers inventory, no assurances can be made that future raw materials shortages will not affect our operations. Additionally, our suppliers may not have the capacity to meet increases in our demand for raw materials, making it difficult for us to meet demand from our customers. Furthermore, prices for our raw materials can vary widely.  While we have long-term arrangements with certain key suppliers that fix our price for the purchase of certain raw materials, if the cost of our raw materials increases and we are unable to correspondingly increase the sales price of our products or find other cost savings, our profit margins will decline.. A SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT OF OUR SALES IS CONCENTRATED ON A LIMITED NUMBER OF KEY CUSTOMERS AND, THEREFORE, OUR NET SALES AND PROFITABILITY MAY MATERIALLY DECLINE IF WE LOST ONE OR MORE OF THESE CUSTOMERS.. Sales to a limited number of large customers constitute a significant portion of our overall revenue, shipments, cash flows, collections, and profitability.  Our top ten customers accounted for 47%, 45% and 44% of our net sales in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.  Our customers could stop using our products in their manufacturing processes with limited advance notice to us and suffer little or no penalty for doing so. The cancellation, reduction or deferral of purchases of our products by even a single customer could significantly reduce our revenues in any particular quarter. If we were to lose any of our significant customers, if our products are not specified for these customers' products or production processes, or if we suffer a material reduction in their purchase orders, our revenue could decline and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.  Due to the long design and development cycle and lengthy customer product qualification periods required for most of our new products, we may be unable to quickly replace these customers, if at all.. Furthermore, the semiconductor industry has been undergoing, and is expected to continue to undergo, consolidation.  If any of our customers merge or are acquired, we may experience lower overall sales from the merged or surviving companies. In addition, our principal customers also hold considerable purchasing power and may be able to negotiate requirements that result in decreased pricing, increased costs, and/or lower margins for us, and limitations on our ability to share jointly developed technology with others.. We could also lose our key customers or significant sales to our key customers because of factors beyond our control, such as a significant disruption in our customers' businesses generally or in a specific product line, a change in the manufacturing sourcing policies or practices of these customers or the timing of customer inventory adjustments. For example, our customers' aggressive management of inventory has adversely affected revenue in our SCEM segment in the past and may adversely affect future results of operations.. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO CONTINUE OUR TECHNOLOGICAL INNOVATION AND INTRODUCTION OF NEW PRODUCTS, WE WILL NOT BE ABLE TO SUCCESSFULLY COMPETE.. 12. Table of Contents. The semiconductor industry is subject to rapid technological change, changing customer requirements and frequent new product introductions. As a result, the life cycle of our products is difficult to determine. We believe that our future success will depend upon our ability to continue to develop mission-critical solutions to maximize our customers' manufacturing yields and enable higher performance of end-market materials or devices. This requires that we successfully anticipate and respond to technological changes in manufacturing processes in a cost-effective and timely manner. A failure to develop new products or enhancements to our existing products or the inability to timely manufacture and ship these products or enhancements in sufficient volume could harm our business prospects and significantly reduce our sales. In addition, if new products have reliability or quality problems, we may experience reduced orders, higher manufacturing costs, delays in acceptance and payment, additional service and warranty expense, and damage to our reputation.. COMPETITION FROM NEW OR EXISTING COMPANIES COULD HARM OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND CASH FLOW.. We operate in a highly competitive industry. We compete against many domestic and foreign companies, some of which have substantially greater manufacturing, financial, research and development, and marketing resources than we do. In addition, some of our competitors may have better-established customer relationships than we do, which may enable them to have their products specified for use more frequently and more quickly by these customers. We also face competition from smaller, regional companies, which focus on serving those customers in their same region.  Another source of competition is from the manufacturing engineering teams of our customers, who continually evaluate the benefits of internal manufacturing versus outsourcing. If we are unable to maintain our competitive position, we could experience downward pressure on prices, fewer customer orders, reduced margins, the inability to take advantage of new business opportunities and a loss of market share, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Further, we expect that existing and new competitors will improve the design of their existing products and will introduce new products with enhanced performance characteristics. The introduction of new products or more efficient production of existing products by our competitors could diminish our market share and increase pricing pressure on our products.. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO OBTAIN FUTURE BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES ASSOCIATED WITH NEW PRODUCT INITIATIVES AND RELATED INVESTMENTS, OUR REVENUE AND PROFITABILITY MAY DECLINE.. In the semiconductor market, while the development period for a product can be very long, the first company to introduce an innovative product meeting an identified customer need will often have a significant advantage over offerings of competitive products. For this reason, we may make significant cash expenditures to research, develop, engineer and market new products and make significant capital investments in technology and manufacturing capacity in advance of future business developing and without any purchase commitment from our customers. For example, to support new product and technology development, we incurred $107.0 million, $107.0 million and $105.9 million for engineering, research and development expense in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.. Following development, it may take a number of years for sales of a new product to reach a substantial level, if ever. A product concept may never progress beyond the development stage or may only achieve limited acceptance in the marketplace. If this occurs, we do not receive a direct return on our expenditures, we may not realize any indirect benefits, we may lose market share and our revenue and profitability may decline.  For example, from 2011 to 2014, our capital expenditures relating to developing the capability to manufacture shippers and FOUPs for 450 mm wafers were approximately $16.5 million.  However, major semiconductor manufacturers have announced that they would not initiate 450 mm manufacturing in the foreseeable future.  As a result, we have taken impairment charges related to certain 450 mm-related equipment and are exiting a location dedicated to 450 mm wafer handling solutions.  We cannot assure you that the new products and technology we choose to develop and market in the ordinary course of our business will be successful.. WE MAY ACQUIRE OTHER BUSINESSES, FORM JOINT VENTURES OR DIVEST BUSINESSES, WHICH COULD NEGATIVELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE.. As part of our business strategy, and as we have done in the past, we expect to address gaps in our product offerings, adjust our portfolio of businesses to meet our ongoing strategic objectives, and diversify into complementary markets through acquisitions, joint ventures or other types of collaborations. As a result, we may enter markets in which we have no or limited prior experience and may encounter difficulties in divesting businesses that no longer meet our objectives. Competition for acquiring attractive businesses in our industry is substantial. We may experience difficulty in identifying suitable acquisition candidates or in completing selected transactions at appropriate valuations, in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis or at all, and we may not realize the anticipated benefits of any such transaction. Alternatively, we may be required to undertake multiple transactions at the same time in order to take advantage of acquisition opportunities that do arise.  This could strain our ability to effectively execute and integrate these transactions. Further, we may not be able to successfully integrate any acquisitions that we do make into our existing business operations, and we could assume unknown or contingent liabilities or experience negative effects on our reported results of operations from dilutive results from operations and/or from future potential impairment of acquired assets, including goodwill, related to future acquisitions. For example, if we fail to successfully integrate the water and chemical filtration product line for microelectronics applications we acquired in 2017 from Gore, we may not meet our revenue and bottom line objectives for these. 13. Table of Contents. filtration products. We may experience difficulties in retaining key employees or customers of an acquired business, and our management's attention could be diverted from other business issues.. MANUFACTURING INTERRUPTIONS OR DELAYS, FAILURES TO ACCURATELY FORECAST CUSTOMER DEMAND OR TO RESPOND TO SHIFTS IN DEMAND, AND THE RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE MANUFACTURE OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS, IN PARTICULAR SPECIALTY CHEMICALS, COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.. Our manufacturing processes are complex and require the use of expensive and technologically sophisticated equipment and materials. These processes are frequently modified to improve manufacturing yields and product quality. We have, on occasion, experienced manufacturing difficulties, such as occasional critical equipment breakdowns or the introduction of impurities in the manufacturing process, which could cause lower manufacturing yields, make our products unmarketable and/or delay deliveries to customers. In addition, modification to the manufacturing process of our products may require that the affected product be re-qualified by our customers, which can increase our costs and delay our ability to sell this product to our customers.  We could experience these or other manufacturing difficulties, which might result in a loss of customers and exposure to warranty and product liability claims.. A number of our product lines are manufactured at only one or two facilities in different countries, and any disruption could impact our sales until another facility could commence or expand production of such products.  We have in the past, we may in the future, move the manufacture of certain product lines from one of our plants to another, usually to enhance efficiency and cost effectiveness of our manufacturing operations and to better serve customers located in various countries. Production may be disrupted and we may not be able to meet customer orders if we fail to efficiently and effectively transfer and re-establish the manufacturing processes in the destination plant.  This may cause us to lose credibility with our customers and harm our business. Even if we successfully move our manufacturing processes, there is no assurance that we will achieve anticipated cost savings and efficiencies.. Our ability to increase sales of our products, particularly our capital equipment products, depends in part upon our ability to ramp up our manufacturing capacity for such products in a timely manner, often in as little as a few months, and to quickly mobilize our supply chain. If we are unable to expand our manufacturing capacity on a timely basis, manage such expansion effectively or obtain an increase in required raw materials from our supply chain, our customers could seek such products from our competitors, and our market share could be reduced. Because demand shifts in the semiconductor industry are rapid and difficult to foresee, we may not be able to increase capacity quickly enough to respond to any such increase in demand.. We typically operate our business on a just-in-time shipment basis with a modest level of backlog and we order supplies and plan production based on internal forecasts of demand. We have, in the past, and may again in the future, fail to accurately forecast demand for our products, in terms of both volume and product type. This has led to, and may in the future lead to, delays in product shipments, disappointment of customer expectations, or, alternatively, an increased risk of excess and obsolescence of our inventory. If we fail to accurately forecast demand for our products, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected.. Our operations involve, and we are exposed to the risks associated with, the use and the manufacture of hazardous materials, in particular, specialty chemical manufacturing, and the related storage and transportation of raw materials, products and waste in our manufacturing facilities or distribution centers.  In addition, a failure of one of our products at a customer site could interrupt the business operations of the customer. For example, while we believe that our SDS and VAC delivery systems are the safest available in the industry, as with any products involved in the transport and storage of toxic gases, if a leak were to occur during transport or during storage at our customers' location, serious damage could result including injury or death to any person exposed to those toxic gases creating significant product liability for us.  There can be no assurance that our insurance will be adequate to satisfy any such liabilities and our financial results or financial condition could be adversely affected.. LOSS OF OUR KEY PERSONNEL, WHO HAVE SIGNIFICANT EXPERIENCE IN THE SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY AND TECHNOLOGICAL EXPERTISE, COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS, WHILE OUR INABILITY TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN NEW QUALIFIED PERSONNEL COULD INHIBIT OUR ABILITY TO OPERATE AND GROW OUR BUSINESS SUCCESSFULLY.. Many of our key personnel have significant experience in the semiconductor industry and deep technical expertise. The loss of the services of one or several of our key employees or an inability to attract, train and retain qualified and skilled employees, specifically research and development and engineering personnel, could inhibit our ability to operate and grow our business successfully. As the semiconductor industry has experienced growth in recent years, the competition between industry participants for qualified talent, particularly those with significant experience in the semiconductor industry, has intensified.  As a result, the difficulty and costs associated with attracting and retaining key employees has risen and may rise further in the future rise.. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO PROTECT OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND TECHNOLOGY, IF OUR COMPETITORS WERE TO DEVELOP SIMILAR OR SUPERIOR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY OR. 14. Table of Contents. TECHNOLOGY, OR, IF OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY OR TECHNOLOGY VIOLATE THIRD-PARTY RIGHTS, OUR BUSINESS AND PROSPECTS COULD BE HARMED.. Our future success and competitive position depend in part upon our ability to obtain and maintain proprietary technology. We rely, in part, on patent, trade secret and trademark law to protect many of our major product platforms. We have obtained a number of patents relating to our products and have filed applications for additional patents. We cannot assure you that any of our pending patent applications will be approved, in key jurisdictions or at all, that we will develop additional proprietary technology that is patentable, that any patents owned by or issued to us will provide us with competitive advantages or that these patents will not be challenged, invalidated, circumvented, and rendered unenforceable or otherwise compromised by third parties. In addition, if we do not obtain intellectual property protection in the international jurisdictions we serve, our competitiveness in these markets could be significantly impaired, which could limit our growth and future revenue.  While we routinely enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and with third parties to protect our proprietary information and technology, these agreements may not be enforceable or they may be breached by such employees or third parties, and we may not have adequate remedies for such breaches.  Furthermore, our confidential and proprietary information and technology could be independently developed by or become otherwise known to third parties and third parties could design around our patents.. Competitors may misappropriate our intellectual property, and disputes as to ownership of intellectual property may arise. We may institute litigation in order to enforce our patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could negatively affect our sales, profitability and prospects regardless of whether we are able to successfully enforce our rights. For example, in January 2011, we settled multiple patent litigations with Pall Corporation (which was acquired by Danaher Corporation in 2015). We prosecuted and defended these cases vigorously and incurred substantial costs in pursuing them. It may become necessary for us to initiate other costly patent litigation against our competitors in order to protect and/or perfect our intellectual property rights. We cannot predict how any existing or future litigation will be resolved or what its impact will be on us.. Our commercial success depends, in part, on our ability to avoid infringing or misappropriating any patents or other proprietary rights owned by third parties. If we are found to infringe or misappropriate a third party's patent or other proprietary rights, we could be required to pay damages to such third party, alter our products or processes, obtain a license from the third party or cease activities utilizing such proprietary rights, including making or selling products utilizing such proprietary rights. If we are required to obtain a license from a third party, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so on commercially favorable terms or at all.. OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY CLIMATE CHANGE OR NATURAL CATASTROPHES IN THE LOCATIONS IN WHICH WE, OUR CUSTOMERS OR OUR SUPPLIERS OPERATE, SUCH AS THE MARCH 2011 EARTHQUAKE AND TSUNAMI IN JAPAN, HURRICANE HARVEY IN EAST TEXAS, HURRICANE IRMA IN FLORIDA IN 2017 AND THE WILDFIRES IN COLORADO SPRINGS, COLORADO AND CALIFORNIA IN 2012 AND 2017.. We have manufacturing and other operations in locations subject to severe weather and natural catastrophes which could disrupt operations, such as typhoons in Taiwan and China, earthquakes and tsunamis in Japan in 2011, hurricanes in east Texas (Hurricane Harvey) and in Florida (Hurricane Irma), each in 2017, and wildfires in Colorado Springs, Colorado in 2012 and in California in 2017. In addition, our suppliers and customers also have operations in such locations. A natural disaster that results in a prolonged disruption to our operations, or our customers' or suppliers' operations, may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Also, climate change poses both regulatory and physical risks that could harm our results of operations or affect the way we conduct our businesses.  While our business continuity plans enabled us to mitigate the impact to our operations of the events described above, there can be no assurance that such plans will be effective in the future or that such catastrophes will not disrupt our ability to manufacture and deliver products to our customers, resulting in an adverse impact on our business and results of operations.. WE MAY BE SUBJECT TO INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SYSTEM FAILURES, NETWORK DISRUPTIONS AND BREACHES IN DATA SECURITY, WHICH COULD DAMAGE OUR REPUTATION AND ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND CASH FLOWS.. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including our intellectual property, confidential information, proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners and personally identifiable information of our employees in our data centers and on our networks. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations. Information technology system failures, network disruptions and breaches of data security from cyber-attacks, employee error or social media use on our computers or through failure of our internet service providers and other cloud computing service providers to successfully secure their own systems could disrupt our operations, cause customer communication and order management issues, cause the unintentional disclosure of customer, employee and proprietary information, and cause disruption in our transaction processing, which could affect our reputation and reporting of financial results.. 15. Table of Contents. While our management has implemented network security procedures, virus protection software, intrusion prevention systems, access control, emergency recovery processes and internal control measures, there can be no assurance that a system failure or data security breach will not occur and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition results of operations and cash flows.. WITH A SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT OF OUR SALES AND MANUFACTURING ACTIVITY OCCURRING OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES, WE ARE EXPOSED TO THE RISKS OF OPERATING A GLOBAL BUSINESS.. Sales to customers outside the United States accounted for approximately 79%, 78% and 77% of our net sales in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. We anticipate that international sales will continue to account for a majority of our net sales. In addition, a number of our key domestic customers derive a significant portion of their revenues from sales in international markets. We also manufacture a significant portion of our products outside the United States and are dependent on international suppliers for many of our parts and raw materials. We intend to continue to pursue opportunities in both sales and manufacturing internationally. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks and potential costs that could adversely affect our revenue and profitability, including:. • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements that could impose additional costs on our operations or limit our ability to operate our business;. • challenges in hiring and integrating workers in different countries;. • management of a diverse workforce with different experience levels, languages, cultures, customs, business practices and worker expectations, along with differing employment practices and labor issues;. • maintenance of appropriate business processes, procedures and internal controls, and compliance with, legal, environmental, health and safety, anti-corruption and other regulatory requirements;. • development of relationships with local customers, suppliers and governments;. • fluctuating pricing and availability of raw materials and supply chain interruptions;. • expense and complexity of complying with U.S. and foreign import and export regulations, including the ability to obtain required import and export licenses;. • liability for foreign taxes assessed at rates higher than those applicable to our domestic operations;. • unanticipated government actions, such as trade wars, or laws, rules, regulations and policies that favor domestic companies over nondomestic companies, including customer or government efforts to provide for the development and growth of local competitors;. • customer or government efforts to encourage operations and sourcing in a particular country, such as Korea and China; and. • political and economic instability and uncertainty.. In the past, we have incurred costs or experienced disruptions due to the factors described above and we expect to do so in the future. For example, in response to recent explosions at gas storage facilities in Singapore and China, the import of gas canisters and chemicals viewed as dangerous have come under increased regulatory scrutiny by governmental officials. As a result, we have established partnerships with local suppliers.  However, this increased regulation may impair the ability of our SCEM segment to import those products into Singapore and China and may cause us to lose sales.  Also, in the past, our operations in Asia, and particularly South Korea, Taiwan and Japan, have been negatively impacted as a result of regional economic instability. There have historically been strained relations between China and Taiwan and there are continuing tensions between North Korea and other countries, including South Korea and the United States. Any adverse developments in those relations could significantly disrupt the worldwide production of semiconductors, which may lead to reduced sales of our products.. WE ARE SUBJECT TO A VARIETY OF ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS AND REGULATIONS THAT COULD CAUSE US TO INCUR SIGNIFICANT LIABILITIES AND EXPENSES.. Failure to comply with the wide variety of federal, state, local and non-U.S. regulatory requirements relating to the release, use, storage, treatment, transportation, discharge, disposal and remediation, of, and human exposure to, hazardous chemicals, which have tended to become stricter over time, could result in future liabilities or the suspension of production or shipment. For example, the Frank R. Lautenberg Chemical Safety for the 21st Century Act modified the Toxic Control Substances Act, or TSCA, by requiring the Environmental Protection Agency, or the EPA, to prioritize and evaluate the environmental and health risks of existing chemicals and provides EPA with greater authority to regulate chemicals posing unreasonable risks. According to this statute, the EPA is required to make an affirmative finding that a new chemical will not pose an unreasonable risk before such chemical can go into production. As a result, TSCA has been updated so that it operates in a similar fashion to the Registration, Evaluation, and Authorization of Chemicals, or REACH, legislation in Europe. Regulations similar to REACH have been enacted in South Korea and Taiwan. These laws and regulations, among others, increase the complexity and costs of transporting our products from the country in which they are manufactured, to the location of our customer.  Any further changes to these and similar regulations in the countries in which we operate or sell into could restrict our ability to expand our facilities or to build or acquire new facilities, require us to acquire costly control equipment, cause us to incur expenses associated with remediation of contamination, modify. 16. Table of Contents. our manufacture or shipping processes, or otherwise increase our cost of doing business and have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The nature of our business exposes us to risk of liability for environmental contamination if hazardous materials are released into the environment, which could result in substantial losses, reputational harm, increase in our insurance cost or otherwise adversely impact our results of operations.. CHANGES IN TAXATION OR ADVERSE TAX RULINGS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.. We have facilities in many foreign countries and, as a result, are subject to taxation at various rates and audit by a number of taxing authorities. Our results of operations could be affected by changes in applicable tax rates or audits by the taxing authorities in countries in which we operate or in the countries from which we purchase raw materials, changes in laws and regulations governing calculation and location of earned profit and taxation thereof, changes in laws and regulations affecting our ability to realize deferred tax assets on our balance sheet and changes in laws and regulations relating to the repatriation of cash into the United States. Each quarter we forecast our tax liability based on our forecast of our performance for the year. If that performance forecast changes, our forecasted tax liability may change.. We have undertaken a number of complex internal reorganizations of our foreign subsidiaries in order to rationalize and streamline our foreign operations, focus our management efforts on certain local opportunities and take advantage of favorable business conditions in certain localities. While we have exercised diligence in undertaking this internal reorganization, there can be no assurance that this reorganization, or any future internal reorganization, will not result in adverse tax consequences in the United States or in foreign countries in which we have operations.  This could adversely impact our profitability from foreign operations and result in a material reduction in our results of operations.. The U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the \"Tax Cuts and Jobs Act\") significantly changes how the U.S. taxes corporations. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act requires complex computations to be performed that were not previously required in U.S. tax law, significant judgments to be made in interpretation of the provisions of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act and significant estimates in calculations, and the preparation and analysis of information not previously relevant or regularly produced. The U.S. Treasury Department, the IRS, and other standard-setting bodies could interpret or issue guidance on how provisions of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act will be applied or otherwise administered that is different from our interpretation. As we complete our analysis of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, collect and prepare necessary data, and interpret any additional guidance, we may make adjustments to provisional amounts that we have recorded that may materially impact our provision for income taxes in the period in which the adjustments are made.. FLUCTUATIONS IN THE VALUE OF THE U.S. DOLLAR IN RELATION TO OTHER CURRENCIES MAY LEAD TO LOWER NET INCOME AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY OR MAY CAUSE US TO RAISE PRICES, WHICH COULD RESULT IN REDUCED NET SALES.. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our net sales, results of operations and shareholders' equity. Foreign currency fluctuations against the U.S. dollar could require us to increase prices to foreign customers, which could result in lower net sales by us to such customers. Alternatively, if we do not adjust the prices for our products in response to foreign currency fluctuations, our profitability could decline. In addition, sales made by our foreign subsidiaries are generally denominated in the currency of the country in which these products are sold, and the currency we receive in payment for such sales could be less valuable at the time of receipt versus the time of sale as a result of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.. VOLATILITY IN THE GLOBAL ECONOMY COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS.. Financial markets in the United States, Europe and Asia have experienced extreme disruption in the recent past.  Such disruption included, among other things, volatility in securities prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of sovereign debt, declining valuation of certain investments, declines in consumer confidence, declines in economic growth, volatility in unemployment rates, and uncertainty about economic stability. Such conditions have had a significant adverse impact on our industry, our financial condition and results of operations. There may be further changes in the global economy, which could lead to further challenges in our business and negatively impact our financial results. For example, the U.K. vote in favor of leaving the European Union may cause instability and uncertainty in European economies and may negatively impact the outlook for the global economy.  Tightness of credit in financial markets could adversely affect the ability of our customers and suppliers to obtain financing for significant purchases and operations and could result in a decrease in orders and spending for our products and services. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of any disruption in regional or global financial markets and adverse economic conditions and the effects they may have on our business and financial condition. If uncertain economic conditions return or deteriorate, our business and results of operations could be further materially and adversely affected.. 17. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness. WE HAVE A SUBSTANTIAL AMOUNT OF INDEBTEDNESS, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL HEALTH AND OUR ABILITY TO OBTAIN FINANCING IN THE FUTURE, REACT TO CHANGES IN OUR BUSINESS AND MAKE PAYMENTS ON THE INDEBTEDNESS.. As of December 31, 2017, we have approximately $683.9 million of indebtedness outstanding, including our 4.625% senior unsecured notes due April 1, 2026 (the \"Notes\") and our senior secured term loan facility due 2021 (the \"Term Loan\").  In addition, we have approximately $75 million of unutilized capacity under our senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility, which is subject to a borrowing base (the \"ABL Facility\").. Our high level of debt could have important consequences, including:. • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to the Notes, the Term Loan and the ABL Facility;. • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes;. • requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow to be dedicated to debt service payments instead of other purposes, thereby reducing the amount of cash flow available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes;. • increasing our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions;. • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings, including borrowings under the Term Loan and the ABL Facility, include variable interest rates;. • limiting our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in the industry in which we compete;. • preventing us from raising funds necessary to repurchase all Notes tendered to us upon the occurrence of certain change of control repurchase events, which could constitute a default under the indenture governing the Notes;. • placing us at a disadvantage compared to other, less leveraged competitors or competitors with comparable debt at more favorable interest rates; and. • increasing our cost of borrowing.. In addition, the indenture that governs the Notes and the credit agreements governing our Term Loan and our ABL Facility contain restrictive covenants that will limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of substantially all of our debt.. DESPITE OUR CURRENT LEVEL OF INDEBTEDNESS, WE MAY STILL BE ABLE TO INCUR SUBSTANTIALLY MORE DEBT, WHICH COULD FURTHER EXACERBATE THE RISKS TO OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION DESCRIBED ABOVE AND PREVENT US FROM FULFILLING OUR OBLIGATIONS UNDER OUR EXISTING INDEBTEDNESS.. We may incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. Although the indenture that governs the Notes and the credit agreements governing our Term Loan and our ABL Facility contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, such as indebtedness to finance working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions, or for other purposes, and the additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. For example, our Term Loan provides that we have the right to request additional loans and commitments, and to the extent that the aggregate amount of such additional loans and commitments exceeds $225 million, the incurrence thereof will be subject to our secured net leverage ratio being less than a specified ratio, or in the case of unsecured loans or other unsecured debt, or loans or other debt secured by junior liens, our total net leverage ratio being less than a specified ratio. If we incur any additional indebtedness that ranks equally with the Notes, subject to collateral arrangements, the holders of that debt will be entitled to share ratably with the holders of the Notes and the lenders under the Term Loan and the ABL Facility in any proceeds distributed in connection with any insolvency, liquidation, reorganization, dissolution or other winding up of our Company. These restrictions also will not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness. In addition, the indenture governing the Notes does not limit the Company's ability to incur unsecured indebtedness and the restrictions in the indenture on our ability to incur additional secured indebtedness is subject to a number of significant exceptions and qualifications and the amount of such secured indebtedness could be substantial.  Further, although the indenture governing the Notes limits the incurrence of indebtedness by a non-guarantor subsidiary unless such subsidiary also guarantees the Notes, such limitation is subject to a number of significant exceptions and qualifications and the amount of indebtedness incurred in compliance with the indenture could be substantial.  If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that the Company now faces could intensify.. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO GENERATE SUFFICIENT CASH TO SERVICE OUR INDEBTEDNESS AND MAY BE FORCED TO TAKE OTHER ACTIONS, WHICH MAY NOT BE SUCCESSFUL, TO SATISFY OUR OBLIGATIONS UNDER OUR INDEBTEDNESS.. 18. Table of Contents. We may be unable to maintain a level of cash flow from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness.  Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance and the condition of the capital markets, which are subject to prevailing economic, industry and competitive conditions, as well as certain financial, business, legislative, political regulatory and other factors beyond our control. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems, be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, dispose of material assets or operations, seek additional debt or equity capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness, and our financial position and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. We may not be able to effect any such alternative measures on commercially reasonable terms or at all and, even if successful, those alternative actions may not allow us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. Our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from those dispositions is restricted by the agreements governing our indebtedness and we may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain proceeds in an amount sufficient to meet any debt service obligations then due.. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and holders of the Notes could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable, the lenders under the Term Loan and the ABL Facility could terminate their commitments to loan money, our secured lenders could foreclose against the assets securing their borrowings and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.. THE TERMS OF THE CREDIT AGREEMENTS GOVERNING OUR TERM LOAN AND OUR ABL FACILITY RESTRICT OUR CURRENT AND FUTURE OPERATIONS, PARTICULARLY OUR ABILITY TO RESPOND TO CHANGES OR TO CONDUCT OUR BUSINESS OR RAISE ADDITIONAL FUNDS.. The credit agreements governing our Term Loan and our ABL Facility contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interest, including restrictions on our ability to:. • incur certain liens;. • incur additional indebtedness and guarantee indebtedness;. • pay dividends or make other distributions in respect of, or repurchase or redeem, capital stock;. • prepay, redeem or repurchase certain debt;. • make investments, loans, advances and acquisitions;. • sell or otherwise dispose of assets, including capital stock of our subsidiaries;. • enter into transactions with affiliates;. • alter the businesses we conduct;. • enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends; and. • consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets.. In addition, the restrictive covenants in the credit agreement governing our ABL Facility may, at certain times, require us to maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio. Our ability to meet this financial ratio can be affected by events beyond our control.. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of some or all of our indebtedness, which could lead to bankruptcy, reorganization or insolvency.. These restrictions may affect our ability to grow in accordance with our plans and could adversely affect our ability to:. • finance our operations;. • make needed capital expenditures;. • make strategic acquisitions or investments or enter into joint ventures;. • withstand a future downturn in our business, the industry or the economy in general;. • compete effectively and engage in business activities, including future opportunities, that may be in our best interest; and. • plan for or react to market conditions or otherwise execute our business strategies.. Risks Related to Owning our Common Stock. THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK HAS BEEN VOLATILE IN THE PAST AND MAY BE VOLATILE IN THE FUTURE.. The price of our common stock has been volatile in the past and may be volatile in the future. In 2017, the closing price of our stock on The NASDAQ Global Select Market, or NASDAQ, ranged from a low of $18.10 to a high of $32.80, and, as in past years, the price of our common stock may show greater volatility.. 19. Table of Contents. The trading price of our common stock is subject to significant volatility in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control or may be unrelated to our operating results, and which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, including the following: the failure to meet the published expectations of securities analysts; changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; press releases or announcements by, or changes in market values of, comparable companies; volatility in the markets for high-technology stocks, general stock market price and volume fluctuations, which are particularly common among securities of high-technology companies; stock market price and volume fluctuations attributable to inconsistent trading volume levels; the public perception of equity values of publicly traded companies and the other risks and uncertainties described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other filings with the SEC. Future decreases in our stock price may adversely impact our ability to raise sufficient additional capital in the future, if needed.. THERE CAN BE NO ASSURANCE THAT WE WILL CONTINUE TO DECLARE CASH DIVIDENDS OR REPURCHASE OUR SHARES AT ALL OR IN ANY PARTICULAR AMOUNTS. Our Board of Directors initiated a quarterly dividend in November 2017. Our intent to continue to pay quarterly dividends and to repurchase our shares is subject to capital availability and periodic determinations by our Board of Directors that such actions are in the best interest of our stockholders and are in compliance with all laws and applicable agreements. Future dividends and share repurchases may also be affected by, among other factors, our views on potential future capital requirements for investments in acquisitions and the funding of our research and development; legal risks; changes in federal and state income tax laws or corporate laws; contractual restrictions, such as financial or operating covenants in our debt arrangements; availability of onshore cash flow; and changes to our business model. Our dividend payments and share repurchases may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends or repurchase shares at all or in any particular amounts. A reduction or suspension in our dividend payments could have a negative effect on the price of our common stock.. PROVISIONS IN OUR CHARTER DOCUMENTS AND DELAWARE LAW MAY DELAY OR PREVENT AN ACQUISITION OF US, WHICH COULD DECREASE THE VALUE OF YOUR SHARES.. Our restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws and Delaware law contain provisions that could make it harder for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions include limitations on actions by our stockholders by written consent.. Our restated certificate of incorporation makes us subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. In general, Section 203 prohibits publicly held Delaware corporations to which it applies from engaging in a \"business combination\" with an \"interested stockholder\" for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. This provision could discourage others from bidding for our shares of common stock and could, as a result, reduce the likelihood of an increase in the price of our common stock that would otherwise occur if a bidder sought to buy our common stock.. Our restated certificate of incorporation provides that our board of directors is authorized to issue from time to time, without further stockholder approval, up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to fix and designate the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of the preferred stock, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, redemption rights and terms of redemption and liquidation preferences. Such shares of preferred stock could have preferences over our common stock with respect to dividends and liquidation rights. Our issuance of preferred stock may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. Our issuance of preferred stock could decrease the amount of earnings and assets available for distribution to the holders of common stock or could adversely affect the rights and powers, including voting rights, of the holders of common stock. The issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of decreasing the market price of our common stock.. YOUR PERCENTAGE OWNERSHIP IN US MAY BE DILUTED BY FUTURE ISSUANCES OF CAPITAL STOCK, WHICH COULD REDUCE YOUR INFLUENCE OVER MATTERS ON WHICH STOCKHOLDERS VOTE.. Subject to applicable NASDAQ standards, our board of directors has the authority, without action or vote of our stockholders, to issue all or any part of our authorized but unissued shares. Issuances of common stock or the exercise of employee stock options would dilute your percentage ownership interest, which will have the effect of reducing your influence over matters on which our stockholders vote. In addition, we may issue substantial quantities of our common stock in order to effect acquisitions which would also dilute your ownership interest. If the issuances are made at prices that reflect a discount from the then current trading price of our common stock, your interest in the book value of our common stock might be diluted."
