[1] "ITEM 1A.  Risk Factors. Our business and operations are subject to many risks.  The risks described below may not be the only risks we face, as our business and operations may also be subject to risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently believe are immaterial.  If any of the events or circumstances described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected and the trading price of our common stock could decline.  The following risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information contained herein, including the consolidated financial statements and the related notes.  Unless the context requires otherwise, \"we,\" \"us,\" \"our\" and \"EOG\" refer to EOG Resources, Inc. and its subsidiaries.. Crude oil, natural gas and NGL prices are volatile, and a substantial and extended decline in commodity prices can have a material and adverse effect on us.. Prices for crude oil and natural gas (including prices for natural gas liquids (NGLs) and condensate) fluctuate widely. Among the factors that can or could cause these price fluctuations are:. • domestic and worldwide supplies of crude oil, NGLs and natural gas;. • the actions of other crude oil exporting nations, including the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries;. • domestic and international drilling activity;. • the price and quantity of imported and exported crude oil, NGLs and natural gas;. • the level of consumer demand;. • weather conditions and changes in weather patterns;. • the availability, proximity and capacity of appropriate transportation facilities, gathering, processing and compression facilities and refining facilities;. • worldwide economic and political conditions, including political instability or armed conflict in oil and gas producing regions;. • the price and availability of, and demand for, competing energy sources, including alternative energy sources;. • the nature and extent of governmental regulation, including environmental regulation, regulation of derivatives transactions and hedging activities, tax laws and regulations and laws and regulations with respect to the import and export of crude oil, natural gas and related commodities;. • the level and effect of trading in commodity futures markets, including trading by commodity price speculators and others; and. 14. • the effect of worldwide energy conservation measures and alternative fuel requirements.. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2014 and continuing through 2016, crude oil prices substantially declined.  In addition, natural gas and NGL prices began to decline substantially in the second quarter of 2014, and such lower prices continued during 2016.  While crude oil, natural gas and NGL prices improved notably during 2017, the above-described factors and the volatility of commodity prices make it difficult to predict future crude oil, natural gas and NGL prices.  As a result, there can be no assurance of further commodity price increases, nor can there be any assurance that current commodity prices will be sustained or that the prices for crude oil, natural gas and/or NGLs will not again decline.. Our cash flows and results of operations depend to a great extent on prevailing commodity prices.  Accordingly, substantial and extended declines in commodity prices can materially and adversely affect the amount of cash flows we have available for our capital expenditures and other operating expenses, our ability to access the credit and capital markets and our results of operations.. Lower commodity prices can also reduce the amount of crude oil, natural gas and NGLs that we can produce economically.  Substantial declines in the prices of these commodities can render uneconomic a significant portion of our exploration, development and exploitation projects, resulting in our having to make significant downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves.  In addition, significant prolonged decreases in commodity prices may cause the expected future cash flows from our properties to fall below their respective net book values, which will require us to write down the value of our properties.  Such reserve write-downs and asset impairments could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial position and, in turn, the trading price of our common stock.. In fact, the substantial declines in crude oil, natural gas, and NGL prices that began in 2014 and continued in 2015 and through 2016 materially and adversely affected the amount of cash flows we had available for our capital expenditures and other operating expenses and our results of operations during fiscal years 2015 and 2016.  Such declines also adversely affected the trading price of our common stock.. If commodity prices decline from current levels for an extended period of time, our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations will be adversely affected and we may be limited in our ability to maintain our current level of dividends on our common stock.  In addition, we may be required to incur impairment charges and/or make significant additional downward adjustments to our proved reserve estimates.  As a result, our financial condition and results of operations and the trading price of our common stock may be adversely affected.. Drilling crude oil and natural gas wells is a high-risk activity and subjects us to a variety of risks that we cannot control.. Drilling crude oil and natural gas wells, including development wells, involves numerous risks, including the risk that we may not encounter commercially productive crude oil and natural gas reserves (including \"dry holes\").  As a result, we may not recover all or any portion of our investment in new wells.. Specifically, we often are uncertain as to the future cost or timing of drilling, completing and operating wells, and our drilling operations and those of our third-party operators may be curtailed, delayed or canceled, the cost of such operations may increase and/or our results of operations and cash flows from such operations may be impacted, as a result of a variety of factors, including:. • unexpected drilling conditions;. • title problems;. • pressure or irregularities in formations;. • equipment failures or accidents;. • adverse weather conditions, such as winter storms, flooding, tropical storms and hurricanes, and changes in weather patterns;. • compliance with, or changes in, environmental, health and safety laws and regulations relating to air emissions, hydraulic fracturing, access to and use of water, disposal of produced water, drilling fluids and other wastes, laws and regulations imposing conditions or restrictions on drilling and completion operations and on the transportation of crude oil and natural gas, and other laws and regulations, such as tax laws and regulations;. • the availability and timely issuance of required federal, state, tribal and other permits and licenses, which may be affected by (among other things) government shutdowns or other suspensions of, or delays in, government services;. • the availability of, costs associated with and terms of contractual arrangements for properties, including mineral licenses and leases, pipelines, crude oil hauling trucks and qualified drivers and facilities and equipment to gather, process, compress, transport and market crude oil, natural gas and related commodities; and. 15. • the costs of, or shortages or delays in the availability of, drilling rigs, hydraulic fracturing services, pressure pumping equipment and supplies, tubular materials, water, sand, disposal facilities, qualified personnel and other necessary facilities, equipment, materials, supplies and services.. Our failure to recover our investment in wells, increases in the costs of our drilling operations or those of our third-party operators, and/or curtailments, delays or cancellations of our drilling operations or those of our third-party operators, in each case, due to any of the above factors or other factors, may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.  For related discussion of the risks and potential losses and liabilities inherent in our crude oil and natural gas operations generally, see the immediately following risk factor.. Our crude oil and natural gas operations and supporting activities and operations involve many risks and expose us to potential losses and liabilities, and insurance may not fully protect us against these risks and potential losses and liabilities.. Our crude oil and natural gas operations and supporting activities and operations are subject to all of the risks associated with exploring and drilling for, and producing, gathering, processing, compressing and transporting, crude oil and natural gas, including the risks of:. • well blowouts and cratering;. • loss of well control;. • crude oil spills, natural gas leaks and pipeline ruptures;. • pipe failures and casing collapses;. • uncontrollable flows of crude oil, natural gas, formation water or drilling fluids;. • releases of chemicals, wastes or pollutants;. • adverse weather conditions, such as winter storms, flooding, tropical storms and hurricanes, and other natural disasters;. • fires and explosions;. • terrorism, vandalism and physical, electronic and cyber security breaches;. • formations with abnormal or unexpected pressures;. • leaks or spills in connection with, or associated with, the gathering, processing, compression and transportation of crude oil and natural gas; and. • malfunctions of, or damage to, gathering, processing, compression and transportation facilities and equipment and other facilities and equipment utilized in support of our crude oil and natural gas operations.. If any of these events occur, we could incur losses, liabilities and other additional costs as a result of:. • injury or loss of life;. • damage to, or destruction of, property, facilities, equipment and crude oil and natural gas reservoirs;. • pollution or other environmental damage;. • regulatory investigations and penalties as well as clean-up and remediation responsibilities and costs;. • suspension or interruption of our operations, including due to injunction;. • repairs necessary to resume operations; and. • compliance with laws and regulations enacted as a result of such events.. We maintain insurance against many, but not all, such losses and liabilities in accordance with what we believe are customary industry practices and in amounts and at costs that we believe to be prudent and commercially practicable.  The occurrence of any of these events and any losses or liabilities incurred as a result of such events, if uninsured or in excess of our insurance coverage, would reduce the funds available to us for our operations and could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 16. Our ability to sell and deliver our crude oil and natural gas production could be materially and adversely affected if adequate gathering, processing, compression and transportation facilities and equipment are unavailable.. The sale of our crude oil and natural gas production depends on a number of factors beyond our control, including the availability, proximity and capacity of, and costs associated with, gathering, processing, compression and transportation facilities and equipment owned by third parties.  These facilities may be temporarily unavailable to us due to market conditions, regulatory reasons, mechanical reasons or other factors or conditions, and may not be available to us in the future on terms we consider acceptable, if at all.  In particular, in certain newer plays, the capacity of gathering, processing, compression and transportation facilities and equipment may not be sufficient to accommodate potential production from existing and new wells.  In addition, lack of financing, construction and permitting delays, permitting costs and regulatory or other constraints could limit or delay the construction, manufacture or other acquisition of new gathering, processing, compression and transportation facilities and equipment by third parties or us, and we may experience delays or increased costs in accessing the pipelines, gathering systems or rail systems necessary to transport our production to points of sale or delivery.. Any significant change in market or other conditions affecting gathering, processing, compression or transportation facilities and equipment or the availability of these facilities, including due to our failure or inability to obtain access to these facilities and equipment on terms acceptable to us or at all, could materially and adversely affect our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations.. If we fail to acquire or find sufficient additional reserves over time, our reserves and production will decline from their current levels.. The rate of production from crude oil and natural gas properties generally declines as reserves are produced.  Except to the extent that we conduct successful exploration, exploitation and development activities, acquire additional properties containing reserves or, through engineering studies, identify additional behind-pipe zones or secondary recovery reserves, our reserves will decline as they are produced.  Maintaining our production of crude oil and natural gas at, or increasing our production from, current levels, is, therefore, highly dependent upon our level of success in acquiring or finding additional reserves.  To the extent we are unsuccessful in acquiring or finding additional reserves, our future cash flows and results of operations and, in turn, the trading price of our common stock could be materially and adversely affected.. We incur certain costs to comply with government regulations, particularly regulations relating to environmental protection and safety, and could incur even greater costs in the future.. Our crude oil and natural gas operations and supporting activities are regulated extensively by federal, state, tribal and local governments and regulatory agencies, both domestically and in the foreign countries in which we do business, and are subject to interruption or termination by governmental and regulatory authorities based on environmental, health, safety or other considerations.  Moreover, we have incurred and will continue to incur costs in our efforts to comply with the requirements of environmental, health, safety and other regulations.  Further, the regulatory environment could change in ways that we cannot predict and that might substantially increase our costs of compliance and, in turn, materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Specifically, as a current or past owner or lessee and operator of crude oil and natural gas properties, we are subject to various federal, state, tribal, local and foreign regulations relating to the discharge of materials into, and the protection of, the environment.  These regulations may, among other things, impose liability on us for the cost of pollution cleanup resulting from current or past operations, subject us to liability for pollution damages and require suspension or cessation of operations in affected areas.  Changes in, or additions to, these regulations could lead to increased operating and compliance costs and, in turn, materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Local, state, federal and international regulatory bodies have been increasingly focused on greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and climate change issues in recent years.  For example, we are subject to the United States (U.S.) Environmental Protection Agency's (U.S. EPA) rule requiring annual reporting of GHG emissions.  In addition, in May 2016, the U.S. EPA issued regulations that require operators to reduce methane emissions and emissions of volatile organic compounds from new, modified and reconstructed crude oil and natural gas wells and equipment located at natural gas production gathering and booster stations, gas processing plants and natural gas transmission compressor stations.  In June 2017, the U.S. EPA proposed to stay certain requirements of that rule for two years.  In December 2015, the U.S. participated in the 21st Conference of the Parties of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Paris, France.  The Paris Agreement (adopted at the conference) calls for nations to undertake efforts with respect to global temperatures and GHG emissions.  The Paris Agreement went into effect on November 4, 2016.  However, in June 2017, the U.S. President indicated that the U.S. will withdraw from the Paris Agreement.. 17. It is possible that the Paris Agreement and subsequent domestic and international regulations will have adverse effects on the market for crude oil, natural gas and other fossil fuel products as well as adverse effects on the business and operations of companies engaged in the exploration for, and production of, crude oil, natural gas and other fossil fuel products.  EOG is unable to predict the timing, scope and effect of any currently proposed or future investigations, laws, regulations or treaties regarding climate change and GHG emissions, but the direct and indirect costs of such investigations, laws, regulations and treaties (if enacted) could materially and adversely affect EOG's operations, financial condition and results of operations.. The regulation of hydraulic fracturing is primarily conducted at the state and local level through permitting and other compliance requirements.  In November 2016, however, the U.S. Bureau of Land Management (BLM) issued a final rule that limits venting, flaring and leaking of natural gas from oil and gas wells and equipment on federal and Indian lands.  In December 2017, the BLM temporarily suspended or delayed certain requirements of that rule until January 17, 2019.  In addition, the U.S. EPA has issued regulations relating to hydraulic fracturing and there have been various other proposals to regulate hydraulic fracturing at the federal level.  Any new federal regulations that may be imposed on hydraulic fracturing could result in additional permitting and disclosure requirements, additional operating and compliance costs and additional operating restrictions.  Moreover, some state and local governments have imposed or have considered imposing various conditions and restrictions on drilling and completion operations.  Any such federal or state requirements, restrictions or conditions could lead to operational delays and increased operating and compliance costs and, moreover, could delay or effectively prevent the development of crude oil and natural gas from formations which would not be economically viable without the use of hydraulic fracturing.  Accordingly, our production of crude oil and natural gas could be materially and adversely affected.  For additional discussion regarding climate change regulation and hydraulic fracturing regulation, see Climate Change - United States and Hydraulic Fracturing - United States under ITEM 1, Business - Regulation.. We will continue to monitor and assess any proposed or new policies, legislation, regulations and treaties in the areas where we operate to determine the impact on our operations and take appropriate actions, where necessary. We are unable to predict the timing, scope and effect of any currently proposed or future laws, regulations or treaties, but the direct and indirect costs of such laws, regulations and treaties (if enacted) could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.  For related discussion, see the risk factor below regarding the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act with respect to regulation of derivatives transactions and entities (such as EOG) that participate in such transactions.. Tax laws and regulations may change over time, and additional regulatory guidance or changes in EOG's assumptions and interpretations in respect of the recently passed comprehensive tax reform bill could adversely affect our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition.. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. President signed into law a comprehensive tax reform bill commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the TCJA) that significantly changes the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.  The TCJA, among other things, (i) permanently reduces the U.S. corporate income tax rate; (ii) repeals the corporate alternative minimum tax (AMT); (iii) provides for the refund of AMT credits over a four-year period beginning in 2018; (iv) revises the U.S. federal taxation of foreign earnings; (v) imposes a tax on the deemed repatriation of existing foreign earnings that is payable over an eight-year period beginning in 2017; and (vi) provides for other changes to the taxation of corporations, including changes to cost recovery rules, the utilization of net operating losses, and the deductibility of interest expense, each of which may impact the taxation of oil and gas companies.  The TCJA is complex and far-reaching and we cannot predict with certainty the resulting impact its enactment will have on us.  The ultimate impact of the TCJA may differ from our estimates due to changes in interpretations and assumptions made by us as well as additional regulatory guidance that may be issued, and any such changes in interpretations or assumptions could materially and adversely affect our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition.  See Note 6 to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.. In addition, from time to time, legislation has been proposed that, if enacted into law, would make significant changes to U.S. federal and state income tax laws, including the elimination of the immediate deduction for intangible drilling and development costs.  While these specific changes are not included in the TCJA, no accurate prediction can be made as to whether any such legislative changes will be proposed or enacted in the future or, if enacted, what the specific provisions or the effective date of any such legislation would be.  The elimination of certain U.S. federal tax deductions, as well as any other changes to, or the imposition of new, federal, state, local or non-U.S. taxes (including the imposition of, or increases in, production, severance or similar taxes), could materially and adversely affect our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition.. 18. A portion of our crude oil and natural gas production may be subject to interruptions that could have a material and adverse effect on us.. A portion of our crude oil and natural gas production may be interrupted, or shut in, from time to time for various reasons, including, but not limited to, as a result of accidents, weather conditions, the unavailability of gathering, processing, compression, transportation or refining facilities or equipment or field labor issues, or intentionally as a result of market conditions such as crude oil or natural gas prices that we deem uneconomic.  If a substantial amount of our production is interrupted or shut in, our cash flows and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. We have limited control over the activities on properties we do not operate.. Some of the properties in which we have an interest are operated by other companies and involve third-party working interest owners.  As a result, we have limited ability to influence or control the operation or future development of such properties, including compliance with environmental, safety and other regulations, or the amount of capital expenditures that we will be required to fund with respect to such properties.  Moreover, we are dependent on the other working interest owners of such projects to fund their contractual share of the capital expenditures of such projects.  In addition, a third-party operator could also decide to shut-in or curtail production from wells, or plug and abandon marginal wells, on properties owned by that operator during periods of lower crude oil or natural gas prices.  These limitations and our dependence on the operator and third-party working interest owners for these projects could cause us to incur unexpected future costs, lower production and materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. If we acquire crude oil and natural gas properties, our failure to fully identify existing and potential problems, to accurately estimate reserves, production rates or costs, or to effectively integrate the acquired properties into our operations could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. From time to time, we seek to acquire crude oil and natural gas properties - for example, our October 2016 mergers and related asset purchase transactions with Yates Petroleum Corporation and certain of its affiliated entities.  Although we perform reviews of properties to be acquired in a manner that we believe is duly diligent and consistent with industry practices, reviews of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems (such as title or environmental issues), nor may they permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties in order to assess fully their deficiencies and potential.  Even when problems with a property are identified, we often may assume environmental and other risks and liabilities in connection with acquired properties pursuant to the acquisition agreements.  In addition, there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of crude oil and natural gas reserves (as discussed further below), actual future production rates and associated costs with respect to acquired properties.  Actual reserves, production rates and costs may vary substantially from those assumed in our estimates.  In addition, an acquisition may have a material and adverse effect on our business and results of operations, particularly during the periods in which the operations of the acquired properties are being integrated into our ongoing operations or if we are unable to effectively integrate the acquired properties into our ongoing operations.. We have substantial capital requirements, and we may be unable to obtain needed financing on satisfactory terms, if at all.. We make, and will continue to make, substantial capital expenditures for the acquisition, exploration, development, production and transportation of crude oil and natural gas reserves.  We intend to finance our capital expenditures primarily through our cash flows from operations, commercial paper borrowings, sales of non-core assets and borrowings under other uncommitted credit facilities and, to a lesser extent and if and as necessary, bank borrowings, borrowings under our revolving credit facility and public and private equity and debt offerings.. Lower crude oil and natural gas prices, however, reduce our cash flows and could also delay or impair our ability to consummate certain planned non-core asset sales and divestitures. Further, if the condition of the credit and capital markets materially declines, we might not be able to obtain financing on terms we consider acceptable, if at all.  In addition, weakness and/or volatility in domestic and global financial markets or economic conditions and a depressed commodity price environment may increase the interest rates that lenders and commercial paper investors require us to pay and adversely affect our ability to finance our capital expenditures through equity or debt offerings or other borrowings.  A reduction in our cash flows (for example, as a result of lower crude oil and natural gas prices or unanticipated well shut-ins) and the corresponding adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations may also increase the interest rates that lenders and commercial paper investors require us to pay.  In addition, a substantial increase in interest rates would decrease our net cash flows available for reinvestment.  Any of these factors could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 19. Our ability to obtain financings, our borrowing costs and the terms of any financings are, in part, dependent on the credit ratings assigned to our debt by independent credit rating agencies.  Factors that may impact our credit ratings include our debt levels; planned asset purchases or sales; near-term and long-term production growth opportunities; liquidity; asset quality; cost structure; product mix; and commodity pricing levels (including, but not limited to, the estimates and assumptions of credit rating agencies with respect to future commodity prices).  We cannot provide any assurance that our current credit ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that our credit ratings will be raised in the future, nor can we provide any assurance that any of our credit ratings will not be lowered.. The inability of our customers and other contractual counterparties to satisfy their obligations to us may have a material and adverse effect on us.. We have various customers for the crude oil, natural gas and related commodities that we produce as well as various other contractual counterparties, including several financial institutions and affiliates of financial institutions.  Domestic and global economic conditions, including the financial condition of financial institutions generally, may adversely affect the ability of our customers and other contractual counterparties to pay amounts owed to us from time to time and to otherwise satisfy their contractual obligations to us, as well as their ability to access the credit and capital markets for such purposes.. Moreover, our customers and other contractual counterparties may be unable to satisfy their contractual obligations to us for reasons unrelated to these conditions and factors, such as the unavailability of required facilities or equipment due to mechanical failure or market conditions.  Furthermore, if a customer is unable to satisfy its contractual obligation to purchase crude oil, natural gas or related commodities from us, we may be unable to sell such production to another customer on terms we consider acceptable, if at all, due to the geographic location of such production, the availability, proximity or capacity of gathering, processing, compression and transportation facilities or market or other factors and conditions.. The inability of our customers and other contractual counterparties to pay amounts owed to us and to otherwise satisfy their contractual obligations to us may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Competition in the oil and gas exploration and production industry is intense, and many of our competitors have greater resources than we have.. We compete with major integrated oil and gas companies, government-affiliated oil and gas companies and other independent oil and gas companies for the acquisition of licenses and leases, properties and reserves and access to the facilities, equipment, materials, services and employees and other contract personnel (including geologists, geophysicists, engineers and other specialists) necessary to explore for, develop, produce, market and transport crude oil and natural gas.  In addition, certain of our competitors have financial and other resources substantially greater than those we possess and have established strategic long-term positions and strong governmental relationships in countries in which we may seek new or expanded entry.  As a consequence, we may be at a competitive disadvantage in certain respects, such as in bidding for drilling rights or in accessing necessary services, facilities, equipment, materials and personnel.  In addition, our larger competitors may have a competitive advantage when responding to factors that affect demand for crude oil and natural gas, such as changing worldwide prices and levels of production and the cost and availability of alternative fuels.  We also face competition, to a lesser extent, from competing energy sources, such as alternative energy sources.. Reserve estimates depend on many interpretations and assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate.  Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations and assumptions could cause the reported quantities of our reserves to be materially misstated.. Estimating quantities of crude oil, NGL and natural gas reserves and future net cash flows from such reserves is a complex, inexact process.  It requires interpretations of available technical data and various assumptions, including assumptions relating to economic factors, made by our management and our independent petroleum consultants.  Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could cause the reported quantities of our reserves and future net cash flows from such reserves to be overstated or understated.  Also, the data for a given reservoir may also change substantially over time as a result of numerous factors including, but not limited to, additional development activity, evolving production history and continual reassessment of the viability of production under varying economic conditions.. 20. To prepare estimates of our economically recoverable crude oil, NGL and natural gas reserves and future net cash flows from our reserves, we analyze many variable factors, such as historical production from the area compared with production rates from other producing areas.  We also analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data, and the extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary.  The process also involves economic assumptions relating to commodity prices, production costs, gathering, processing, compression and transportation costs, severance, ad valorem and other applicable taxes, capital expenditures and workover and remedial costs, many of which factors are or may be beyond our control.  Our actual reserves and future net cash flows from such reserves most likely will vary from our estimates.  Any significant variance, including any significant revisions or \"write-downs\" to our existing reserve estimates, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and, in turn, the trading price of our common stock.  For related discussion, see ITEM 2, Properties - Oil and Gas Exploration and Production - Properties and Reserves and Supplemental Information to Consolidated Financial Statements.. Weather and climate may have a significant and adverse impact on us.. Demand for crude oil and natural gas is, to a significant degree, dependent on weather and climate, which impacts, among other things, the price we receive for the commodities we produce and, in turn, our cash flows and results of operations.  For example, relatively warm temperatures during a winter season generally result in relatively lower demand for natural gas (as less natural gas is used to heat residences and businesses) and, as a result, lower prices for natural gas production.. In addition, our exploration, exploitation and development activities and equipment can be adversely affected by extreme weather conditions, such as winter storms, flooding and tropical storms and hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico, which may cause a loss of production from temporary cessation of activity or damaged facilities and equipment.  Such extreme weather conditions could also impact other areas of our operations, including access to our drilling and production facilities for routine operations, maintenance and repairs, the installation and operation of gathering, processing, compression and transportation facilities and the availability of, and our access to, necessary third-party services, such as gathering, processing, compression and transportation services.  Such extreme weather conditions and changes in weather patterns may materially and adversely affect our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations.. Our hedging activities may prevent us from benefiting fully from increases in crude oil and natural gas prices and may expose us to other risks, including counterparty risk.. We use derivative instruments (primarily financial price swap, option, swaption, collar and basis swap contracts) to hedge the impact of fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas prices on our results of operations and cash flows.  To the extent that we engage in hedging activities to protect ourselves against commodity price declines, we may be prevented from fully realizing the benefits of increases in crude oil and natural gas prices above the prices established by our hedging contracts.  At February 20, 2018, our forecasted crude oil production for 2018 is approximately 34% hedged at approximately $60.04 per barrel (excluding  basis swap contracts) and our forecasted natural gas production for 2018 is approximately 12% hedged at approximately $2.96 per million British thermal units (excluding call option contracts).  As a result, a portion of our forecasted production for 2018 remains unhedged and subject to fluctuating market prices. If we are ultimately unable to hedge additional production volumes for 2018 and beyond, we will be impacted by further commodity price declines, which may result in lower net cash provided by operating activities.  In addition, our hedging activities may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which the counterparties to our hedging contracts fail to perform under the contracts.. Federal legislation and related regulations regarding derivatives transactions could have a material and adverse impact on our hedging activities.. As discussed in the risk factor immediately above, we use derivative instruments to hedge the impact of fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas prices on our results of operations and cash flows.  In 2010, Congress adopted the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act), which, among other matters, provides for federal oversight of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities that participate in that market and mandates that the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and certain federal agencies that regulate the banking and insurance sectors (the Prudential Regulators)  adopt rules or regulations implementing the Dodd-Frank Act and providing definitions of terms used in the Dodd-Frank Act.  The Dodd-Frank Act establishes margin requirements and requires clearing and trade execution practices for certain categories of swaps and may result in certain market participants needing to curtail their derivatives activities.  Although some of the rules necessary to implement the Dodd-Frank Act are yet to be adopted, the CFTC, the SEC and the Prudential Regulators have issued numerous rules, including a rule establishing an \"end-user\" exception to mandatory clearing (End-User Exception), a rule regarding margin for uncleared swaps (Margin Rule) and a proposed rule imposing position limits (Position Limits Rule).. 21. We qualify as a \"non-financial entity\" for purposes of the End-User Exception and, as such, we are eligible for, and expect to utilize, such exception.  As a result, our hedging activities will not be subject to mandatory clearing or the margin requirements imposed in connection with mandatory clearing.  We also qualify as a \"non-financial end user\" for purposes of the Margin Rule; therefore, our uncleared swaps are not subject to regulatory margin requirements.  Finally, we believe our hedging activities would constitute bona fide hedging under the Position Limits Rule and would not be subject to limitation under such rule if it is enacted.  However, many of our hedge counterparties and many other market participants may not be eligible for the End-User Exception, may be subject to mandatory clearing or the Margin Rule for swaps with some or all of their other swap counterparties, and/or may be subject to the Position Limits Rule.  In addition, the European Union and other non-U.S. jurisdictions have enacted laws and regulations related to derivatives (collectively, Foreign Regulations) which may apply to our transactions with counterparties subject to such Foreign Regulations.. The Dodd-Frank Act, the rules adopted thereunder and the Foreign Regulations could increase the cost of derivative contracts, alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against the price risks we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts, and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties.  If our use of derivatives is reduced as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, related regulations or the Foreign Regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile, and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for, and fund, our capital expenditure requirements.  Any of these consequences could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business and prospects for future success depend to a significant extent upon the continued service and performance of our management team.. Our business and prospects for future success, including the successful implementation of our strategies and handling of issues integral to our future success, depend to a significant extent upon the continued service and performance of our management team.  The loss of any member of our management team, and our inability to attract, motivate and retain substitute management personnel with comparable experience and skills, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We operate in other countries and, as a result, are subject to certain political, economic and other risks.. Our operations in jurisdictions outside the U.S. are subject to various risks inherent in foreign operations.  These risks include, among other risks:. • increases in taxes and governmental royalties;. • changes in laws and policies governing operations of foreign-based companies;. • loss of revenue, loss of or damage to equipment, property and other assets and interruption of operations as a result of expropriation, nationalization, acts of terrorism, war, civil unrest and other political risks;. • unilateral or forced renegotiation, modification or nullification of existing contracts with governmental entities;. • difficulties enforcing our rights against a governmental agency because of the doctrine of sovereign immunity and foreign sovereignty over international operations; and. • currency restrictions or exchange rate fluctuations (e.g., as a result of Great Britain's June 2016 vote to leave the European Union).. Our international operations may also be adversely affected by U.S. laws and policies affecting foreign trade and taxation, including modifications to, or withdrawal from, international trade treaties.  The realization of any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Unfavorable currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our results of operations.. The reporting currency for our financial statements is the U.S. dollar.  However, certain of our subsidiaries are located in countries other than the U.S. and have functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar.  The assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses of certain of these foreign subsidiaries are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar.  To prepare our consolidated financial statements, we must translate those assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses into U.S. dollars at then-applicable exchange rates.  Consequently, increases and decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar versus other currencies will affect the amount of these items in our consolidated financial statements, even if the amount has not changed in the original currency.  These translations could result in changes to our results of operations from period to period.  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, less than 1% of our net operating revenues related to operations of our foreign subsidiaries whose functional currency was not the U.S. dollar.. 22. Our business could be adversely affected by security threats, including cybersecurity threats.. As a producer of crude oil and natural gas, we face various security threats, including cybersecurity threats to gain unauthorized access to our sensitive information or to render our information or systems unusable, and threats to the security of our facilities and infrastructure or third-party facilities and infrastructure, such as gathering and processing facilities, refineries, rail facilities and pipelines. The potential for such security threats subjects our operations to increased risks that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  For example, unauthorized access to our seismic data, reserves information or other proprietary information could lead to data corruption, communication interruptions, or other disruptions to our operations.. Our implementation of various procedures and controls to monitor and mitigate such security threats and to increase security for our information, systems, facilities and infrastructure may result in increased capital and operating costs. Moreover, there can be no assurance that such procedures and controls will be sufficient to prevent security breaches from occurring. If any of these security breaches were to occur, they could lead to losses of, or damage to, sensitive information or facilities, infrastructure and systems essential to our business and operations, as well as data corruption, communication interruptions or other disruptions to our operations, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.. Terrorist activities and military and other actions could materially and adversely affect us.. Terrorist attacks and the threat of terrorist attacks, whether domestic or foreign, as well as military or other actions taken in response to these acts, could cause instability in the global financial and energy markets.  The U.S. government has at times issued public warnings that indicate that energy assets might be specific targets of terrorist organizations.  Any such actions and the threat of such actions could materially and adversely affect us in unpredictable ways, including the disruption of energy supplies and markets, increased volatility in crude oil and natural gas prices or the possibility that the infrastructure on which we rely could be a direct target or an indirect casualty of an act of terrorism, and, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations."
