[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. The prices for oil, natural gas and NGLs are highly volatile and sustained lower prices have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. Our success depends upon the prices we receive for our oil, natural gas and NGLs. These commodity prices historically have been highly volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile in the future, especially given current global geopolitical and economic conditions. Oil and natural gas prices significantly declined in the second half of 2014, with sustained lower prices continuing throughout 2015, 2016 and 2017.  There is a risk that commodity prices will remain volatile and, despite a modest recovery in late 2017, commodity prices could remain depressed for a sustained period.  The prices for oil, natural gas and NGLs are subject to a variety of factors that are outside of our control, which include, among others:. • regional, domestic and international supply of, and demand for, oil, natural gas and NGLs;. • oil, natural gas and NGLs inventory levels in the United States;. • political and economic conditions domestically and in other oil and natural gas producing countries, including the current conflicts in the Middle East and conditions in Africa, Russia and South America;. • actions of OPEC and state-controlled oil companies relating to oil, natural gas and NGLs price and production controls;. • wars, terrorist activities and other acts of aggression;. • weather conditions and weather patterns;. • technological advances affecting energy consumption and energy supply;. • adoption of various energy efficiency and conservation measures and alternative fuel requirements;. • the price and availability of supplies of, and consumer demand for, alternative energy sources;. • the price and quantity of U.S. imports and exports of oil, natural gas, including liquefied natural gas, and NGLs;. • volatile trading patterns in capital and commodity-futures markets;. • the strengthening and weakening of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies;. • changes in domestic governmental regulations, administrative and/or agency actions, and taxes, including potential restrictive regulations associated with hydraulic fracturing operations;. • changes in the costs of exploring for, developing, producing, transporting, processing and marketing oil, natural gas and NGLs;. • availability, proximity and cost of commodity processing, gathering and transportation and refining capacity;. • perceptions of customers on the availability and price volatility of our products, particularly customers' perception of the volatility of oil and natural gas prices over the longer term; and. • variations between product prices at sales points and applicable index prices.. Governmental actions may also affect oil, natural gas and NGLs prices.. The negative impact of low commodity prices on our cash flows could limit our cash available for capital expenditures and reduce our drilling opportunities. Any resulting decreases in production could result in an additional shortfall in our expected cash flows and require us to further reduce our capital spending or borrow funds to cover any such shortfall. In addition to reducing our cash flows, the prolonged and substantial decline in commodity prices has and could continue to negatively impact our proved oil and natural gas reserves and could negatively impact the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically in the future.  Commodity prices also affect our ability to access funds under our reserve-based revolving credit facility (the RBL Facility) and through the capital markets and may adversely affect our ability to refinance our debt. The amount available for borrowing under the RBL Facility is subject to a borrowing base, which is determined by our. 15. Table of Contents. lenders taking into account our proved reserves, and is subject to periodic redeterminations (in April and November) based on pricing models determined by the lenders at such time. Declines in oil, natural gas and NGLs prices have and could continue to adversely impact the value of our proved reserves and, in turn, the bank pricing used by our lenders to determine our borrowing base. Upon redetermination, we would be required to repay amounts outstanding under our credit facility should they exceed the redetermined borrowing base. Any of these factors could further negatively impact our liquidity, our ability to replace our production and our future rate of growth. On the other hand, increases in commodity prices may be offset by increases in drilling costs, production taxes and lease operating costs that typically result from any increase in commodity prices. Any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We have significant capital programs in our business that may require us to access capital markets, and any inability to obtain access to the capital markets in the future at competitive rates, or any negative developments in the capital markets, could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We have significant capital programs in our business, which may require us to access the capital markets. Since we are rated below investment grade, our ability to access the capital markets or the cost of capital could be negatively impacted in the future, which could require us to forego capital opportunities or could make us less competitive in our pursuit of growth opportunities, especially in relation to many of our competitors that are larger than us or have investment grade ratings. There is a risk that our below investment credit rating may be further adversely affected in the future as the credit rating agencies review their general credit requirements in light of the sustained lower commodity price environment as well as review our leverage, liquidity, credit profile and potential transactions. Reductions in our credit rating could have a negative impact on us.  For example, a lower credit rating could limit our available liquidity if we are required to post incremental collateral on transportation contract obligations or other contractual commitments.. In addition, the credit markets for companies in the energy sector in recent years have experienced a period of turmoil and upheaval as commodity prices have been volatile. These circumstances and events have led to reduced credit availability, tighter lending standards and higher interest rates on loans for companies in the energy industry, especially non-investment grade companies. While we cannot predict the future condition of the credit markets, future turmoil in the credit markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition and cash flows, particularly if our ability to borrow money from lenders or access the capital markets to finance our operations were to be impaired. Our primary source of liquidity beyond cash flow from operations is our RBL Facility.  At December 31, 2017, we had $595 million outstanding under the facility and a borrowing base of $1.4 billion.  In January 2018, as a result of exchanging $954 million, $54 million and $139 million of the outstanding amount of our senior unsecured notes maturing in May 2020, September 2022 and June 2023, respectively, the borrowing base was reduced to $1.36 billion.. Although we believe that the banks participating in the RBL Facility have adequate capital and resources, we can provide no assurance that all of those banks will continue to operate as going concerns in the future, or continue to participate in the facility. If any of the banks in our lending group were to fail, or choose not to participate, it is possible that the borrowing capacity under the RBL Facility would be reduced. In the event of such reduction, we could be required to obtain capital from alternate sources or find additional RBL participants in order to finance our capital needs. Our options for addressing such capital constraints would include, but not be limited to, obtaining commitments from the remaining banks in the lending group or from new banks to fund increased amounts under the terms of the RBL Facility, and accessing the public and private capital markets. In addition, we may delay certain capital expenditures to ensure that we maintain appropriate levels of liquidity. If it became necessary to access additional capital, any such alternatives could have terms less favorable than the current terms under the RBL Facility, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and require us to dedicate a substantial portion of cash flows to service our debt payment obligations.. We are a highly leveraged company with significant debt and debt service obligations. Our substantial indebtedness could:. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to debt service payments thereby reducing the availability of cash for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes;. • limit our ability to borrow money for our working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, strategic initiatives or other purposes;. 16. Table of Contents. • expose us to more liquidity risks, including breach of covenants and default risks, especially during times of financial and commodity price volatility;. • make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business or the economy;. • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our operations or business;. • increase our leverage relative to our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage;. • restrict us from making strategic acquisitions, engaging in development activities, introducing new technologies or exploiting business opportunities;. • cause us to make non-strategic divestitures; or. • cause us to issue equity thereby diluting existing stockholders.. The success of our business depends upon our ability to find and replace reserves that we produce.. Similar to our competitors, we have a reserve base that is depleted as it is produced. Unless we successfully replace the reserves that we produce, our reserves will decline, which will eventually result in a decrease in oil and natural gas production and lower revenues and cash flows from operations. We historically have replaced reserves through both drilling and acquisitions. The business of exploring for, developing or acquiring reserves requires substantial capital expenditures. If we do not continue to make significant capital expenditures (for any reason, including our access to capital resources becoming limited) or if our exploration, development and acquisition activities are unsuccessful, we may not be able to replace the reserves that we produce, which would negatively impact us. As a result, our future oil and natural gas reserves and production, and therefore our cash flow and results of operations, are highly dependent upon our success in efficiently developing and exploiting our current properties and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. We may not be able to develop, find or acquire additional reserves to replace our current and future production at acceptable costs or at all. If we are unable to replace our current and future production, the value of our reserves will decrease, and our business, results of operations and financial condition would be materially adversely affected.. Our oil and natural gas drilling and producing operations involve many risks, and our production forecasts may differ from actual results.. Our success will depend on our drilling results. Our drilling operations are subject to the risk that (i) we may not encounter commercially productive reservoirs or (ii) if we encounter commercially productive reservoirs, we either may not fully recover our investments or our rates of return will be less than expected. Our past performance should not be considered indicative of future drilling performance. As a result, there remains uncertainty on the results of our drilling programs, including our ability to realize proved reserves or to earn acceptable rates of return on our drilling programs. From time to time, we provide forecasts of expected quantities of future production. These forecasts are based on a number of estimates, including expectations of production from existing wells and the outcome of future drilling activity. Our forecasts could be different from actual results and such differences could be material.. Our decisions to purchase, explore, develop or otherwise exploit prospects or properties will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are often inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. In addition, the results of our exploratory drilling in new or emerging areas are more uncertain than drilling results in areas that are developed and have established production. Our cost of drilling, completing, equipping and operating wells is often uncertain before drilling commences. Overruns in budgeted expenditures are common risks that can make a particular project uneconomical or less economic than forecasted. Further, many factors may increase the cost of, or curtail, delay or cancel drilling operations, including the following:. • unexpected drilling conditions;. • delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with regulatory and contractual requirements, including requirements on sourcing of materials;. • unexpected pressure or irregularities in geological formations;. • equipment failures or accidents;. • fracture stimulation accidents or failures;. • adverse weather conditions;. 17. Table of Contents. • declines in oil and natural gas prices;. • surface access restrictions with respect to drilling or laying pipelines;. • shortages (or increases in costs) of water used in hydraulic fracturing, especially in arid regions or regions that have been experiencing severe drought conditions;. • shortages or delays in the availability of, increases in the cost of, or increased competition for, drilling rigs and crews, fracture stimulation crews, equipment, pipe, chemicals and supplies and transportation, gathering, processing, treating or other midstream services; and. • limitations or reductions in the market for oil and natural gas.. Additionally, the occurrence of certain of these events, particularly equipment failures or accidents, could impact third parties, including persons living in proximity to our operations, our employees and employees of our contractors, leading to possible injuries or death or significant property damage. As a result, we face the possibility of liabilities from these events that could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. In addition, uncertainties associated with enhanced recovery methods may not allow for the extraction of oil and natural gas in a manner or to the extent that we anticipate and we may be unable to realize an acceptable return on our investments in certain of our projects. The additional production and reserves, if any, attributable to the use of enhanced recovery methods are inherently difficult to predict.. Our drilling locations are scheduled to be drilled over a number of years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their drilling.. Our management has identified and scheduled potential drilling locations as an estimate of our future multi-year drilling activities on our existing acreage. All of our potential drilling locations, particularly our potential drilling locations for oil, represent a significant part of our strategy. Our ability to drill and develop these locations is subject to a number of uncertainties, including the availability of capital, seasonal conditions, regulatory approvals, oil, natural gas and NGLs prices, costs and drilling results. Because of these uncertainties, we do not know if the drilling locations we have identified will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce oil, natural gas or NGLs from these or any other potential drilling locations. Pursuant to existing SEC rules and guidance, subject to limited exceptions, proved undeveloped reserves may only be booked if they relate to wells where a final investment decision has been made to drill within five years of the date of booking. These rules and guidance may limit our potential to book additional proved undeveloped reserves as we pursue our drilling program.. Drilling locations that we decide to drill may not yield oil, natural gas or NGLs in commercially viable quantities.. Our future drilling locations are in various stages of evaluation, ranging from a location which is ready to drill to a location that will require substantial additional interpretation. There is no way to predict in advance of drilling and testing whether any particular location will yield oil, natural gas or NGLs in sufficient quantities to recover drilling or completion costs or to be economically viable. The use of technologies and the study of producing fields in the same area will not enable us to know conclusively, prior to drilling, whether oil, natural gas or NGLs will be present or, if present, whether oil, natural gas or NGLs will be present in sufficient quantities to be economically viable. Even if sufficient amounts of oil, natural gas or NGLs exist, we may damage the potentially productive hydrocarbon-bearing formation or experience mechanical difficulties while drilling or completing the well, resulting in a reduction in production from the well or abandonment of the well. We cannot assure you that the analogies we draw from available data from other wells, more fully explored locations or producing fields will be applicable to our other identified drilling locations. Further, initial production rates reported by us or other operators may not be indicative of future or long-term production rates.  The cost of drilling, completing and operating any well is often uncertain, and new wells may not be productive.. We require substantial capital expenditures to conduct our operations, engage in acquisition activities and replace our production, and we may be unable to obtain needed financing on satisfactory terms necessary to execute our operating strategy.. We require substantial capital expenditures to conduct our exploration, development and production operations, engage in acquisition activities and increase our proved reserves and production. In 2017, we spent total capital of $587 million. We have established a capital budget for 2018 of approximately $600 million to $650 million (not including acquisition capital) and we intend to rely on cash flow from operating activities and available cash and borrowings under the RBL Facility as our primary sources of liquidity. For a discussion of liquidity, see Part II, Item 7. \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Liquidity and Capital Resources\". We also may engage in asset sale transactions to, among other things, fund capital expenditures when market conditions permit us to complete transactions on. 18. Table of Contents. terms we find acceptable. There can be no assurance that such sources will be available to us or sufficient to fund our exploration, development and acquisition activities. If our revenues and cash flows continue to decrease in the future as a result of sustained declines in commodity prices or a reduction in production levels, and we are unable to obtain additional equity or debt financing in the capital markets or access alternative sources of funds, we may be required to reduce the level of our capital expenditures and may lack the capital necessary to increase or even maintain our reserves and production levels.. Our future revenues, cash flows and spending levels are subject to a number of factors, including commodity prices, the level of production from existing wells and our success in developing and producing new wells. Further, our ability to access funds under the RBL Facility is based on a borrowing base, which is subject to periodic redeterminations (in April and November) based on our proved reserves and pricing models that will be determined by our lenders at such time. If the prices for oil and natural gas decline, if we have a downward revision in estimates of our proved reserves, or if we sell additional oil and natural gas reserves, our borrowing base may be reduced.. Our ability to access the capital markets and complete future asset monetization transactions is also dependent upon oil, natural gas and NGLs prices, in addition to a number of other factors, some of which are outside our control. These factors include, among others, domestic and global economic conditions and conditions in the domestic and global financial markets.. Due to these factors, we cannot be certain that funding, if needed, will be available to the extent required, or on acceptable terms. If we are unable to access funding when needed on acceptable terms, we may not be able to fully implement our business plans, take advantage of business opportunities, respond to competitive pressures or refinance our debt obligations as they come due, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. Our use of derivative financial instruments could result in financial losses or could reduce our income.. We use fixed price financial options and swaps to mitigate our commodity price and basis exposures. However, we do not typically hedge all of these exposures, and typically do not hedge any of these exposures beyond several years. Our derivative contracts (primarily fixed price derivatives) as of December 31, 2017, will allow us to realize a weighted average price of $58.68 per barrel on 13.6 MMBbls of oil and $3.04 per MMBtu on 26 TBtu of natural gas in 2018 and a weighted average price of $2.97 per MMBtu on 7 TBtu of natural gas in 2019. We have limited price protection in 2019 and none past this timeframe. As a result, we have substantial commodity price and basis exposure since our business has multi-year drilling programs for our proved reserves and unproved resources, particularly as our existing hedges roll off.. The derivative contracts we enter into to mitigate commodity price risk are not designated as accounting hedges and are therefore marked to market. As a result, we experience volatility in our revenues and net income as a result of changes in commodity prices, counterparty non-performance risks, correlation factors and changes in the liquidity of the market. Furthermore, the valuation of these financial instruments involves estimates that are based on assumptions that could prove to be incorrect and result in financial losses. Although we have internal controls in place that impose restrictions on the use of derivative instruments, there is a risk that such controls will not be complied with or will not be effective, and we could incur substantial losses on our derivative transactions. The use of derivatives, to the extent they require collateral posting with our counterparties, could impact our working capital and liquidity when commodity prices or interest rates change.. To the extent we enter into derivative contracts to manage our commodity price and basis exposures, we may forego the benefits we could otherwise experience if such prices were to change favorably and we could experience losses to the extent that these prices were to increase above the fixed price.  In addition, these hedging arrangements also expose us to the risk of financial loss in the following circumstances, among others:. • when production is less than expected or less than we have hedged;. • when the counterparty to the hedging instrument defaults on its contractual obligations;. • when there is an increase in the differential between the underlying price in the hedging instrument and actual prices received; and. • when there are issues with respect to legal enforceability of such instruments.. Our derivative counterparties are typically large financial institutions. We are subject to the risk of loss on our derivative instruments as a result of non-performance by counterparties to the terms of their obligations. The risk that a counterparty may default on its obligations is heightened when there is a significant decline in commodity prices. The ability of our counterparties to meet their obligations to us on hedge transactions could reduce our revenue from hedges at a time when we are also receiving a lower price for our oil and natural gas sales. As a result, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. 19. Table of Contents. Derivatives reform legislation and related regulations could have an adverse effect on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business.. The July 2010 Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Dodd-Frank Act) provided for federal oversight of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities that participate in that market and mandated that the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the CFTC), the SEC and certain federal regulators of financial institutions (the Prudential Regulators) adopt rules or regulations to implement the Dodd-Frank Act and provide definitions of terms used in the Dodd-Frank Act. The Dodd-Frank Act established margin requirements and required clearing and trade execution practices for certain market participants and resulted in certain market participants curtailing and/or ceasing their derivatives activities.. Although some of the rules necessary to implement the Dodd-Frank Act remain to be adopted, the CFTC, the SEC and the Prudential Regulators have issued many rules to implement the Dodd-Frank Act, including a rule (the Mandatory Clearing Rule) requiring clearing of hedges, or swaps, that are subject to it (currently, only certain interest rate and credit default swaps, which we do not presently have), a rule establishing an \"end user\" exception (the End User Exception) to the Mandatory Clearing Rule, a rule (the Margin Rule) setting forth collateral requirements in connection with swaps that are not cleared and also an exception (the Non-Financial End User Exception) to the Margin Rule for end users that are not financial end users and a rule (the Position Limit Rule), subsequently vacated by the United States District Court for the District of Columbia and remanded to the CFTC for further proceedings, imposing position limits. The CFTC proposed a new version of the Position Limit Rule, with respect to which the comment period closed but no final rule was issued, and has re-proposed a new version of the Position Limit Rule (the Re-Proposed Position Limit Rule) with respect to which the comment period is scheduled to close on February 28, 2017. The Re-Proposed Position Limit Rule provides an exemption from the position limits for swaps that constitute \"bona fide hedging positions\" within the definition of such term under the Re-Proposed Position Limit Rule, subject to the party claiming the exemption complying with the applicable filing, recordkeeping and reporting requirements of the Re-Proposed Position Limit Rule.. We qualify for the End User Exception and will utilize it if the Mandatory Clearing Rule is expanded to cover swaps in which we participate, we qualify for the Non-Financial End User Exception and will not be required to post margin under the Margin Rule and our existing and anticipated hedging positions constitute \"bona fide hedging positions\" under the Re-Proposed Position Limit Rule and we intend to do the filing, recordkeeping and reporting necessary to utilize the bona fide hedging position exemption under the Re-Proposed Position Limit Rule if and when it becomes effective, so we do not expect to be directly affected by any of such rules. However, most if not all of our hedge counterparties will be subject to mandatory clearing in connection with their hedging activities with parties who do not qualify for the End User Exception and will be required to post margin in connection with their hedging activities with other swap dealers, major swap participants, financial end users and other persons that do not qualify for the Non-Financial End User Exception or another exception to the Margin Rule.  In addition, the European Union and other non-U.S. jurisdictions have enacted laws and regulations (collectively, Foreign Regulations, including laws and regulations giving European Union financial authorities the power to write down amounts we may be owed on hedging agreements with counterparties subject to such Foreign Regulations and/or require that we accept equity interests in such counterparties in lieu of cash in satisfaction of such amounts) which may apply to our transactions with counterparties subject to such Foreign Regulations.  The Dodd-Frank Act, the rules which have been adopted and not vacated, and, to the extent that the Re-Proposed Position Limit Rule is ultimately effected, such proposed rule could significantly increase the cost of our derivative contracts, materially alter the terms of our derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to us that we have historically used to protect against risks that we encounter in our business, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts, and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. The Foreign Regulations could have similar effects. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations and Foreign Regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Finally, the Dodd-Frank Act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity contracts related to oil and natural gas. Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on us, our financial condition, and our results of operations.. Estimating our reserves involves uncertainty, our actual reserves will likely vary from our estimates, and negative revisions to our reserve estimates in the future could result in decreased earnings and/or losses and impairments.. All estimates of proved reserves are determined according to the rules prescribed by the SEC. Our reserve information is prepared internally and is audited by an independent petroleum engineering consultant. There are numerous uncertainties involved in estimating proved reserves, which may result in our estimates varying considerably from actual. 20. Table of Contents. results. Estimating quantities of proved reserves is complex and involves significant interpretation and assumptions with respect to available geological, geophysical and engineering data, including data from nearby producing areas. It also requires us to estimate future economic factors, such as commodity prices, production costs, plugging and abandonment costs, severance, ad valorem and excise taxes, capital expenditures, workover and remedial costs, and the assumed effect of governmental regulation. Due to a lack of substantial production data, there are greater uncertainties in estimating proved undeveloped reserves and proved developed non-producing reserves. There is also greater uncertainty of estimating proved developed reserves that are early in their production life. As a result, our reserve estimates are inherently imprecise. Furthermore, estimates are subject to revision based upon a number of factors, including many factors beyond our control such as reservoir performance, prices (including commodity prices and the cost of oilfield services), economic conditions and government restrictions and regulations. In addition, results of drilling, testing and production subsequent to the date of an estimate may justify revision of that estimate. Therefore, our reserve information represents an estimate and is often different from the quantities of oil and natural gas that are ultimately recovered or proven recoverable.. The SEC rules require the use of a 10% discount factor for estimating the value of our future net cash flows from reserves and the use of a historical 12-month average price. This discount factor may not necessarily represent the most appropriate discount factor, given our costs of capital, actual interest rates and risks faced by our exploration and production business, and the average historical price will not generally represent the future market prices for oil and natural gas over time. Any significant change in commodity prices could cause the estimated quantities and net present value of our reserves to differ and these differences could be material. You should not assume that the present values referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K represent the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. Finally, the timing of the production and the expenses related to the development and production of oil and natural gas properties will affect both the timing of actual future net cash flows from our proved reserves and their present value.. We account for our activities under the successful efforts method of accounting. Changes in the estimated fair value of these reserves could result in a write-down in the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties, which could be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on our net income and stockholders' equity. Lower estimated fair value of these reserves could also result in lower recorded reserves, which would increase our depreciation, depletion and amortization rates and decrease earnings.. A portion of our proved reserves are undeveloped. Recovery of undeveloped reserves requires significant capital expenditures and successful drilling operations. In addition, because our proved reserve base consists primarily of unconventional resources, the costs of finding, developing and producing those reserves may require capital expenditures that are greater than more conventional resource plays. Our estimates of proved reserves assume that we can and will make these expenditures and conduct these operations successfully. However, future events, including commodity price changes and our ability to access capital markets, may cause these assumptions to change.. Our business is subject to competition from third parties, which could negatively impact our ability to succeed.. The oil, natural gas and NGLs businesses are highly competitive. We compete with third parties in the search for and acquisition of leases, properties and reserves, as well as the equipment, materials and services required to explore for and produce our reserves. There has been intense competition for the acquisition of leasehold positions, particularly in many of the oil and natural gas shale plays. Our ability to acquire additional properties and to discover reserves in the future will be dependent upon our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to fund and consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. In addition, because we have fewer financial and human resources than many companies in our industry, we may be at a disadvantage in bidding for exploratory prospects and producing oil properties. Similarly, we compete with many third parties in the sale of oil, natural gas and NGLs to customers, some of which have substantially larger market positions, marketing staff and financial resources than us. Our competitors include major and independent oil and natural gas companies, as well as financial services companies and investors, many of which have financial and other resources that are substantially greater than those available to us. Many of these companies not only explore for and produce oil and natural gas, but also carry on refining operations and market petroleum and other products on a regional, national or worldwide basis. These companies may be able to pay more for productive oil and natural gas properties and exploratory prospects or define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or human resources permit. In addition, these companies may have a greater ability to continue exploration activities during periods of low oil and natural gas market prices.. Furthermore, there is significant competition between the oil and natural gas industry and other industries producing energy and fuel, which may be substantially affected by various forms of energy legislation and/or regulation considered from time to time by federal, state and local governments. It is not possible to predict the nature of any such legislation or regulation that may ultimately be adopted or its effects upon our future operations. Such laws and regulations may substantially increase the costs of exploring for, developing or producing oil and natural gas and may prevent or delay the commencement or. 21. Table of Contents. continuation of a given operation. Our larger competitors may be able to absorb the burden of existing, and any changes to, federal, state and local laws and regulations more easily than we can, which could negatively impact our competitive position.. Our industry is cyclical, and at certain times historically there have been shortages of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or qualified personnel. A sustained decline in commodity prices can also reduce the number of service providers for such drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or qualified personnel, contributing to or also resulting in the shortages. Alternatively, during periods of high prices, the cost of rigs, equipment, supplies and personnel can fluctuate widely and availability may be limited. These services may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We cannot predict the extent to which these conditions will exist in the future or their timing or duration. The high cost or unavailability of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and other oil field services could significantly decrease our profit margins, cash flows and operating results and could restrict our ability to drill the wells and conduct the operations that we currently have planned and budgeted or that we may plan in the future. Any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our business is subject to operational hazards and uninsured risks that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to all of the inherent risks associated with drilling for and producing natural gas and oil, including the possibility of:. • Adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, and/or other climate related matters - including extreme cold or heat, lightning and flooding, severe drought, fires, earthquakes, hurricanes, tropical storms, tornadoes and other natural disasters. Although the potential effects of climate change on our operations (such as hurricanes, flooding, etc.) are uncertain at this time, changes in climate patterns could also have a negative impact upon our operations in the future, particularly with regard to any of our facilities that are located in or near coastal regions;. • Acts of aggression on critical energy infrastructure - including terrorist activity or \"cyber security\" events. We are subject to the ongoing risk that one of these incidents may occur which could significantly impact our business operations and/or financial results. Should one of these events occur in the future, it could impact our ability to operate our drilling and exploration processes, our operations could be disrupted, and/or property could be damaged resulting in substantial loss of revenues, increased costs to respond or other financial loss, damage to reputation, increased regulation and litigation and/or inaccurate information reported from our exploration and production operations to our financial applications, to our customers and to regulatory entities; and. • Other hazards - including the collision of third-party equipment with our infrastructure; explosions, equipment malfunctions, mechanical and process safety failures, well blowouts, formations with abnormal pressures and collapses of wellbore casing or other tubulars; events causing our facilities to operate below expected levels of capacity or efficiency; uncontrollable flows of natural gas, oil, brine or well fluids, release of pollution or contaminants (including hydrocarbons) into the environment (including discharges of toxic gases or substances) and other environmental hazards.. Each of these risks could result in (i) damage to and destruction of our facilities; (ii) damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment; (iii) injury or loss of life; (iv) business interruptions while damaged energy infrastructure is repaired or replaced; (v) pollution and other environmental damage; (vi) regulatory investigations and penalties; and (vii) repair and remediation costs. Any of these results could cause us to suffer substantial losses.. While we maintain insurance against some of these risks in amounts that we believe are reasonable, our insurance coverages have material deductibles, self-insurance levels and limits on our maximum recovery and do not cover all risks. For example, from time to time, we may not carry, or may be unable to obtain, on terms that we find acceptable and/or reasonable, insurance coverage for certain exposures, including, but not limited to certain environmental exposures (including potential environmental fines and penalties), business interruption and named windstorm/hurricane exposures and, in limited circumstances, certain political risk exposures. The premiums and deductibles we pay for certain insurance policies are also subject to the risk of substantial increases over time that could negatively impact our financial results. In addition, we may not be able to renew existing insurance policies or procure desirable insurance on commercially reasonable terms. There is also a risk that our insurers may default on their insurance coverage obligations or that amounts for which we are insured, or that the proceeds of such insurance, will not compensate us fully for our losses. Any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 22. Table of Contents. Some of our operations are subject to joint ventures or operations by third parties, which could negatively impact our control over these operations and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.. A small portion of our operations and interests are operated by third-party working interest owners.  In such cases, (i) we have limited ability to influence or control the day-to-day operation of such properties, including compliance with environmental, safety and other regulations, (ii) we cannot control the amount of capital expenditures that we are required to fund with respect to properties, (iii) we are dependent on third parties to fund their required share of capital expenditures and (iv) we may have restrictions or limitations on our ability to sell our interests in these jointly owned assets.. The insolvency of an operator of our properties, the failure of an operator of our properties to adequately perform operations or an operator's breach of applicable agreements could reduce our production and revenue and result in our liability to governmental authorities for compliance with environmental, safety and other regulatory requirements, to the operator's suppliers and vendors and to royalty owners under oil and gas leases jointly owned with the operator or another insolvent owner. As a result, the success and timing of our drilling and development activities on properties operated by others and the economic results derived therefrom depends upon a number of factors outside of our control, including the operator's timing and amount of capital expenditures, expertise and financial resources, inclusion of other participants in drilling wells and use of technology.  Finally, an operator of our properties may have the right, if another non-operator fails to pay its share of costs, to require us to pay our proportionate share of the defaulting party's share of costs.. We currently sell most of our oil production to a limited number of significant purchasers. The loss of one or more of these purchasers, if not replaced, could reduce our revenues and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. For the year ended December 31, 2017, eleven purchasers accounted for approximately 89% of our oil revenues. We depend upon a limited number of significant purchasers for the sale of most of our production. The loss of any of these customers, should we be unable to replace them, could adversely affect our revenues and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that any of our customers will continue to do business with us or that we will continue to have access to suitably liquid markets for our future production.. We are subject to a complex set of laws and regulations that regulate the energy industry for which we have to incur substantial compliance and remediation costs.. Our operations, and the energy industry in general, are subject to a complex set of federal, state and local laws and regulations over the following activities, among others:. • the location of wells;. • methods of drilling and completing wells;. • allowable production from wells;. • unitization or pooling of oil and gas properties;. • spill prevention plans;. • limitations on venting or flaring of natural gas;. • disposal of fluids used and wastes generated in connection with operations;. • access to, and surface use and restoration of, well properties;. • plugging and abandoning of wells, even if we no longer own and/or operate such wells;. • air quality and emissions, noise levels and related permits;. • gathering, transportation and marketing of oil and natural gas (including NGLs);. • taxation;. • competitive bidding rules on federal and state lands; and. • the sourcing and supply of materials needed to operate.. 23. Table of Contents. Generally, the regulations have become more stringent and have imposed more limitations on our operations and, as a result, have caused us to incur more costs to comply. Many required approvals are subject to considerable discretion by the regulatory agencies with respect to the timing and scope of approvals and permits issued. If permits are not issued, or if unfavorable restrictions or conditions are imposed on our drilling activities, we may not be able to conduct our operations as planned or at all. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals or permits, the failure to obtain a drilling permit for a well, or the receipt of a permit with excessive conditions or costs could have a material negative impact on our operations and financial results. We may also incur substantial costs in order to maintain compliance with these existing laws and regulations, including costs to comply with new and more extensive reporting and disclosure requirements. Failure to comply with such requirements may result in the suspension or termination of operations and may subject us to criminal as well as civil and administrative penalties. We are exposed to fines and penalties to the extent that we fail to comply with the applicable laws and regulations, as well as the potential for limitations to be imposed on our operations. In addition, our costs of compliance may increase if existing laws and regulations are revised or reinterpreted, or if new laws and regulations become applicable to our operations. Such costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Also, some of our assets are located and operate on federal, state, local or tribal lands and are typically regulated by one or more federal, state or local agencies. For example, we have drilling and production operations that are located on federal lands, which are regulated by the DOI, particularly by the Bureau of Land Management (BLM). We also have operations on Native American tribal lands, which are regulated by the DOI, particularly by the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA), as well as local tribal authorities. Operations on these properties are often subject to additional regulations and compliance obligations, which can delay our access to such lands and impose additional compliance costs. There are also various laws and regulations that regulate various market practices in the industry, including antitrust laws and laws that prohibit fraud and manipulation in the markets in which we operate. The authority of the Federal Trade Commission and the CFTC to impose penalties for violations of laws or regulations has generally increased over the last few years.. We are exposed to the credit risk of our counterparties, contractors and suppliers.. We have significant credit exposure related to our sales of physical commodities, payments to contractors and suppliers, hedging activities and to the non-operating working interest owners who are counterparties to our operating agreements.  If our counterparties become insolvent or otherwise fail to make payments/or perform within the time required under our contracts, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.  Although we maintain strict credit policies and procedures and credit insurance in some cases, they may not be adequate to fully eliminate the credit risk associated with our counterparties, contractors and suppliers.. We are exposed to the performance risk of our key contractors and suppliers.. As an owner of drilling and production facilities with significant capital expenditures in our business, we rely on contractors for certain construction, drilling and completion operations and we rely on suppliers for key materials, supplies and services, including steel mills, pipe and tubular manufacturers and oil field service providers. We also rely upon the services of other third parties to explore or analyze our prospects to determine a method in which the prospects may be developed in a cost-effective manner. There is a risk that such contractors and suppliers may experience credit and performance issues triggered by a sustained low or a volatile commodity price environment that could adversely impact their ability to perform their contractual obligations with us, including their performance and warranty obligations. This could result in delays or defaults in performing such contractual obligations and increased costs to seek replacement contractors, each of which could negatively impact us. We could also be exposed to liability that we would otherwise be indemnified for by these counterparties should they become insolvent or are otherwise unable to satisfy their obligations under their indemnities.. The Sponsors and other legacy investors own approximately 83 percent of the equity interests in us and may have conflicts of interest with us and or public investors.. Investment funds affiliated with, and one or more co-investment vehicles controlled by, our Sponsors (affiliates of Apollo Global Management LLC, Riverstone Holdings LLC, Access Industries and Korea National Oil Corporation, collectively the Sponsors) and other legacy investors collectively own approximately 83 percent of our equity interests and such persons or their designees hold substantially all of the seats on our board of directors. As a result, the Sponsors and such other investors have control over our decisions to enter into certain corporate transactions and have the ability to prevent any transaction that typically would require the approval of stockholders, regardless of whether holders of our notes or stock believe that any such transactions are in their own best interests. For example, the Sponsors and other legacy investors could collectively cause us to make acquisitions that increase the amount of our indebtedness or to sell assets, or could cause us to issue additional equity, debt, or declare dividends or other distributions to our equity holders. So long as investment funds affiliated with the Sponsors and other such investors continue to indirectly own a majority of the outstanding shares of our equity interests or otherwise control a majority of our board of directors, these investors will continue to be able to strongly. 24. Table of Contents. influence or effectively control our decisions. The indentures governing the notes and the credit agreements governing the RBL Facility and our senior secured term loan permit us, under certain circumstances, to pay advisory and other fees, pay dividends and make other restricted payments to the Sponsors and other investors, and the Sponsors and such other investors or their respective affiliates may have an interest in our doing so.. Additionally, the Sponsors and other legacy investors are in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us or that supply us with goods and services. These persons may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to (or competitive with) our business, and as a result those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. In addition, the Sponsors' and other investors' interests in other portfolio companies could impact our ability to pursue acquisition opportunities.. The loss of the services of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our executive officers and other members of our senior management have substantial experience and expertise in our business and industry. We do not have key man or similar life insurance covering our executive officers and other members of senior management. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of our executive officers or members of senior management could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our business requires the retention and recruitment of a skilled workforce and the loss of employees and skilled labor shortages could result in the inability to implement our business plans and could negatively impact our profitability.. Our business requires the retention and recruitment of a skilled workforce including engineers, technical personnel, geoscientists, project managers, land personnel and other professionals. We compete with other companies in the energy and other industries for this skilled workforce. We have developed company-wide compensation and benefit programs that are designed to be competitive among our industry peers and that reflect market-based metrics as well as incentives to create alignment with the Sponsors and other investors, but there is a risk that these programs and those in the future will not be successful in retaining and recruiting these professionals or that we could experience increased costs. If we are unable to (i) retain our current employees, (ii) successfully complete our knowledge transfer and/or (iii) recruit new employees of comparable knowledge and experience, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be negatively impacted. In addition, we could experience increased costs to retain and recruit these professionals.. We may be affected by skilled labor shortages, which we have from time-to-time experienced. There is also a risk that staff reductions, that have and may continue to accompany the downturn in the industry, may adversely impact our ability to conduct our business or respond to new business opportunities. Skilled labor shortages could negatively impact the productivity and profitability of certain projects. Our inability to bid on new and attractive projects, or maintain productivity and profitability on existing projects due to the limited supply of skilled workers and/or increased labor costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition.. Our strategy involves drilling in shale plays using some of the latest available horizontal drilling and completion techniques, the results of which are subject to drilling and completion technique risks, and drilling results may not meet our expectations for reserves or production.. Our operations involve utilizing the latest horizontal drilling and completion techniques in order to maximize cumulative recoveries and therefore optimize our returns. Drilling risks that we face include, but are not limited to, landing our well bore in the desired drilling zone, staying in the desired drilling zone while drilling horizontally through the formation, running our casing the entire length of the well bore and being able to run tools and other equipment consistently through the horizontal well bore. Risks that we face while completing our wells include, but are not limited to, being able to fracture stimulate the planned number of stages, being able to run tools the entire length of the well bore during completion operations and successfully cleaning out the well bore after completion of the final fracture stimulation stage.. Ultimately, the success of these drilling and completion techniques can only be evaluated over time as more wells are drilled and production profiles are established over a sufficiently longer period. If our drilling results are less than anticipated, the return on our investment for a particular project may not be as attractive as we anticipated and we could incur material write-downs of unevaluated properties and the value of our undeveloped acreage could decline in the future.. 25. Table of Contents. New technologies may cause our current exploration and drilling methods to become obsolete.. The oil and natural gas industry is subject to rapid and significant advancements in technology, including the introduction of new products and services using new technologies. As competitors use or develop new technologies, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage, and competitive pressures may force us to implement new technologies at a substantial cost. In addition, competitors may have greater financial, technical and personnel resources that allow them to enjoy technological advantages and may in the future allow them to implement new technologies before we can. One or more of the technologies that we currently use or that we may implement in the future may become obsolete. We cannot be certain that we will be able to implement technologies on a timely basis or at a cost that is acceptable to us. If we are unable to maintain technological advancements consistent with industry standards, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected.. Our business depends on access to oil, natural gas and NGLs processing, gathering and transportation systems and facilities.. The marketability of our oil, natural gas and NGLs production depends in large part on the operation, availability, proximity, capacity and expansion of processing, gathering and transportation facilities owned by third parties. We can provide no assurance that sufficient processing, gathering and/or transportation capacity will exist or that we will be able to obtain sufficient processing, gathering and/or transportation capacity on economic terms. A lack of available capacity on processing, gathering and transportation facilities or delays in their planned expansions could result in the shut-in of producing wells or the delay or discontinuance of drilling plans for properties. A lack of availability of these facilities for an extended period of time could negatively impact our revenues. In addition, we have entered into contracts for firm transportation and any failure to renew those contracts on the same or better commercial terms could increase our costs and our exposure to the risks described above.. Our operations are substantially dependent on the availability of water. Restrictions on our ability to obtain water may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Water currently is an essential component of deep shale oil and natural gas production during both the drilling and hydraulic fracturing processes. Historically, we have been able to purchase water from local land owners for use in our operations.  In times of drought, we may be subject to local or state restrictions on the amount of water we procure to help protect local water supply. If we are unable to obtain water to use in our operations from local sources, we may be unable to economically produce our reserves, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We may face unanticipated water and other waste disposal costs.. We may be subject to regulation that restricts our ability to discharge water produced as part of our operations. Productive zones frequently contain water that must be removed in order for the oil and natural gas to produce, and our ability to remove and dispose of sufficient quantities of water from the various zones will determine whether we can produce oil and natural gas in commercial quantities. The produced water must be transported from the lease and injected into disposal wells. The availability of disposal wells with sufficient capacity to receive all of the water produced from our oil and natural gas wells may affect our ability to produce our oil and natural gas wells. Also, the cost to transport and dispose of that water, including the cost of complying with regulations concerning water disposal, may reduce our profitability.. Where water produced from our projects fails to meet the quality requirements of applicable regulatory agencies, our wells produce water in excess of the applicable volumetric permit limits, the disposal wells fail to meet the requirements of all applicable regulatory agencies, or we are unable to secure access to disposal wells with sufficient capacity to accept all of the produced water, we may have to shut in wells, reduce drilling activities, or upgrade facilities for water handling or treatment. The costs to dispose of this produced water may increase if any of the following occur:. • we cannot obtain future permits from applicable regulatory agencies;. • water of lesser quality or requiring additional treatment is produced;. • our wells produce excess water;. • new laws and regulations require water to be disposed in a different manner; or. • costs to transport the produced water to the disposal wells increase.. 26. Table of Contents. Our acquisition attempts may not be successful or may result in completed acquisitions that do not perform as anticipated.. We have made and may continue to make acquisitions of businesses and properties. However, suitable acquisition candidates may not continue to be available on terms and conditions we find acceptable or at all. Any acquisition, including any completed or future acquisition, involves potential risks, including, among others:. • we may not produce revenues, reserves, earnings or cash flow at anticipated levels or could have environmental, permitting or other problems for which contractual protections prove inadequate;. • we may assume liabilities that were not disclosed to us and for which contractual protections prove inadequate or that exceed our estimates;. • we may acquire properties that are subject to burdens on title that we were not aware of at the time of acquisition that interfere with our ability to hold the property for production and for which contractual protections prove inadequate;. • we may be unable to integrate acquired businesses successfully and realize anticipated economic, operational and other benefits in a timely manner, which could result in substantial costs and delays or other operational, technical or financial problems;. • we may encounter disruptions to our ongoing business and matters that distract our management or divert resources that make it difficult to maintain our current business standards, controls, procedures and policies;. • we may issue (or assume) additional equity or debt securities or debt instruments in connection with future acquisitions, which may affect our liquidity or financial leverage;. • we may make mistaken assumptions about costs, including synergies related to an acquired business;. • we may encounter difficulties in complying with regulations, such as environmental regulations, and managing risks related to an acquired business;. • we may encounter limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller;. • we may make mistaken assumptions about the overall costs of equity or debt used to finance any such acquisition;. • we may encounter difficulties in entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger expertise and/or market positions;. • we may potentially lose key customers; and. • we may lose key employees and/or encounter costly litigation resulting from the termination of those employees.. Any of the above risks could significantly impair our ability to manage our business, complete or effectively integrate acquisitions and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Certain of our undeveloped leasehold acreage is subject to leases that will expire in several years unless production is established on units containing the acreage.. Although many of our reserves are located on leases that are held-by-production or held by continuous development, we do have provisions in a number of our leases that provide for the lease to expire unless certain conditions are met, such as drilling having commenced on the lease or production in paying quantities having been obtained within a defined time period. If commodity prices remain low or we are unable to allocate sufficient capital to meet these obligations, there is a risk that some of our existing proved reserves and some of our unproved inventory/acreage could be subject to lease expiration or a requirement to incur additional leasehold costs to extend the lease. This could result in impairment of remaining costs, a reduction in our reserves and our growth opportunities (or the incurrence of significant costs) and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.. 27. Table of Contents. If oil and/or natural gas prices decrease, we may be required to take write-downs of the carrying values of our properties, which could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Accounting rules require that we review periodically the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties for impairment. Under the successful efforts method of accounting, we review our oil and natural gas properties upon a triggering event (such as a significant and sustained decline in forward commodity prices or a significant change in current and anticipated allocated capital) to determine if impairment of such properties is necessary. Significant undeveloped leasehold costs are assessed for impairment at a lease level or resource play level based on our current exploration plans, while leasehold acquisition costs associated with prospective areas that have limited or no previous exploratory drilling are generally assessed for impairment by major prospect area. Proved oil and natural gas property values are reviewed when circumstances suggest the need for such a review and may occur if actual discoveries in a field are lower than anticipated reserves, reservoirs produce below original estimates or if commodity prices fall to a level that significantly affects anticipated future cash flows on the property. If required, the proved properties are written down to their estimated fair market value based on proved reserves and other market factors.. As of December 31, 2017, our estimated reserves are based on the average first day of the month spot price for the preceding 12-month period of $51.34 per barrel of oil (which is below the forward strip price as of December 31, 2017) and $2.98 per MMBtu of natural gas, as required by the SEC Regulation S-X, Rule 4-10 as amended. We may incur impairment charges on our proved property in the future depending on the fair value of our proved reserves, which are subject to change as a result of factors such as prices, costs and well performance.  We could also incur significant impairment charges of our unproved property should low oil prices not justify sufficient capital allocation to the continued development of our unproved properties, among other factors. These impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition for the periods in which such charges are taken.. Sector cost inflation could adversely affect our profitability, cash flows and ability to execute our development plans as scheduled and on budget.. Historically, our capital and operating costs have risen during periods of increasing oil and natural gas prices. In particular, decreased levels of drilling activity in the oil and gas industry in recent years led to declining costs of some oilfield services and supplies. However, during 2017, increases in U.S. onshore drilling and completion activity resulted in higher demand for oilfield services and supplies. As a result, the costs of drilling, equipping and operating wells and infrastructure began to experience some inflation. If this trend continues, and if the commodity price recovery is robust, we expect industry exploration and production activities to continue to increase, resulting in even higher demand for oilfield services and supplies, which could result in significant sector price inflation. Such costs may rise faster than our revenues increase, which could negatively impact our profitability, cash flows and ability to execute our development plans as scheduled and on budget. This impact may be magnified to the extent that our ability to participate in the commodity price increases is limited by our derivative activities.. Our operations are subject to governmental laws and regulations relating to environmental matters, which may expose us to significant costs and liabilities and could exceed current expectations.. Our business is subject to laws and regulations that govern environmental matters. These regulations include compliance obligations for air emissions, water quality, wastewater discharge and solid and hazardous waste disposal, spill prevention, control and countermeasures, as well as regulations designed for the protection of threatened or endangered species. In some cases, our operations are subject to federal requirements for performing or preparing environmental assessments, environmental impact studies and/or plans of development before commencing exploration and production activities. In addition, our activities are subject to state regulations relating to conservation practices and protection of correlative rights. These regulations may negatively impact our operations and limit the quantity of natural gas and oil we produce and sell. We must take into account the cost of complying with such requirements in planning, designing, constructing, drilling, operating and abandoning wells and related surface facilities, including gathering, transportation, storage and waste disposal facilities. The regulatory frameworks govern, and often require permits for, the handling of drilling and production materials, water withdrawal, disposal of produced water, drilling and production wastes, operation of air emissions sources, and drilling activities, including those conducted on lands lying within wilderness, wetlands, ecologically or seismically sensitive areas, Federal and Indian lands and other protected areas. Various governmental authorities, including the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the DOI, the BIA and analogous state agencies and tribal governments, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them, often requiring difficult and costly actions, such as installing and maintaining pollution controls and maintaining measures to address personnel and process safety and protection of the environment and animal habitat near our operations. Failure to comply with these laws, regulations and permits may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations, the imposition of stricter conditions on or revocation of permits, the issuance of injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of. 28. Table of Contents. our operations, delays in granting permits and cancellation of leases. Liabilities, penalties, suspensions, terminations and increased costs resulting from any failure to comply with regulations and requirements of the type described above, or from the enactment of additional similar regulations or requirements in the future or a change in the interpretation or the enforcement of existing regulations or requirements of this type, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Legislation and regulatory initiatives intended to address pipeline safety could increase our operating costs.. Gas pipelines are subject to construction, installation, operation and safety regulation by the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT), and various other federal, state and local agencies. Congress has enacted several pipeline safety acts over the years. Currently, the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA) under DOT administers pipeline safety requirements for natural gas and hazardous liquid pipelines. These regulations, among other things, address pipeline integrity management and pipeline operator qualification rules. In June 2016, Congress approved new pipeline safety legislation, the \"Protecting Our Infrastructure of Pipelines and Enhancing Safety Act of 2016\" (the \"PIPES Act\"), which provides the PHMSA with additional authority to address imminent hazards by imposing emergency restrictions, prohibitions, and safety measures on owners and operators of gas or hazardous liquids pipeline facilities. Significant expenses could be incurred in the future if additional safety measures are required or if safety standards are raised and exceed the current pipeline control system capabilities.. Recently, the PHMSA has proposed additional regulations for gas pipeline safety. For example, in March 2016, the PHMSA proposed a rule that would expand integrity management requirements beyond High Consequence Areas to gas pipelines in newly defined Moderate Consequence Areas. The public comment period closed in July 2016. Also, in January 2017, the PHMSA released an advance copy of its final rules to expand its safety regulations for hazardous liquid pipelines by, among other things, expanding the required use of leak detection systems, requiring more frequent testing for corrosion and other flaws, and requiring companies to inspect pipelines in areas affected by extreme weather or natural disasters. The final rule was withdrawn by the PHMSA in January 2017, and it is unclear whether and to what extend the PHMSA will move forward with its regulatory reforms.. Regulation relating to climate change and energy conservation could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for oil and natural gas we produce.. In December 2009, the EPA published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane, and other greenhouse gases (GHGs) present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to the warming of the earth's atmosphere and other climate changes. In response to its endangerment finding, the EPA has adopted regulations restricting emissions of GHGs from motor vehicles and certain large stationary sources. The EPA adopted the stationary source rule, also known as the \"Tailoring Rule,\" in May 2010, and it also became effective January 2011, although the U.S. Supreme Court partially invalidated the rule in an opinion issued in June 2014. The Tailoring Rule remains applicable for those facilities considered major sources of six other \"criteria\" pollutants. In August 2016, the EPA proposed changes needed to bring EPA's air permitting regulations in line with the Supreme Court's decision on greenhouse gas permitting. The proposed rule was published in the Federal Register in October 2016 and the public comment period closed in December 2016.. Additionally, in September 2009, the EPA issued a final rule requiring the reporting of GHG emissions from specified large GHG emission sources in the U.S., including NGLs fractionators and local natural gas/distribution companies, beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring in 2010. In November 2010, the EPA expanded its existing GHG reporting rule to include onshore and offshore oil and natural gas production and onshore processing, transmission, storage and distribution facilities, which includes certain of our facilities, beginning in 2012 for emissions occurring in 2011. Amendments to the GHG reporting rule, revising certain calculation methods and clarifying certain terms, became final in early 2015. Effective January 1, 2016, the EPA extended the reporting rule to include emissions from completions and workovers of oil wells using hydraulic fracturing, as well as emissions from gathering and boosting systems. As a result of this continued regulatory focus, future GHG regulations of the oil and natural gas industry remain a possibility.. On November 15, 2016, the BLM finalized a waste prevention rule for oil and gas facilities on onshore federal and Indian leases to prohibit venting, limit flaring, require leak detection, and allow adjustment of royalty rates for new leases. State and industry groups have challenged the rule in federal court, asserting that the BLM lacks the authority to prescribe air quality regulations. The rule went into effect in January 2017 and could require installation of tank vapor controls at over 70 existing well sites in the Altamont area at an estimated cost of approximately $5 million. However, on March 28, 2017, the President signed an executive order directing the BLM to review the above rule and, if appropriate, to initiate a rulemaking to rescind or revise it. Accordingly, on December 8, 2017, the BLM published a final rule to suspend or delay certain requirements of its. 29. Table of Contents. 2016 waste prevention rule until January 17, 2019.  However, on February 22, 2018, a federal district court in California issued a preliminary injunction against BLM's suspension of the 2016 waste prevention rule. Also, on February 22, 2018, the BLM published proposed amendments to the final rule that would eliminate certain air quality provisions, including those that would require us to install tank vapor controls.  At this time, it is uncertain to what extent the BLM's waste prevention rule will apply.. In addition, the U.S. Congress has from time to time considered adopting legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs and almost one-half of the states have already taken measures to reduce emissions of GHGs primarily through the planned development of GHG emission inventories and/or regional GHG cap-and-trade programs. Most of these cap and trade programs work by requiring major sources of emissions, such as electric power plants or major producers of fuels, such as refineries and natural gas processing plants, to acquire and surrender emission allowances that correspond to their annual emissions of GHGs. The number of allowances available for purchase is reduced each year until the overall GHG emission reduction goal is achieved. As the number of GHG emission allowances declines each year, the cost or value of such allowances is expected to escalate significantly. Although the U.S. Congress has not adopted such legislation at this time, it may do so in the future and many states continue to pursue regulations to reduce GHG emissions.. At the international level, in December 2015, the United States participated in the 21st Conference of the Parties of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Paris, France.  The text of the resulting Paris Agreement calls for nations to undertake \"ambitious efforts\" to \"hold the increase in global average temperatures to well below 2 ºC above preindustrial levels and pursue efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5 ºC above pre-industrial levels;\" reach global peaking of GHG emissions as soon as possible; and take action to conserve and enhance sinks and reservoirs of GHGs, among other requirements. The Paris Agreement went into effect in November 2016. However, in June 2017, the President announced that the United States would withdraw from the Paris Agreement, and began negotiations to either re-enter or negotiate an entirely new agreement with more favorable terms for the United States. The Paris Agreement sets forth a specific exit process, whereby a party may not provide notice of its withdrawal until three years from the effective date, with such withdrawal taking effect one year from such notice. It is not clear what steps the Presidential administration plans to take to withdraw from the Paris Agreement, whether a new agreement can be negotiated, or what terms would be included in such an agreement. Furthermore, in response to the announcement, many state and local leaders have stated their intent to intensify efforts to uphold the commitments set forth in the international accord.. Regulation of GHG emissions could result in reduced demand for our products, as oil and natural gas consumers seek to reduce their own GHG emissions. As our operations also emit GHGs directly, current and future laws or regulations limiting such emissions could increase our own costs. Any regulation of GHG emissions, including through a cap-and-trade system, technology mandate, emissions tax, reporting requirement or other program, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Further, there have been various legislative and regulatory proposals at the federal and state levels to provide incentives and subsidies to (i) shift more power generation to renewable energy sources and (ii) support technological advances to drive less energy consumption. These incentives and subsidies could have a negative impact on oil, natural gas and NGLs consumption. In addition, there have also been efforts in recent years to influence the investment community, including investment advisors and certain sovereign wealth, pension and endowment funds promoting divestment of fossil fuel equities and pressuring lenders to limit funding to companies engaged in the extraction of fossil fuel reserves. Such environmental activism and initiatives aimed at limiting climate change and reducing air pollution could interfere with our business activities, operations and ability to access capital. Furthermore, claims have been made against certain energy companies alleging that GHG emissions from oil and natural gas operations constitute a public nuisance under federal and/or state common law. As a result, private individuals or public entities may seek to enforce environmental laws and regulations against us and could allege personal injury, property damages, or other liabilities. While our business is not a party to any such litigation, we could be named in actions making similar allegations. An unfavorable ruling in any such case could significantly impact our operations and could have an adverse impact on our financial condition.. In addition, to the extent climate change results in more severe weather and significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods, droughts and other climatic effects, our own, our counterparties' or our customers' operations may be disrupted, which could result in a decrease in our available products or reduce our customers' demand for our products.. Any of the above risks could impair our ability to manage our business and have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial position.. Our operations may be exposed to significant delays, costs and liabilities as a result of environmental and health and safety laws and regulations applicable to our business.. There is inherent risk in our operations of incurring significant environmental costs and liabilities due to our. 30. Table of Contents. generation and handling of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes, because of our air emissions and wastewater discharges, and as a result of historical industry operations and waste disposal practices. Some of our owned and leased properties have been used for oil and natural gas exploration and production activities for a number of years, often by third parties not under our control. During that time, we and/or other owners and operators of these facilities may have generated or disposed of wastes that polluted the soil, surface water or groundwater at our facilities and adjacent properties. For our non-operated properties, we are dependent on the operator for operational and regulatory compliance. We could be subject to claims for personal injury and/or natural resource and property damage (including site clean-up and restoration costs) related to the environmental, health or safety impacts of our oil and natural gas production activities, and we have been from time to time, and currently are, named as a defendant in litigation related to such matters. Under certain laws, we also could be subject to joint and several and/or strict liability for the removal or remediation of contamination regardless of whether such contamination was the result of our activities, even if the operations were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time the contamination occurred and even if we no longer own and/or operate on the properties. Private parties, including the owners of properties upon which our wells are drilled and facilities where our petroleum hydrocarbons or wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal, may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance, as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage. We have been and continue to be responsible for remediating contamination, including at some of our current and former facilities or areas where we produce hydrocarbons. While to date none of these obligations or claims have involved costs that have materially adversely affected our business, we cannot predict with certainty whether future costs of newly discovered or new contamination might result in a materially adverse impact on our business or operations.. There have been various regulations proposed and implemented that could materially impact the costs of exploration and production operations and cause substantial delays in the receipt of regulatory approvals from both an environmental and safety perspective. It is possible that more stringent regulations might be enacted or delays in receiving permits may occur in other areas, such as our onshore regions of the United States (including drilling operations on other federal or state lands).. Our operations could result in an equipment malfunction or oil spill that could expose us to significant liability.. Despite the existence of various procedures and plans, there is a risk that we could experience well control problems in our operations. As a result, we could be exposed to regulatory fines and penalties, as well as landowner lawsuits resulting from any spills or leaks that might occur. While we maintain insurance against some of these risks in amounts that we believe are reasonable, our insurance coverages have material deductibles, self-insurance levels and limits on our maximum recovery and do not cover all risks. For example, from time to time we may not carry, or may be unable to obtain on terms that we find acceptable and/or reasonable, insurance coverage for certain exposures including, but not limited to, certain environmental exposures (including potential environmental fines and penalties), business interruption and named windstorm/hurricane exposures and, in limited circumstances, certain political risk exposures. The premiums and deductibles we pay for certain insurance policies are also subject to the risk of substantial increases over time that could negatively impact our financial results. In addition, we may not be able to renew existing insurance policies or procure desirable insurance on commercially reasonable terms. There is also a risk that our insurers may default on their insurance coverage obligations or that amounts for which we are insured, or that the proceeds of such insurance, will not compensate us fully for our losses. Any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Although we might also have remedies against our contractors or vendors or our joint working interest owners with regard to any losses associated with unintended spills or leaks, the ability to recover from such parties will depend on the indemnity provisions in our contracts as well as the facts and circumstances associated with the causes of such spills or leaks. As a result, our ability to recover associated costs from insurance coverages or other third parties is uncertain.. Legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays.. We use hydraulic fracturing extensively in our operations. The hydraulic fracturing process is typically regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions. Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into formations to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. The Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA) regulates the underground injection of substances through the Underground Injection Control (UIC) program. While hydraulic fracturing generally is exempt from regulation under the UIC program, Congress has in recent legislative sessions considered legislation to amend the SDWA, including legislation that would repeal the exemption for hydraulic fracturing from the definition of \"underground injection\" and require federal permitting and regulatory control of hydraulic fracturing, as well as legislative proposals to require disclosure of the chemical constituents of the fluids used in the fracturing process. In addition, the EPA has taken the position that hydraulic fracturing with fluids containing diesel fuel is subject to regulation under the UIC program as \"Class II\" UIC wells. Also, in June 2016, EPA published a final rule prohibiting the discharge of wastewater from onshore unconventional oil and gas extraction facilities to publicly owned wastewater treatment plants. The EPA is also conducting a. 31. Table of Contents. study of private wastewater treatment facilities (also known as centralized waste treatment, or CWT, facilities) accepting oil and gas extraction wastewater. The EPA is collecting data and information related to the extent to which CWT facilities accept such wastewater, available treatment technologies (and their associated costs), discharge characteristics, financial characteristics of CWT facilities, and the environmental impacts of discharges from CWT facilities.. In August 2012, the EPA published final regulations under the Clean Air Act (CAA) that establish new air emission controls for oil and natural gas production and natural gas processing operations. Specifically, the EPA promulgated New Source Performance Standards establishing emission limits for sulfur dioxide (SO2) and volatile organic compounds (VOCs). The final rules require a 95% reduction in VOCs emitted by mandating the use of reduced emission completions or \"green completions\" on all hydraulically-fractured gas wells constructed or refractured after January 1, 2015. Until this date, emissions from fractured and refractured gas wells were to be reduced through reduced emission completions or combustion devices. The rules also establish new requirements regarding emissions from compressors, controllers, dehydrators, storage tanks and other production equipment. In response to numerous requests for reconsideration of these rules from both industry and the environmental community and court challenges to the final rules, the EPA has issued, and will likely continue to issue, revised rules responsive to some of the requests for reconsideration. In particular, in May 2016, the EPA amended its regulations to impose new standards for methane and VOC emissions for certain new, modified, and reconstructed equipment, processes, and activities across the oil and natural gas sector. However, in a March 28, 2017 executive order, the President directed the EPA to review the 2016 regulations and, if appropriate, to initiate a rulemaking to rescind or revise them consistent with the stated policy of promoting clean and safe development of the nation's energy resources, while at the same time avoiding regulatory burdens that unnecessarily encumber energy production. In June 2017, the EPA published a proposed rule to stay for two years certain requirements of the 2016 regulations, including fugitive emission requirements. These standards, as well as any future laws and their implementing regulations, may require us to obtain pre-approval for the expansion or modification of existing facilities or the construction of new facilities expected to produce air emissions, impose stringent air permit requirements, or mandate the use of specific equipment or technologies to control emissions.. In March 2015, the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) published a final rule governing hydraulic fracturing on federal and Indian lands. The rule requires public disclosure of chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing, implementation of a casing and cementing program, management of recovered fluids, and submission to the BLM of detailed information about the proposed operation, including wellbore geology, the location of faults and fractures, and the depths of all usable water. In June 2016, the United States District Court for Wyoming set aside the rule, holding that the BLM lacked Congressional authority to promulgate the rule. The BLM has appealed the decision to the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals. On March 28, 2017, the President signed an executive order directing the BLM to review the rule and, if appropriate, to initiate a rulemaking to rescind or revise it. In December 2017, the BLM published a final rule to rescind the 2015 hydraulic fracturing rule. Further legal challenges are expected. At this time, it is uncertain when, or if, the rules will be implemented, and what impact they would have on our operations.. Furthermore, there are certain governmental reviews either underway or being proposed that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing practices. In December 2016, the EPA released a study examining the potential for hydraulic fracturing activities to impact drinking water resources, finding that, under some circumstances, the use of water in hydraulic fracturing activities can impact drinking water resources. Also, in February 2015, the EPA released a report with findings and recommendations related to public concern about induced seismic activity from disposal wells. The report recommends strategies for managing and minimizing the potential for significant injection-induced seismic events. Other governmental agencies, including the U.S. Department of Energy, the U.S. Geological Survey, and the U.S. Government Accountability Office, have evaluated or are evaluating various other aspects of hydraulic fracturing. These studies, when final and depending on their results, could spur initiatives to regulate hydraulic fracturing under the SDWA or otherwise.. Several states and local jurisdictions in which we operate have adopted, or are considering adopting, regulations that could restrict or prohibit hydraulic fracturing in certain circumstances, impose more stringent operating standards and/or require the disclosure of the composition of hydraulic fracturing fluids. For example, Texas enacted a law requiring oil and natural gas operators to publicly disclose the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process, effective as of September 1, 2011. The Texas Railroad Commission adopted rules and regulations applicable to all wells for which the Texas Railroad Commission issues an initial drilling permit on or after February 1, 2012. The regulations require that well operators disclose the list of chemical ingredients subject to the requirements of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) for disclosure on an internet website and also file the list of chemicals with the Texas Railroad Commission with the well completion report. The total volume of water used to hydraulically fracture a well must also be disclosed to the public and filed with the Texas Railroad Commission. Furthermore, in May 2013, the Texas Railroad Commission issued an updated \"well integrity rule,\" addressing requirements for drilling, casing and cementing wells, which took effect in January 2014. In addition, Utah's Division of Oil, Gas and Mining passed a rule in October 2012 requiring all oil and gas operators to disclose the amount and type of chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing operations using the national registry FracFocus.org.. 32. Table of Contents. A number of lawsuits and enforcement actions have been initiated across the country alleging that hydraulic fracturing practices have induced seismic activity and adversely impacted drinking water supplies, use of surface water, and the environment generally. If new laws or regulations that significantly restrict hydraulic fracturing, such as amendments to the SDWA, are adopted, such laws could make it more difficult or costly for us to perform fracturing to stimulate production from tight formations as well as make it easier for third parties opposing the hydraulic fracturing process to initiate legal proceedings based on allegations that specific chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect groundwater. In addition, if hydraulic fracturing is further regulated at the federal or state level, our fracturing activities could become subject to additional permitting and financial assurance requirements, more stringent construction specifications, increased monitoring, reporting and recordkeeping obligations, plugging and abandonment requirements and also to attendant permitting delays and potential increases in costs. Such legislative changes could cause us to incur substantial compliance costs, and compliance or the consequences of any failure to comply by us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Until such regulations are finalized and implemented, it is not possible to estimate their impact on our business. At this time, no adopted regulations have imposed a material impact on our hydraulic fracturing operations.. Any of the above risks could impair our ability to manage our business and have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial position.. Legislation or regulatory initiatives intended to address seismic activity could restrict our drilling and production activities, as well as our ability to dispose of produced water gathered from such activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. State and federal regulatory agencies have recently focused on a possible connection between hydraulic fracturing related activities, particularly the underground injection of wastewater into disposal wells, and the increased occurrence of seismic activity, and regulatory agencies at all levels are continuing to study the possible linkage between oil and gas activity and induced seismicity. In addition, a number of lawsuits have been filed in some states, most recently in Oklahoma, alleging that disposal well operations have caused damage to neighboring properties or otherwise violated state and federal rules regulating waste disposal. In response to these concerns, regulators in some states are seeking to impose additional requirements, including requirements regarding the permitting of produced water disposal wells or otherwise to assess the relationship between seismicity and the use of such wells. For example, in October 2014, the Texas Railroad Commission adopted disposal well rule amendments designed to among other things, require applicants for new disposal wells that will receive non-hazardous produced water or other oil and gas waste to conduct seismic activity searches utilizing the U.S. Geological Survey. The searches are intended to determine the potential for earthquakes within a circular area of 100 square miles around a proposed new disposal well. If the permittee or an applicant of a disposal well permit fails to demonstrate that the produced water or other fluids are confined to the disposal zone or if scientific data indicates such a disposal well is likely to be or determined to be contributing to seismic activity, then the agency may deny, modify, suspend or terminate the permit application or existing operating permit for that well. The Commission has used this authority to deny permits for waste disposal wells.. Tax laws and regulations may change over time, including the elimination of federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development.. Tax laws and regulations are highly complex and subject to interpretation, and the tax laws and regulations to which we are subject may change over time. Our tax filings are based upon our interpretation of the tax laws in effect in various jurisdictions at the time that the filings were made. If these laws or regulations change, or if the taxing authorities do not agree with our interpretation of the effects of such laws and regulations, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.. On December 22, 2017, the President signed into law Public Law No. 115-97, a comprehensive tax reform bill commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Act) that significantly reforms the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code).  Among other changes, the  Act (i) permanently reduces the U.S. corporate income tax rate, (ii) repeals the corporate alternative minimum tax, (iii) eliminates the deduction for certain domestic production activities, (iv) imposes new limitations on the utilization of net operating losses generated after 2017, and (v) provides for more general changes to the taxation of corporations, including changes to cost recovery rules and to the deductibility of interest expense, which may impact the taxation of oil and gas companies. Given the complexity and breadth of the Act, the ultimate impact of the Act may differ from our estimates due to changes in interpretations and assumptions made by us as well as additional regulatory guidance that may be issued, and any such changes in our interpretations or assumptions could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. In past years, legislation has been proposed that, if enacted into law, would make significant changes to U.S. federal and state income tax laws, including:. 33. Table of Contents. • the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and gas properties;. • the elimination of current expensing of intangible drilling and development costs; and. • an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures.. While these specific changes are not included in the Act, no accurate prediction can be made as to whether any such legislative changes will be proposed or enacted in the future or, if enacted, what the specific provisions or the effective date of any such legislation would be. The elimination of such U.S. federal tax deductions, as well as any other changes to or the imposition of new federal, state, local or non-U.S. taxes (including the imposition of, or increases in production, severance or similar taxes) could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We have certain contingent liabilities that could exceed our estimates.. We have certain contingent liabilities associated with litigation, regulatory, environmental and tax matters described in Part II, Item 8, \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\", Note 9 to our consolidated financial statements and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, the positions taken in our federal, state, local and previously in non-U.S. tax returns require significant judgments, use of estimates and interpretation of complex tax laws. Although we believe that we have established appropriate reserves for our litigation, regulatory, environmental and tax matters, we could be required to accrue additional amounts in the future and/or incur more actual cash expenditures than accrued for and these amounts could be material.. Retained liabilities associated with businesses or assets that we have sold could exceed our estimates and we could experience difficulties in managing these liabilities.. We have sold various assets and either retained certain liabilities or indemnified certain purchasers against future liabilities relating to businesses and assets sold, including breaches of warranties, environmental expenditures, asset retirements and other representations that we have provided.  We may also be subject to retained liabilities with respect to certain divested assets by operation of law.  For example, the recent and sustained decline in commodity prices has created an environment where there is an increased risk that owners and/or operators of assets purchased from us may no longer be able to satisfy plugging or abandonment obligations that attach to such assets. In that event, due to operation of law, we may be required to assume these plugging or abandonment obligations on assets no longer owned and operated by us. Although we believe that we have established appropriate reserves for any such liabilities, we could be required to accrue additional amounts in the future and these amounts could be material.. Our debt agreements contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business.. Our existing debt agreements contain, and any other existing or future indebtedness of ours would likely contain, a number of covenants that impose operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions on our and our subsidiaries ability to, among other things:. • incur additional debt, guarantee indebtedness or issue certain preferred shares;. • pay dividends on or make distributions in respect of, or repurchase or redeem, our capital stock or make other restricted payments;. • prepay, redeem or repurchase certain debt;. • make loans or certain investments;. • sell certain assets;. • create liens on certain assets;. • consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets;. • enter into certain transactions with our affiliates;. • alter the businesses we conduct;. • enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends; and. • designate our subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries.. 34. Table of Contents. In addition, the RBL Facility requires us to comply with certain financial covenants. See Part II, Item 8, \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\", Note 8 for additional discussion of the RBL covenants.. As a result of these covenants, we may be limited in the manner in which we conduct our business, and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs.. A failure to comply with the covenants under the RBL Facility or any of our other indebtedness could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the event of any such default, the lenders thereunder:. • will not be required to lend any additional amounts to us;. • could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and fees, to be due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit; or. • could require us to apply all of our available cash to repay these borrowings.. Such actions by the lenders could cause cross defaults under our other indebtedness. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders or holders under the RBL Facility and our other secured indebtedness could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. We pledge a significant portion of our assets as collateral under the RBL Facility,  our senior secured term loans and our secured notes.. 35. Table of Contents"
