[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. General economic weakness may harm our operating results and financial condition.. Our results of operations are largely dependent upon the state of the economy. Global economic weakness and uncertainty may result in decreased sales, gross margin, and earnings or growth rates from our United States based customers and also from customers outside the U.S. For example, there continues to be substantial uncertainty regarding the economic impact of the Referendum on the United Kingdom's Membership of the European Union (\"EU\") (referred to as \"Brexit\"). Potential adverse consequences of Brexit such as global market uncertainty, volatility in currency exchange rates, greater restrictions on imports and exports between U.K. and EU countries and increased regulatory complexities could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, material changes in trade agreements between the United States and other countries may, for example, affect our ability to purchase product, our product pricing and availability of product. Adverse economic conditions may decrease our customers' demand for our products and services or impair the ability of our customers to pay for products and services they have purchased. As a result, our sales could decrease, and reserves for our credit losses and write-offs of receivables may increase.. If we lost one or more of our large volume customers, our earnings may be affected.. The contracts for the provision of products and services from us to our customers are generally non-exclusive agreements without volume purchase commitments, and are terminable by either party upon 30 days' notice. The loss of one or more of our largest customers, the failure of such customers to pay amounts due to us, or a material reduction in the amount of purchases made by such customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. For the years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 sales to a single large technology customer was approximately 12% and 13% of net sales, respectively. For the year ended March 31, 2016, no single customer's sales were greater than 10% of net sales.. Changes in the IT industry, customers' usage or procurement of IT, and/or rapid changes in product standards may result in reduced demand for the IT hardware and software solutions and services we sell.. Our results of operations are influenced by a variety of factors, including the condition of the IT industry, shifts in demand for, or availability of, IT hardware, software, peripherals and services, and industry introductions of new products, upgrades, methods of distribution, and the nature of how IT is consumed and procured. The IT industry is characterized by rapid technological change and the frequent introduction of new products, product enhancements and new distribution methods or channels, each of which can decrease demand for current products or render them obsolete. In addition, the proliferation of cloud technology, IaaS, SaaS, platform as a service (\"PaaS\"), software defined networking, or other emerging technologies may reduce the demand for products and services we sell to our customers. Cloud offerings may influence our customers to move workloads to cloud providers, which may reduce the procurement of products and services from us. Changes in the IT industry may also affect the demand for our advanced professional and managed services. We have invested a significant amount of capital in our strategy to provide certain products and services, and it may fail due to competition or changes in the industry or improper focus or selection of the products and services we decide to offer. If we fail to react in a timely manner to such changes, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Our sales can be dependent on demand for specific product categories, and any change in demand for or supply of such products could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. We depend on continued innovations in hardware, software and services offerings by our vendors, as well as the competitiveness of their offerings and our ability to partner with new and emerging technology providers.. The technology industry is characterized by rapid innovation and the frequent introduction of new and enhanced hardware, software and services offerings, such as cloud-based solutions, including IaaS, SaaS and PaaS. We depend on innovations in hardware, software and services offerings by our vendors, as well as the acceptance of those innovations by our customers for the offerings we sell. A decrease in the rate of innovation by our vendors, or the lack of acceptance of innovations by our customers, or a shift by customers to technology platforms that we do not sell, could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or cash flows.. 14. Table of Contents. In addition, if we are unable to keep up with changes in technology and new hardware, software and services offerings -  - for example by not providing the appropriate training to our account managers, sales technology specialists and engineers to enable them to effectively sell and deliver such new offerings to customers -  - our business, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected.. We also depend upon our vendors for the development and marketing of hardware, software and services to compete effectively with hardware, software and services of vendors whose products and services we do not currently offer or are not authorized to offer in one or more customer channels. In addition, our success depends on our ability to develop relationships with and sell hardware, software and services from new emerging vendors and vendors that we have not historically represented in the marketplace. To the extent that a vendor's offering that is highly in demand is not available to us for resale in one or more customer channels, and there is not a competitive offering from another vendor that we are authorized to sell in such customer channels, or we are unable to develop relationships with new technology providers or companies that we have not historically represented, or we partner with a vendor that is not in demand or demand significantly decreases, our business, results of operations, or cash flows could be adversely impacted.. We rely on a small number of key vendors, and do not have long-term supply or guaranteed price agreements or assurance of stock availability with our vendors.. A substantial portion of our revenue within our technology segment depends on a small number of key vendors including Cisco Systems, Hewlett Packard companies, and NetApp. Products manufactured by Cisco Systems represented approximately 43%, 47% and 49% of our technology segment net sales for the years ended March 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Products manufactured by Hewlett Packard companies represented approximately 6%, 6% and 7% of our technology segment net sales for the years ended March 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. NetApp products represented approximately 4%, 5% and 5% of our technology segment net sales for the years ended March 31, 2018, 2017, and 2016, respectively.. Our industry frequently experiences periods of product shortages from our vendors as a result of our vendors' difficulties in projecting demand for certain products we sell; additional trade law provisions or regulations; additional duties, tariffs or other charges on imports or exports; natural disasters affecting our suppliers' facilities; and significant labor disputes. As we do not stock inventory that is not related to an order we have received from our customer, we depend upon the supply of products available from our vendors to fulfill orders from our customers on a timely basis. The loss of, or change in business relationship with, any of these or any other key vendor partners, the diminished availability of their products, or backlogs for their products leading to manufacturer allocation could reduce the supply and increase the cost of products we sell and negatively impact our competitive position.. The loss of a key vendor or changes in its policies could adversely impact our financial results. Violations of a contract that results in either the termination of our ability to sell the product or a decrease in our certification level with the vendor could adversely impact our financial results. In addition, a reduction in the trade credit lines or the favorable terms granted to us by our vendors and financial partners could increase our need for and cost of working capital and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We may experience a reduction in incentives offered to us, and earned by us, from our vendors that would affect our earnings.. We receive payments and credits from vendors, including consideration pursuant to volume incentive programs, shared marketing expense programs, and early pay discounts. These programs are usually of finite terms and may not be renewed or may be changed in a way that adversely affects us. Vendor funding is used to offset inventory costs, costs of goods sold, marketing costs and other operating expenses. Certain of these funds are based on our volume of purchases, growth rate of purchases, and marketing programs. If we do not grow our sales over prior periods, or if we do not comply with the terms of these programs, or do not sell certain products that earn the incentive, there could be a material negative effect on the amount of incentives offered or paid to us by vendors. We may not continue to receive such incentives or may not be able to collect outstanding amounts relating to these incentives in a timely manner, or at all. Any sizeable reduction in, the discontinuance of, a significant delay in receiving, or the inability to collect such incentives, particularly related to incentive programs with our largest vendors, including Cisco Systems and Hewlett Packard Enterprise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to react timely to any fundamental changes in the programs of vendors, including the elimination of funding for some of the activities for which we have been compensated in the past, such changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 15. Table of Contents. We depend on third-party companies to perform certain of our obligations to our customers, which if not performed could cause significant disruption to our business.. We rely on arrangements with third-parties to perform certain professional services, managed services, warranties, configuration services, and other services for our customers. If these third-parties do not perform these in accordance with the terms of our agreement and of a professional standard customary for the services, or if they cause disruption of or security weaknesses in our customers' businesses, legal claims, or costs to our organization could result, including monetary damages paid to our customers, an adverse effect on our customer relationships, our brand, and our reputation, and our results of operations or cash flows could be affected.. We rely on independent shipping companies to deliver products from us and our vendors to our customers. The failure or inability of these shipping companies to deliver products, or the unavailability of their shipping services, even temporarily, could have an adverse effect on our business. We may also be adversely affected by an increase in freight surcharges that may result from economic, supply-chain, geopolitical, or other disruptions.. We may not have designed or maintained our IT systems to support our business.. We depend heavily upon the accuracy and reliability of our information, telecommunication and other systems including the operation of redundant systems if and when there are failures in our primary systems, which are used for sales, distribution, marketing, purchasing, inventory management, order processing, customer service and general accounting functions. We must continually maintain and improve our systems. The protections we have in place address a variety of threats to our information technology systems, both internal and external and human error. Poor security practices or design of our IT systems or IT systems from third-parties which we utilize, or third-party service providers' failure to provide adequate services could result in the disclosure of sensitive of confidential information or personal information or cause other business interruptions that could damage our reputation and disrupt our business. Interruption or poor design of our information systems, Internet, telecommunications systems or power failures could have a material adverse effect on our business, our reputation, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations.. Our managed services business requires us to monitor our customers' devices on their network in varying levels of service. If we have not designed our IT systems to provide this service accurately or if there is a security breach in our IT system or the customers' systems, we may be liable for claims.. We rely on the competency of our internal IT personnel. Our failure to hire, train and supervise competent IT personnel to secure our data, design redundant systems, or design and maintain our technology systems including our data and voice networks, and applications, could significantly interrupt our business causing a negative impact on our results.. Breaches of data security and the failure to protect our information technology systems from cybersecurity threats could adversely impact our business.. Our business involves the storage and transmission of proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data, including personal information of our employees, customers and others. In addition, we operate data centers for our customers that host their technology infrastructure and may store and transmit both business-critical data and confidential information. In connection with our services business, some of our employees also have access to our customers' confidential data and other information. We have privacy and data security policies in place that are designed to prevent security breaches; however, as newer technologies evolve, and the portfolio of the service providers we share confidential information with grows, we could be exposed to increased risk of breaches in security and other illegal or fraudulent acts, including cyberattacks. The evolving nature of such threats, in light of new and sophisticated methods used by criminals and cyberterrorists, including computer viruses, malware, phishing, misrepresentation, social engineering and forgery, are making it increasingly challenging to anticipate and adequately mitigate these risks.. 16. Table of Contents. We may not adequately protect ourselves through our contract vehicles, or our insurance policies may not be adequate to address potential losses or claims.. Our contracts may not protect us against the risks inherent in our business including, but not limited to, warranties, limitations of liability, indemnification obligations, human resources and subcontractor-related claims, patent and product liability, data security and privacy, and financing activities. Also, we face pressure from our customers for competitive pricing contract terms. Despite the non-recourse nature of the loans financing certain of our activities, non-recourse lenders may file suit if the underlying transaction turns out poorly for the lenders. We are subject to such claims and the cost of defending such claims due to the nature of our business.. We also are subject to audits by various vendor partners and customers, including government agencies, relating to purchases and sales under various contracts. In addition, we are subject to indemnification claims under various contracts.. If we fail to perform sufficient due diligence prior to completing an acquisition, or entering into a strategic alliance, or fail to integrate a completed acquisition our earnings may be affected.. Our ability to successfully integrate the operations we acquire, reduce costs, or leverage these operations to generate revenue and earnings growth, could significantly impact future revenue and earnings. Integrating acquired operations is a significant challenge, may divert management's attention from other business concerns, and there is no assurance that we will be able to manage the integrations successfully. Failure to successfully integrate acquired operations may adversely affect our cost structure thereby reducing our gross margins and return on investment. In addition, we may fail to perform adequate due diligence and acquire entities with unknown liabilities, fraud, cultural or business environment issues, or that may not have adequate internal controls as may be required by law.. If we acquire a company that does not fit culturally, strategically, or in some other fashion, the acquisition may not produce the expected results or may negatively affect our reputation, which may negatively affect our business, results of operations, or cash flows.. In addition, our financial results could be adversely affected by financial adjustments required by generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (\"GAAP\") in connection with these types of transactions where significant goodwill or intangible assets are recorded. To the extent the value of goodwill or identifiable intangible assets with indefinite lives becomes impaired; we may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. We depend on having creditworthy customers to avoid an adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition.. Our financing and technology segments require sufficient amounts of debt or equity capital to fund our equipment purchases. If the credit quality of our customer base materially decreases, or if we experience a material increase in our credit losses, we may find it difficult to continue to obtain the required capital for our business, and our operating results and financial condition may be harmed. In addition to the impact on our ability to attract capital, a material increase in our delinquency and default experience would itself have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. We are also subject to changes, if any, in our lenders' willingness to provide financing for different, particularly lower, credit quality lessees.. As of March 31, 2018 and 2017, we had reserves for credit losses of $2.7 million and $5.4 million, respectively. Our reserve for credit losses as of March 31, 2017 included a specific reserve of $3.2 million due to a customer that filed for bankruptcy in May 2012, which was written-off during our fiscal year 2018.. We may be liable for misappropriation of our customers' or employees' information.. Third-parties, such as hackers, could circumvent or sabotage the security practices and products used in our product and service offerings, and/or the security practices or products used in our internal IT systems, which could result in disclosure of sensitive or personal information, unauthorized procurement, or other business interruptions that could damage our reputation and disrupt our business. Attacks may range from random attempts to coordinated and targeted attacks, including sophisticated computer crime and advanced persistent threats.. 17. Table of Contents. If third-parties or our employees are able to penetrate our network security or otherwise misappropriate our customers' information or employees' personal information, or other information for which our customers may be responsible and for which we agree to be responsible in connection with service contracts into which we may enter, or if we give third-parties or our employees improper access to certain information, we could be subject to liability. This liability could include claims for unauthorized access to devices on our network; unauthorized access to our customers' networks, applications, devices, or software; unauthorized purchases with credit card information; and identity theft or other similar fraud-related claims. This liability could also include claims for other misuses of personal information. Other liability could include claims alleging misrepresentation of our privacy and data security practices. Any such liability for misappropriation of this information could decrease our profitability. In addition, federal and state agencies have been investigating various companies regarding whether they misused or inadequately secured information. We could incur additional expenses when new laws or regulations regarding the use of information are enacted, or if governmental agencies require us to substantially modify our privacy or security practices.. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography, or other events or developments may result in a compromise or breach of the security practices we use to protect sensitive customer transaction information and employee information. A party who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations. Further, third-parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or customers into disclosing sensitive information such as user names, passwords, or other information or otherwise compromise the security of our internal networks and/or our customers' information. Since techniques used to obtain unauthorized access change frequently and the size and severity of security breaches are increasing, we may be unable to implement adequate preventative measures or stop security breaches while they are occurring.. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches. Our security measures are designed to protect against security breaches, but our failure to prevent such security breaches could cause us to incur significant expense to investigate and respond to a security breach and correct any problems caused by any breach, subject us to liability, damage our reputation, and diminish the value of our brand. There can be no assurance that the limitations of liability in our contracts would be enforceable or adequate, or would otherwise protect us from any such liabilities or damages with respect to any particular claim. We also cannot be sure that our existing insurance coverage for errors and omissions will continue to be available on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims, or that our insurers will not deny coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceeds our available insurance coverage, or changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We may not be able to hire and/or retain personnel that we need.. To increase market awareness and sales of our offerings, we may need to expand our sales operations and marketing efforts in the future. Our products and services require a sophisticated sales effort and significant technical engineering talent. For example, our sales and engineering candidates must have highly technical hardware and software knowledge to create a customized solution for our customers' business processes. Competition for qualified sales, marketing and engineering personnel fluctuates depending on market conditions and we may not be able to hire or retain sufficient numbers of such personnel to maintain and grow our business. Frequently, our competitors require their employees to agree to non-compete and non-solicitation agreements as part of their employment. This makes it more difficult for us to hire, and increases our costs by reviewing and managing non-compete restrictions. Additionally, in some cases our relationship with a customer may be impacted by turnover in our sales or engineering team.. 18. Table of Contents. Failure to comply with our public sector contracts or applicable laws and regulations could result in, among other things, termination, fines or other liabilities, and changes in procurement regulations could adversely impact our business.. Revenues in our public sector are derived from sales to state and local government and educational institution (\"SLED\") customers, through various contracts and open market sales of products and services. Sales to SLED customers are highly regulated. Noncompliance with contract provisions, government procurement regulations, or other applicable laws or regulations could result in civil, criminal, and administrative liability, including substantial monetary fines or damages, termination of SLED sector customer contracts, and suspension, debarment, or ineligibility from doing business with the government and other customers in the SLED sector. In addition, contracts in the SLED sector are generally terminable at any time for convenience of the contracting agency or upon default, and are subject to audits. The effect of any of these possible actions could adversely affect our business, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, the adoption of new or modified procurement regulations and other requirements may increase our compliance costs and reduce our gross margins, which could have a negative effect on our business, results of operations, or cash flows.. Loss of services by any of our executive officers or senior management and/or failure to successfully implement our succession plan could adversely affect our business.. The loss of the services by our executive officers or senior management and/or failure to successfully implement a succession plan could disrupt management of our business and impair the execution of our business strategies. We believe that our success depends in part upon our ability to retain the services of our executive officers and senior management and successfully implement a succession plan. Our executive officers are at the forefront in determining our strategic direction and focus. The loss of our executive officers' and senior management's services without replacement by qualified successors could adversely affect our ability to manage effectively our overall operations and successfully execute current or future business strategies, and could cause other instability within our workforce. We face substantial competition from other companies.. In our technology segment, we compete in all areas of our business against local, regional, national, and international firms, including other direct marketers; national and regional resellers; and regional, national, and international service providers. In addition, we face competition from vendors, which may choose to market their products directly to end-users, rather than through channel partners such as our company, and this could adversely affect our future sales. Many competitors compete based principally on price and may have lower costs or accept lower selling prices than we do and, therefore, our gross margins may not be maintainable. Our competitors may offer better or different products and services than we offer. In addition, we do not have guaranteed purchasing volume commitments from our customers and, therefore, our sales volume may be volatile.. In our financing segment, we face competition from many sources including much larger companies with greater financial resources. Our competition may originate from vendors of the products we finance or financial partners who choose to market directly to customers through the vendors' captive leasing organization or large or regional financial institutions such as banks with substantially lower cost of funds. Our competition may lower lease rates to increase market share.. We rely on inventory and accounts receivable financing arrangements for working capital and our accounts payable processing.. The loss of the technology segment's credit facility could have a material adverse effect on our future results as we rely on this facility and its components for daily working capital and the operational function of our accounts payable process. Our credit agreement contains various covenants that must be met each quarter. There can be no assurance that we will continue to meet those covenants and failure to do so may limit availability of, or cause us to lose, such financing. There can be no assurance that such financing will continue to be available to us in the future on acceptable terms.. 19. Table of Contents. Failure to comply with new laws or changes to existing laws may adversely impact our business.. Our operations are subject to numerous U.S. and foreign laws and regulations in a number of areas including, but not limited to, areas of labor and employment, immigration, advertising, e-commerce, tax, import and export requirements, anti-corruption, data privacy requirements, anti-competition, and environmental, health, and safety. Compliance with these laws, regulations, and similar requirements may be onerous and expensive, and they may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, further increasing the cost of compliance and doing business, and the risk of noncompliance. We have implemented policies and procedures designed to help ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations, but there can be no guarantee against employees, contractors, or agents violating such laws and regulations or our policies and procedures.. Changes in accounting rules, or the misapplication of current accounting rules, may adversely affect our future financial results.. We prepare our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the SEC, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (\"AICPA\") and various other bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. Future periodic assessments required by current or new accounting standards may result in noncash charges and/or changes in presentation or disclosure. In addition, any change in accounting standards may influence our customers' decision to purchase from us or finance transactions with us, which could have a significant adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations.. We are required to determine if we are the principal or agent in all transactions with our customers. The voluminous number of products and services we sell, and the manner in which they are bundled, are technologically complex. Mischaracterization of these products and services could result in misapplication of revenue recognition polices. We use estimates where necessary, such as allowance for doubtful accounts and the cost to perform professional and managed services, which require judgment and are based on best available information. If we are unable to accurately estimate the cost of these services or the time-line for completion of contracts, the profitability of our contracts may be materially and adversely affected.. If we publish inaccurate catalog content data, our business could suffer.. Any defects or errors in our electronic catalog content data could harm our customers or deter businesses from participating in our offerings, damage our business reputation, harm our ability to attract new customers, and potentially expose us to liability. In addition, from time to time vendors who provide us electronic catalog data could submit to us inaccurate pricing or other catalog data. Even though such inaccuracies are not caused by our work and are outside of our control, such inaccuracies could deter current and potential customers from using our products or result in inaccurate pricing to our customers.. We may not be able to realize our entire investment in the equipment we lease.. The realization of the residual value of the equipment we lease, predominantly at the end of the term of a lease, as well as during the life of the lease, is an important element in our financing segment. At the inception of each lease, we record a residual value for the leased equipment based on our estimate of the value of the equipment at the expected disposition date.. A decrease in the market value of leased equipment at a rate greater than the rate we projected, whether due to rapid technological or economic obsolescence, excessive or unusual wear and tear on the equipment, or other factors, would adversely affect the recoverability of the estimated residual values of such equipment. Further, certain equipment residual values are dependent on the vendor's warranties, reputation, rules regarding relicensing of software to operate the equipment, and other factors, including market liquidity. In addition, we may not realize the full market value of equipment if we are required to sell it to meet liquidity needs or for other reasons outside of the ordinary course of business. Consequently, there can be no assurance that we will realize our estimated residual values for equipment.. 20. Table of Contents. The degree of residual realization risk varies by transaction type. Direct financing leases bear less risk because contractual payments typically cover 90% or more of the equipment's lease cost at inception. Operating leases have a higher degree of risk because a smaller percentage of the equipment's value is covered by contractual cash flows at lease inception.. Our earnings may fluctuate, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock.. Our earnings are susceptible to fluctuations for a number of reasons, including, but not limited to, the risk factors discussed herein. In the event our sales or net earnings are less than the level expected by the market in general, such shortfall could have an immediate and significant adverse impact on the market price of our common stock.. We may be required to take impairment charges for goodwill or other intangible assets related to acquisitions.. We have acquired certain portions of our business and assets through acquisitions. Further, as part of our long-term business strategy, we may continue to pursue acquisitions of other companies or assets. In connection with prior acquisitions, we have accounted for the portion of the purchase price paid in excess of the book value of the assets acquired as goodwill or intangible assets, and we may be required to account for similar premiums paid on future acquisitions in the same manner.. Under the applicable accounting principles, goodwill is not amortized and is carried on our books at its original value, subject to annual review and evaluation for impairment, whereas intangible assets are amortized over the life of the asset. Changes in the business itself, the economic environment (including business valuation levels and trends), or the legislative or regulatory environment may trigger a review and evaluation of our goodwill and intangible assets for potential impairment outside of the normal review periods. These changes may adversely affect either the fair value of the business or our individual reporting units and we may be required to take an impairment charge.. If market and economic conditions deteriorate, this could increase the likelihood that we will need to record impairment charges to the extent the carrying value of our goodwill exceeds the fair value of our overall business. Such impairment charges could materially adversely affect our net earnings during the period in which the charge is taken. As of March 31, 2018, we had goodwill and other intangible assets of $76.6 million and $26.3 million, respectively.. We face risks of claims from third-parties for intellectual property infringement that could harm our business.. We may be subject to claims that our products and services, or products that we resell, infringe on the intellectual property rights of third-parties. The vendor of certain products or services we resell may not provide us with indemnification for infringement; however, our customers may seek indemnification from us. We could incur substantial costs in defending infringement claims against ourselves and our customers. In the event of a claim of infringement, we and our customers may be required to obtain one or more licenses from third-parties. We may not be able to obtain such licenses from third-parties at a reasonable cost or at all. Defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any such required license could significantly increase our expenses and/or adversely affect our ability to offer one or more of our services.. Our results of operations are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency.. Our subsidiaries IGXGlobal UK Limited. and IGX Capital UK, Ltd. were formed and operate in the U.K. We also have an Indian subsidiary, Cloud Uno Ltd, which operates in India and a Singapore subsidiary, Cloud Uno, which operates in Singapore. As result of these foreign presences, we have additional exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency rates resulting primarily from the translation exposure associated with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. We also have a Canadian subsidiary, ePlus Canada Company, which owns property in Canada. While our consolidated financial statements are reported in U.S. dollars, the financial statements of our subsidiaries outside the U.S. are prepared using the local currency as the functional currency and translated into U.S. dollars. As a result, fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar relative to the local currencies of our international subsidiaries in Canada and the U.K. could cause fluctuations in our results of operations. We also have foreign currency exposure to the extent net sales and purchases are not denominated in a subsidiary's functional currency, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or cash flows.. 21. Table of Contents. Our software products and services subject us to challenges and risks in a rapidly evolving market.. As a provider of a comprehensive set of solutions, which involves the bundling of direct IT sales, advanced professional and managed services, and financing with our proprietary software, we expect to encounter some of the challenges, risks, difficulties, and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies providing bundled solutions in rapidly evolving markets. Some of these challenges include our ability to increase the total number of users of our services, adapt to meet changes in our markets and competitive developments, or continue to update our technology to enhance the features and functionality of our suite of products. Our business strategy may not be successful or successfully address these and other challenges, risks, and uncertainties.. In the software market, a number of companies market business-to-business electronic commerce solutions similar to ours, and competitors are adapting their product offerings to a SaaS platform. We may not be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors, and competitive pressures faced by us may harm our business, operating results, or financial condition. We also face indirect competition from potential customers' internal development efforts and have to overcome potential customers' reluctance to move away from legacy systems and processes.. In all of our markets, some of our competitors have longer operating histories and greater financial, technical, marketing, and other resources than we do. In addition, some of these competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities, technologies, and customer requirements. Many current competitors may have, and potential competitors may have, greater name recognition, engage in more extensive promotional marketing and advertising activities, offer more attractive terms to customers, and adopt more aggressive pricing and credit policies than we do. We may not be successful in achieving revenue growth and may incur additional costs associated with our software products, which may have a material adverse effect on our future operating results as a whole.. If our proprietary software products contain defects, our business could suffer.. Products as complex as those used to provide our electronic commerce solutions or cloud automation solutions, such as scripts, often contain unknown and undetected errors, performance problems, or use open source code. We may have serious defects immediately following introduction of new products or enhancements to existing products. Undetected errors or performance problems may not be discovered in the future and certain errors we consider to be minor may be serious to our customers. Our software products, or automation solutions, may be circumvented or sabotaged by third-parties such as hackers, which could result in the disclosure of sensitive information or personal information, unauthorized procurement, or cause other business interruptions that could damage our reputation and disrupt our business. Attacks may range from random attempts to coordinated and targeted attacks, including sophisticated computer crime and advanced persistent threats. In addition, our customers may experience a loss in connectivity by our proprietary software solutions because of a power loss at our data center, Internet interruption, or defects in our software. This could result in lost revenues, delays in customer acceptance, security breaches, and unforeseen liabilities that would be detrimental to our reputation and to our business.. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property and costs to protect our intellectual property may affect our earnings.. The success of our business strategy depends, in part, upon proprietary technology and other intellectual property rights. To date, we have relied primarily on a combination of copyright, trademark, patent, and trade secret laws, and contractual provisions with our customers, subcontractors and employees to protect our proprietary technology. It may be possible for unauthorized third-parties to copy certain portions of our products or reverse engineer or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Some of our agreements with our customers and technology licensors contain residual clauses regarding confidentiality and the rights of third-parties to obtain the source code for our products. These provisions may limit our ability to protect our intellectual property rights in the future that could seriously harm our business and operating results. Our means of protecting our intellectual property rights may not be adequate.. 22. Table of Contents. The legal and associated costs to protect our intellectual property may significantly increase our expenses and have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We may deem it necessary to protect our intellectual property rights and significant expenses could be incurred with no certainty of the results of these potential actions. Costs relative to lawsuits are usually expensed in the periods incurred and there is no certainty in recouping any of the amounts expended regardless of the outcome of any action.. If securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our company, or if they issue unfavorable commentary about us or our industry or downgrade our common stock, the price of our common stock could decline.. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that third-party securities analysts publish about us and our industry. One or more analysts could downgrade our common stock, or issue other negative commentary about us or our industry. If one or more of the analysts that covers us cease coverage, we could lose visibility in the market or such discontinuance may be viewed negatively by the market. As a result of one or more of these factors, the trading price of our common stock could decline.. Future offerings of debt or equity securities, which would rank senior to our common stock, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. If, in the future, we decide to issue debt or equity securities that rank senior to our common stock, it is likely that such securities will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility. Additionally, any convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our common stock, and may result in dilution to owners of our common stock. We and, indirectly, our stockholders, will bear the cost of issuing and servicing such securities. Because our decision to issue debt or equity securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing, or nature of our future offerings, if any. Thus, holders of our common stock will bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting the value of their stock holdings in our common stock.. 23. Table of Contents"
