[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. There are many risks and uncertainties that can affect our current or future business, operating results, financial performance or share price. The following discussion describes important factors which could adversely affect our current or future business, operating results, financial condition or share price. This discussion includes a number of forward-looking statements. See \"Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements.\". Risks That May Impact Our Financial Condition or Performance. Global economic uncertainty and disruptions in the financial markets may impair our ability to refinance existing obligations or obtain new financing for acquisition or development of properties.. There continues to be global economic uncertainty. Increased uncertainty in the wake of the \"Brexit\" referendum in the United Kingdom in June 2016, in which the majority of voters voted in favor of an exit from the European Union, the formal notice by the United Kingdom in March 2017 of its exit from the European Union, as well as political changes in the U.S. and abroad, have contributed to volatility in the global financial markets. Although the U.S. economy. 9. has continued to improve, there can be no assurances that the U.S. economy will continue to improve or that a future recession will not occur. We rely in part on debt financing to finance our investments and development. To the extent that turmoil in the financial markets returns or intensifies, it has the potential to adversely affect our ability to refinance our existing obligations as they mature or obtain new financing for acquisition or development of properties and adversely affect the value of our investments. If we are unable to refinance existing indebtedness on attractive terms at its maturity, we may be forced to dispose of some of our assets. Uncertain economic conditions and disruptions in the financial markets could also result in a substantial decrease in the value of our investments, which could also make it more difficult to refinance existing obligations or obtain new financing.. Many of our customers, consisting of tenants and borrowers, operate in market segments that depend upon discretionary spending by consumers. Any reduction in discretionary spending by consumers within the market segments in which our customers or potential customers operate could adversely affect such customers' operations and, in turn, reduce the demand for our properties or financing solutions.. Most of our portfolio is leased to or financed with customers operating service or retail businesses on our property locations.  Movie theatres, entertainment retail centers, recreation and entertainment venues, early childhood education centers, private K-12 schools, ski properties and attractions represent some of the largest market investments in our portfolio; and AMC, Topgolf, Regal Cinemas, Inc. and Cinemark USA, Inc. represented our largest customers for the year ended December 31, 2017. The success of most of these businesses depends on the willingness or ability of consumers to use their discretionary income to purchase our customers' products or services. A downturn in the economy could cause consumers to reduce their discretionary spending within the market segments in which our customers or potential customers operate, which could adversely affect such customers' operations and, in turn, reduce the demand for our properties or financing solutions.. Adverse changes in our credit ratings could impair our ability to obtain additional debt and equity financing on favorable terms, if at all, and negatively impact the market price of our securities, including our common shares.. The credit ratings of our senior unsecured debt and preferred equity securities are based on our operating performance, liquidity and leverage ratios, overall financial position and other factors employed by the credit rating agencies in their rating analyses of us. Our credit ratings can affect the amount and type of capital we can access, as well as the terms of any financings we may obtain. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings and in the event that our current credit ratings deteriorate, we would likely incur a higher cost of capital and it may be more difficult or expensive to obtain additional financing or refinance existing obligations and commitments. Also, a downgrade in our credit ratings would trigger additional costs or other potentially negative consequences under our current and future credit facilities and debt instruments.. An increase in interest rates could increase interest cost on new debt, and could materially adversely impact our ability to refinance existing debt, sell assets and limit our acquisition and development activities.. The U.S. Federal Reserve increased its benchmark interest rate multiple times in 2017 and has continued signaling that rates could continue to rise. If interest rates continue to increase, so could our interest costs for any new debt. This increased cost could make the financing of any acquisition and development activity more costly. Rising interest rates could limit our ability to refinance existing debt when it matures, or cause us to pay higher interest rates upon refinancing and increase interest expense on refinanced indebtedness. In addition, an increase in interest rates could decrease the amount third parties are willing to pay for our assets, thereby limiting our ability to reposition our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions.. We previously made a significant investment in a planned casino and resort development (the \"Resorts World Catskills Project\"), which is now the subject of ongoing litigation. We cannot predict the duration or outcome of this litigation. Prolonged litigation or an unfavorable outcome could have a material adverse effect on the Resorts World Catskills Project or our financial condition and results of operations.. Prior proposed casino and resort developers Concord Associates, L.P., Concord Resort, LLC and Concord Kiamesha LLC, which are affiliates of Louis Cappelli and from whom we acquired the Resorts World Catskills resort property (the \"Cappelli Group\"), commenced litigation against the Company beginning in 2011 regarding matters relating to the acquisition of that property and our relationship with Empire Resorts, Inc. (\"Empire Resorts\") and certain of its subsidiaries (together with Empire Resorts, collectively, the \"Empire Project Parties\"). This litigation involves three. 10. separate cases filed in state and federal court.  Two of the cases, a state and the federal case, are closed and resulted in no liability to the Company.. The remaining case was filed on October 20, 2011 by the Cappelli Group against the Company and two of its affiliates in the Supreme Court of the State of New York, County of Westchester (the \"Westchester Action\"), asserting a claim for breach of contract and the implied covenant of good faith, and seeking damages of at least $800 million, based on allegations that the Company had breached an agreement (the \"Casino Development Agreement\"), dated June 18, 2010. We moved to dismiss the complaint in the Westchester Action based on a decision issued by the Sullivan County Supreme Court (one of the two closed cases discussed above) on June 30, 2014, as affirmed by the Appellate Division, Third Department (the \"Sullivan Action\"). On January 26, 2016, the Westchester County Supreme Court denied the our motion to dismiss but ordered the Cappelli Group to amend its pleading and remove all claims and allegations previously determined by the Sullivan Action. On February 18, 2016, the Cappelli Group filed an amended complaint asserting a single cause of action for breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing based upon allegations the Company had interfered with plaintiffs' ability to obtain financing which complied with the Casino Development Agreement. On March 23, 2016, the Company filed a motion to dismiss the Cappelli Group's revised amended complaint. On January 5, 2017, the Westchester County Supreme Court denied the Company's second motion to dismiss.  Discovery is ongoing.. We believe we have meritorious defenses to this litigation and intend to defend it vigorously. There can be no assurances, however, as to the duration or ultimate outcome of this litigation, nor can there be any assurances as to the costs we may incur in defending against or resolving this litigation. In addition, if the outcome of the litigation is unfavorable to us, it could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. The success of the Resorts World Catskills Project is largely dependent upon the successful development and operation of the Resorts World Casino and Resort, which requires the Empire Project Parties to comply with the terms of a gaming license.  If Empire Resorts fails to satisfy its obligations under the gaming license, the Resorts World Catskills Project may be indefinitely delayed or canceled, and if we are unable to identify suitable alternative uses for the property, this could lead to a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. On December 21, 2015, Montreign Operating Company, LLC (\"Montreign\"), a subsidiary of Empire Resorts, was awarded a license (a \"Gaming Facility License\") by the New York State Gaming Commission to operate the Resorts World Catskills Casino and Resort, a key component of the Resorts World Catskills Project. On January 17, 2018, the Resorts World Catskills Casino and Resort announced its plans to open the casino resort to the public on February 8, 2018.  The Gaming Facility License is subject to a number of conditions, including the requirement that Montreign invest, or cause to be invested, no less than $854 million in the initial phase of the Resorts World Catskills Project, as well as additional and continuing regulatory conditions imposed by the Gaming Commission.. There can be no assurance that the Resorts World Catskills Casino and Resort will fully comply with the financial or other conditions of the Gaming Facility License. In the event it fails to comply with the conditions of the Gaming Facility License, the Resorts World Catskills Project may be indefinitely delayed or canceled, and there can be no assurance that a suitable alternate use for the property, whether involving gaming or otherwise, will be identified, which could result in a material adverse effect on our investment and on our financial condition and results of operations.. We expect to finance the cost of construction of common infrastructure at the Resorts World Catskills Project primarily through the issuance of tax-exempt public infrastructure bonds, and we could overrun budgeted costs for such infrastructure construction, which could significantly exceed the proceeds from the issuance of such bonds.. We are responsible for the construction of the Resorts World Catskills Project common infrastructure, which is expected to be financed primarily through the issuance of tax-exempt public infrastructure bonds. The debt service of these bonds is expected to be paid primarily through special assessments levied against the property held by the benefited users.  In June 2016, the Sullivan County Infrastructure Local Development Corporation issued $110.0 million of Series 2016 Revenue Bonds, which is expected to fund a substantial portion of such construction costs. We received an initial reimbursement of $43.4 million of construction costs and additional reimbursements of  $23.9 million during the year ended December 31, 2017, and we expect to receive an additional $21.0 million of reimbursements over the balance of the construction period, which is expected to be completed in 2018. There can be no assurance that the cost of construction of common infrastructure for the Resorts World Catskills Project will not exceed our budgeted amounts. 11. of approximately $90.0 million, subject to budget adjustments and related approvals. If so, such excess may not be funded by the tax-exempt public infrastructure bonds and, to the extent they exceed certain negotiated caps, or are allocated to land held by us for development, may not be proportionately recovered from our tenants.. We depend on leasing space to tenants on economically favorable terms and collecting rent from our tenants, who may not be able to pay.. At any time, a tenant may experience a downturn in its business that may weaken its financial condition. Similarly, a general decline in the economy may result in a decline in demand for space at our commercial properties. Our financial results depend significantly on leasing space at our properties to tenants on economically favorable terms. In addition, because a majority of our income comes from leasing real property, our income, funds available to pay indebtedness and funds available for distribution to our shareholders will decrease if a significant number of our tenants cannot pay their rent or if we are not able to maintain our levels of occupancy on favorable terms. If our tenants cannot pay their rent or we are not able to maintain our levels of occupancy on favorable terms, there is also a risk that the fair value of the underlying property will be considered less than its carrying value and we may have to take a charge against earnings. In addition, if a tenant does not pay its rent, we might not be able to enforce our rights as landlord without significant delays and substantial legal costs.. If a tenant becomes bankrupt or insolvent, that could diminish or eliminate the income we expect from that tenant's leases. If a tenant becomes insolvent or bankrupt, we cannot be sure that we could recover the premises from the tenant promptly or from a trustee or debtor-in-possession in a bankruptcy proceeding relating to the tenant. On the other hand, a bankruptcy court might authorize the tenant to terminate its leases with us. If that happens, our claim against the bankrupt tenant for unpaid future rent would be subject to statutory limitations that might be substantially less than the remaining rent owed under the leases. In addition, any claim we have for unpaid past rent would likely not be paid in full and we would also have to take a charge against earnings for any accrued straight-line rent receivable related to the leases.. We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers and counterparties and their failure to meet their financial obligations could adversely affect our business.. Our business is subject to credit risk. There is a risk that a customer or counterparty will fail to meet its obligations when due. Customers and counterparties that owe us money may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. Although we have procedures for reviewing credit exposures to specific customers and counterparties to address present credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. Some of our risk management methods depend upon the evaluation of information regarding markets, clients or other matters that are publicly available or otherwise accessible by us. That information may not, in all cases, be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. In addition, concerns about, or a default by, one customer or counterparty could lead to significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other customers or counterparties, which in turn could adversely affect us. We may be materially and adversely affected in the event of a significant default by our customers and counterparties.. We could be adversely affected by a borrower's bankruptcy or default.. If a borrower becomes bankrupt or insolvent or defaults under its loan, that could force us to declare a default and foreclose on any available collateral. As a result, future interest income recognition related to the applicable note receivable could be significantly reduced or eliminated. There is also a risk that the fair value of the collateral, if any, will be less than the carrying value of the note and accrued interest receivable at the time of a foreclosure and we may have to take a charge against earnings. If a property serves as collateral for a note, we may experience costs and delays in recovering the property in foreclosure or finding a substitute operator for the property. If a mortgage we hold is subordinated to senior financing secured by the property, our recovery would be limited to any amount remaining after satisfaction of all amounts due to the holder of the senior financing. In addition, to protect our subordinated investment, we may desire to refinance any senior financing. However, there is no assurance that such refinancing would be available or, if it were to be available, that the terms would be attractive.. The base terms of some of our theatre leases are expiring and there is no assurance that such leases will be renewed at existing lease terms or that we can lease any re-claimed space from some of our larger theatres at economically favorable terms.. 12. The base terms of some of our theatre leases are expiring. For theatres that are not performing as well as they did in the past, the tenants have and may continue to seek rent or other concessions or not renew at all. Furthermore, some tenants of our larger megaplex theatres desire to down-size the theatres they lease to respond to market trends. As a result, these tenants have and may continue to seek rent or other concessions from us, including requiring us to down-size the theatres or otherwise modify the properties in order to renew their leases. Furthermore, while any such screen reductions would likely create opportunities to reclaim a portion of the former theatres for conversion to other uses, there is no guarantee that we can re-lease such space or that such leases would be at economically favorable terms.. Operating risks in the entertainment industry may affect the ability of our tenants to perform under their leases.. The ability of our tenants to operate successfully in the entertainment industry and remain current on their lease obligations depends on a number of factors, including the availability and popularity of motion pictures, the performance of those pictures in tenants' markets, the allocation of popular pictures to tenants, the release window (represents the time that elapses from the date of a picture's theatrical release to the date it is available on other mediums) and the terms on which the pictures are licensed. Neither we nor our tenants control the operations of motion picture distributors. There can be no assurances that motion picture distributors will continue to rely on theatres as the primary means of distributing first-run films, and motion picture distributors may in the future consider alternative film delivery methods. The success of \"out-of-home\" entertainment venues such as megaplex theatres, entertainment retail centers and recreational properties also depends on general economic conditions and the willingness of consumers to spend time and money on out-of-home entertainment.. In addition, some of our theatre tenants have disclosed that they are subject to pending anti-trust investigations by the U.S. Department of Justice and several states regarding such tenants' alleged anticompetitive practices, including seeking agreements with motion picture distributors for exclusive rights to releases in certain markets.  There can be no assurances as to the outcome of such investigations or whether such investigations will materially adversely affect such tenants' operations and, in turn, their ability to perform under their leases.. Real estate is a competitive business.. Our business operates in highly competitive environments. We compete with a large number of real estate property owners and developers, some of which may be willing to accept lower returns on their investments. Principal factors of competition are rent or interest charged, attractiveness of location, the quality of the property and breadth and quality of services provided. If our competitors offer space at rental rates below the rental rates we are currently charging our tenants, we may lose potential tenants, and we may be pressured to reduce our rental rates below those we currently charge in order to retain tenants when our tenants' leases expire. Our success depends upon, among other factors, trends of the national and local economies, financial condition and operating results of current and prospective tenants and customers, availability and cost of capital, construction and renovation costs, taxes, governmental regulations, legislation and population trends.. A single tenant represents a substantial portion of our lease revenues.. AMC theatres, one of the nation's largest movie exhibition companies, is the lessee of a substantial number of our megaplex theatre properties.  On December 21, 2016, AMC announced that it closed its acquisition of Carmike cinemas upon which AMC became responsible for Carmike's performance under its leases with us.  For the year ended December 31, 2017, approximately $114.4 million or 19.9% of our total revenues were derived from rental payments by AMC (including rental payments for Carmike).  AMC Entertainment, Inc. (\"AMCE\") has guaranteed AMC's performance under substantially all of their leases. We have diversified and expect to continue to diversify our real estate portfolio by entering into lease transactions with a number of other leading operators or by acquiring or seeking to acquire other properties. Nevertheless, our revenues and our continuing ability to service our debt and pay shareholder dividends are currently substantially dependent on AMC's performance under its leases, including the leases acquired in the Carmike acquisition, and AMCE's performance under its guarantee.. We believe AMC occupies a strong position in the industry and we intend to continue acquiring and leasing back or developing new AMC theatres. However, AMC and AMCE are susceptible to the same risks as our other tenants described herein. If for any reason AMC failed to perform under its lease obligations, including the leases acquired in the Carmike acquisition, and AMCE did not perform under its guarantee, we could be required to reduce or suspend our shareholder dividends and may not have sufficient funds to support operations or service our debt until substitute. 13. tenants are obtained. If that happened, we cannot predict when or whether we could obtain substitute quality tenants on acceptable terms.. Public charter schools are operated pursuant to charters granted by various state or other regulatory authorities and are dependent upon compliance with the terms of such charters in order to obtain funding from local, state and federal governments. We could be adversely affected by a public charter school's failure to comply with its charter, non-renewal of a charter upon expiration or by its reduction or loss of funding.. Our public charter school properties operate pursuant to charters granted by various state or other regulatory authorities, which are generally shorter than our lease terms, and most of the schools have undergone or expect to undergo compliance audits or reviews by such regulatory authorities. Such audits and reviews examine the financial as well as the academic performance of the school. Adverse audit or review findings could result in non-renewal or revocation of a public charter school's charter, or in some cases, a reduction in the amount of state funding, repayment of previously received state funding or other economic sanctions. Our public charter school tenants are also dependent upon funding from local, state and federal governments, which are currently experiencing budgetary constraints, and any reduction or loss of such funding could adversely affect a public charter school's ability to comply with its charter and/or pay its obligations.. Our master lease agreement with Imagine Schools, Inc. (\"Imagine\") provides certain contractual protections designed to mitigate risk, such as risk arising from the revocation of a charter of one or more Imagine schools.  Subject to our approval and certain other terms and conditions, the master lease agreement also allows Imagine to repurchase from us the public charter school properties that are causing technical defaults.  Imagine may, in substitution for such properties, sell to us public charter school properties that would otherwise comply with the lease agreement.  However, there is no guarantee that acceptable schools will be available for substitutions or that such substitutions or repurchases will be completed. In addition, while governing authorities may approve substitute operators for failed public charter schools to ensure continuity for students, we cannot predict when or whether applicable governing authorities would approve such substitute operators, nor can we predict whether we could reach lease agreements with such substitute tenants on acceptable terms. In addition, Imagine has in certain previous sales of properties to third parties agreed to pay us the difference between our carrying value and the sales price. Imagine also has a mortgage note obligation to us as a result of sales of certain properties to Imagine. If Imagine or any other operator is unable to provide adequate substitute collateral under its lease with us, and/or is unable to pay its obligations, we may be required to record an impairment loss or sell schools for less than their net book value.. Our build-to-suit education tenants may not achieve sufficient enrollment within expected timeframes and therefore may not be able to pay their agreed upon rent, which could adversely affect our financial results.. A significant portion of our education investments include investments in build-to-suit projects. When construction is completed for these projects, tenants may require some period of time to achieve full enrollment, and we may provide them with lease terms that are more favorable to the tenant during this timeframe. Tenants that fail to achieve sufficient enrollment within expected timeframes may be unable to pay their rent pursuant to the agreed upon lease terms or at all. If we are required to restructure lease terms or take other action with respect to the applicable property, our financial results may be impacted by lower lease revenues, recording an impairment loss, writing off rental amounts or otherwise.. During 2017, cash flow of Children's Learning Adventure USA, LLC (\"CLA\") was negatively impacted by challenges brought on by its rapid expansion and related ramp up to stabilization and by adverse weather events in Texas during the third quarter of 2017. During 2017, we participated in negotiations among CLA and other landlords regarding a potential restructuring. Although negotiations are on-going and progress has been made toward a restructuring, investments necessary to accomplish the restructuring have not yet been secured.  Certain subsidiaries of CLA who are tenants under our leases have filed Chapter 11 petitions in bankruptcy seeking the protections of the Bankruptcy Code.  We intend to pursue legal remedies to secure possession of these properties as expeditiously as possible. We believe that the time it will take to achieve this outcome gives CLA ample opportunity to negotiate a restructuring which, if successful, would obviate the need to evict CLA from these properties. There can be no assurances as to the ultimate outcome of such a restructuring or our pursuit of our legal remedies with respect to these properties.. 14. We are subject to risks relating to provisions included in some of our leases or financing arrangements with operators of our education properties pursuant to which such operators have the option to purchase leased properties or prepay notes relating to financed education properties.. Some of our leases or financing arrangements with education operators include provisions pursuant to which tenant operators may purchase leased properties and mortgagor operators may prepay notes relating to financed education properties, in each case, subject to option exercise payments or prepayment penalties.  Some of these tenant or mortgagor operators may be able to obtain alternative financing on more economically favorable terms, in which case, such operators may choose to exercise their purchase option or prepayment right.  If such operators exercise their purchase options or prepayment rights, we cannot provide any assurances that we would be able to redeploy the capital associated with these properties in other investments or that such investments would provide comparable returns, which could reduce our earnings going forward.  Additionally, it can be difficult to forecast when tenants will exercise their purchase option or borrowers will prepay, which can create volatility in our earnings.. Our indebtedness may affect our ability to operate our business and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We have a significant amount of indebtedness.  As of  December 31, 2017, we had total debt outstanding of approximately $3.1 billion.  Our indebtedness could have important consequences, such as:. • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund our working capital needs, acquisitions, capital expenditures or other debt service requirements or for other purposes;. • limiting our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business because we must dedicate a substantial portion of these funds to service debt;. • limiting our ability to compete with other companies who are not as highly leveraged, as we may be less capable of responding to adverse economic and industry conditions;. • restricting us from making strategic acquisitions, developing properties or exploiting business opportunities;. • restricting the way in which we conduct our business because of financial and operating covenants in the agreements governing our existing and future indebtedness;. • exposing us to potential events of default (if not cured or waived) under financial and operating covenants contained in our debt instruments that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results;. • increasing our vulnerability to a downturn in general economic conditions or in pricing of our investments;. • negatively impacting our credit ratings; and. • limiting our ability to react to changing market conditions in our industry and in our customers' industries.. In addition to our debt service obligations, our operations require substantial investments on a continuing basis. Our ability to make scheduled debt payments, to refinance our obligations with respect to our indebtedness and to fund capital and non-capital expenditures necessary to meet our remaining commitments on existing projects and maintain the condition of our assets, as well as to provide capacity for the growth of our business, depends on our financial and operating performance, which, in turn, is subject to prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, competitive, legal and other factors.. Subject to the restrictions in our unsecured revolving credit facility, our unsecured term loan facility and the debt instruments governing our existing senior notes, we may incur significant additional indebtedness, including additional secured indebtedness. Although the terms of our unsecured revolving credit facility, our unsecured term loan facility and the debt instruments governing our existing senior notes contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional. 15. indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be significant. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the risks described above could increase.. There are risks inherent in having indebtedness and the use of such indebtedness to fund acquisitions.. We currently use debt to fund portions of our operations and acquisitions. In a rising interest rate environment, the cost of our existing variable rate debt and any new debt will increase. We have used leverage to acquire properties and expect to continue to do so in the future. Although the use of leverage is common in the real estate industry, our use of debt exposes us to some risks. If a significant number of our tenants fail to make their lease payments and we do not have sufficient cash to pay principal and interest on the debt, we could default on our debt obligations. A small amount of our debt financing is secured by mortgages on our properties and we may enter into additional secured mortgage financing in the future.  If we fail to meet our mortgage payments, the lenders could declare a default and foreclose on those properties.. Most of our debt instruments contain balloon payments which may adversely impact our financial performance and our ability to pay dividends.. Most of our financing arrangements require us to make a lump-sum or \"balloon\" payment at maturity. There can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance such debt on favorable terms or at all. To the extent we cannot refinance such debt on favorable terms or at all, we may be forced to dispose of properties on disadvantageous terms or pay higher interest rates, either of which would have an adverse impact on our financial performance and ability to pay dividends to our shareholders.. We must obtain new financing in order to grow.. As a REIT, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our taxable net income to shareholders in the form of dividends. Other than deciding to make these dividends in our common shares, we are limited in our ability to use internal capital to acquire properties and must continually raise new capital in order to continue to grow and diversify our investment portfolio. Our ability to raise new capital depends in part on factors beyond our control, including conditions in equity and credit markets, conditions in the industries in which our tenants are engaged and the performance of real estate investment trusts generally. We continually consider and evaluate a variety of potential transactions to raise additional capital, but we cannot assure that attractive alternatives will always be available to us, nor that our share price will increase or remain at a level that will permit us to continue to raise equity capital publicly or privately.. Covenants in our debt instruments could adversely affect our financial condition and our acquisitions and development activities.. Some of our properties are subject to mortgages that contain customary covenants such as those that limit our ability, without the prior consent of the lender, to further mortgage the applicable property or to discontinue insurance coverage. Our unsecured revolving credit facility, term loan facility, senior notes and other loans that we may obtain in the future contain certain cross-default provisions as well as customary restrictions, requirements and other limitations on our ability to incur indebtedness, including covenants involving our maximum total debt to total asset value; maximum permitted investments; minimum tangible net worth; maximum secured debt to total asset value; maximum unsecured debt to eligible unencumbered properties; minimum unsecured interest coverage; and minimum fixed charge coverage. Our ability to borrow under our unsecured revolving credit facility and our term loan facility is also subject to compliance with certain other covenants.  We also have senior notes issued in a private placement transaction that are subject to certain covenants.  In addition, failure to comply with our covenants could cause a default under the applicable debt instrument, and we may then be required to repay such debt with capital from other sources. Under those circumstances, other sources of capital may not be available to us, or be available only on unattractive terms. Additionally, our ability to satisfy current or prospective lenders' insurance requirements may be adversely affected if lenders generally insist upon greater insurance coverage against acts of terrorism than is available to us in the marketplace or on commercially reasonable terms.. We rely on debt financing, including borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facility, term loan facility, issuances of debt securities and debt secured by individual properties, to finance our acquisition and development activities and for working capital. If we are unable to obtain financing from these or other sources, or to refinance existing indebtedness upon maturity, our financial condition and results of operations would likely be adversely affected.. 16. Our real estate investments are concentrated in entertainment, recreation and education properties and a significant portion of those investments are in megaplex theatre properties, making us more vulnerable economically than if our investments were more diversified.. We acquire, develop or finance entertainment, recreation and education properties. A significant portion of our investments are in megaplex theatre properties. Although we are subject to the general risks inherent in concentrating investments in real estate, the risks resulting from a lack of diversification become even greater as a result of investing primarily in entertainment, recreation and education properties. These risks are further heightened by the fact that a significant portion of our investments are in megaplex theatre properties. Although a downturn in the real estate industry could significantly adversely affect the value of our properties, a downturn in the entertainment, recreation and education industries could compound this adverse effect. These adverse effects could be more pronounced than if we diversified our investments to a greater degree outside of entertainment, recreation and education properties or, more particularly, outside of megaplex theatre properties.. If we fail to qualify as a REIT, we would be taxed as a corporation, which would substantially reduce funds available for payment of dividends to our shareholders.. If we fail to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we will be taxed as a corporation. We are organized and believe we qualify as a REIT, and intend to operate in a manner that will allow us to continue to qualify as a REIT. However, we cannot provide any assurance that we have always qualified and will remain qualified in the future. This is because qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Internal Revenue Code\"), on which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations, and depends on facts and circumstances not entirely within our control. In addition, future legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may significantly change the tax laws, the application of the tax laws to our qualification as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of that qualification.. If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year (including any prior taxable year for which the statute of limitations remains open), we would face tax consequences that could substantially reduce the funds available for the service of our debt and payment of dividends:. • we would not be allowed a deduction for dividends paid to shareholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates;. • we could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes;. • unless we are entitled to relief under statutory provisions, we could not elect to be treated as a REIT for four taxable years following the year in which we were disqualified; and. • we could be subject to tax penalties and interest.. In addition, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, we will no longer be required to pay dividends. As a result of these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT could adversely affect the market price for our shares.. We will depend on distributions from our direct and indirect subsidiaries to service our debt and pay dividends to our shareholders. The creditors of these subsidiaries, and our direct creditors, are entitled to amounts payable to them before we pay any dividends to our shareholders.. Substantially all of our assets are held through our subsidiaries. We depend on these subsidiaries for substantially all of our cash flow. The creditors of each of our direct and indirect subsidiaries are entitled to payment of that subsidiary's obligations to them, when due and payable, before distributions may be made by that subsidiary to us. In addition, our creditors, whether secured or unsecured, are entitled to amounts payable to them before we may pay any dividends to our shareholders. Thus, our ability to service our debt obligations and pay dividends to holders of our common and preferred shares depends on our subsidiaries' ability first to satisfy their obligations to their creditors and then to pay distributions to us and our ability to satisfy our obligations to our direct creditors. Our subsidiaries are separate and. 17. distinct legal entities and have no obligations, other than limited guaranties of certain of our debt, to make funds available to us.. Our development financing arrangements expose us to funding and completion risks.. Our ability to meet our construction financing obligations which we have undertaken or may enter into in the future depends on our ability to obtain equity or debt financing in the required amounts. There is no assurance we can obtain this financing or that the financing rates available will ensure a spread between our cost of capital and the rent or interest payable to us under the related leases or mortgage notes receivable. As a result, we could fail to meet our construction financing obligations or decide to cease such funding which, in turn, could result in failed projects and penalties, each of which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and business.. We have a limited number of employees and loss of personnel could harm our operations and adversely affect the value of our shares.. We had 63 full-time employees as of December 31, 2017 and, therefore, the impact we may feel from the loss of an employee may be greater than the impact such a loss would have on a larger organization. We are dependent on the efforts of the following individuals: Gregory K. Silvers, our President and Chief Executive Officer; Mark A. Peterson, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Morgan G. Earnest, our Senior Vice President and Chief Investment Officer; Craig L. Evans, our Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary; Michael L. Hirons, our Senior Vice President - Strategy & Asset Management; and Tonya L. Mater, our Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer.  While we believe that we could find replacements for our personnel, the loss of their services could harm our operations and adversely affect the value of our shares.. Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer.  Our service providers and our tenants and their business partners are exposed to similar risks.. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including our proprietary business information and that of our tenants and clients and personally identifiable information of our employees, in our facility and on our network. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our network and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, disrupt our operations, damage our reputation, and cause a loss of confidence, which could adversely affect our business.  Our service providers and our tenants and their business partners are exposed to similar risks and the occurrence of a security breach or other disruption with respect to their information technology and infrastructure could, in turn, have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and business.. Changes in accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\") or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our financial statements.. Our financial statements are subject to the application of U.S. GAAP, which is periodically revised and/or expanded.  From time to time, we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the FASB and the SEC.  It is possible that future accounting standards we are required to adopt, such as the amended guidance for revenue recognition and leases, may require changes to the current accounting treatment that we apply to our consolidated financial statements and may require us to make significant changes to our systems.  Such changes could result in a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Risks That Apply to Our Real Estate Business. Real estate income and the value of real estate investments fluctuate due to various factors.. The value of real estate fluctuates depending on conditions in the general economy and the real estate business. These conditions may also limit our revenues and available cash.  The rents and interest we receive and the occupancy levels at our properties may decline as a result of adverse changes in any of the factors that affect the value of our real estate. If our revenues decline, we generally would expect to have less cash available to pay our indebtedness and distribute to our shareholders. In addition, some of our unreimbursed costs of owning real estate may not decline when the related rents decline.. 18. The factors that affect the value of our real estate include, among other things:. • international, national, regional and local economic conditions;. • consequences of any armed conflict involving, or terrorist attack against, the United States or Canada;. • the threat of domestic terrorism or pandemic outbreaks, which could cause customers of our tenants to avoid public places where large crowds are in attendance, such as megaplex theatres or recreational properties operated by our tenants;. • our ability to secure adequate insurance;. • natural disasters, such as earthquakes, hurricanes and floods, which could exceed the aggregate limits of insurance coverage;. • local conditions such as an oversupply of space or a reduction in demand for real estate in the area;. • competition from other available space;. • whether tenants and users such as customers of our tenants consider a property attractive;. • the financial condition of our tenants, including the extent of tenant bankruptcies or defaults;. • whether we are able to pass some or all of any increased operating costs through to tenants;. • how well we manage our properties;. • fluctuations in interest rates;. • changes in real estate taxes and other expenses;. • changes in market rental rates;. • the timing and costs associated with property improvements and rentals;. • changes in taxation or zoning laws;. • government regulation;. • availability of financing on acceptable terms or at all;. • potential liability under environmental or other laws or regulations; and. • general competitive factors.. The rents and interest we receive and the occupancy levels at our properties may decline as a result of adverse changes in any of these factors. If our revenues decline, we generally would expect to have less cash available to pay our indebtedness and distribute to our shareholders. In addition, some of our unreimbursed costs of owning real estate may not decline when the related rents decline.. There are risks associated with owning and leasing real estate.. Although our lease terms obligate the tenants to bear substantially all of the costs of operating the properties, investing in real estate involves a number of risks, including:. 19. • the risk that tenants will not perform under their leases, reducing our income from the leases or requiring us to assume the cost of performing obligations (such as taxes, insurance and maintenance) that are the tenant's responsibility under the lease;. • we may not always be able to lease properties at favorable rates or certain tenants may require significant capital expenditures by us to conform existing properties to their requirements;. • we may not always be able to sell a property when we desire to do so at a favorable price; and. • changes in tax, zoning or other laws could make properties less attractive or less profitable.. If a tenant fails to perform on its lease covenants, that would not excuse us from meeting any debt obligation secured by the property and could require us to fund reserves in favor of our lenders, thereby reducing funds available for payment of dividends. We cannot be assured that tenants will elect to renew their leases when the terms expire. If a tenant does not renew its lease or if a tenant defaults on its lease obligations, there is no assurance we could obtain a substitute tenant on acceptable terms. If we cannot obtain another quality tenant, we may be required to modify the property for a different use, which may involve a significant capital expenditure and a delay in re-leasing the property.. Some potential losses are not covered by insurance.. Our leases require the tenants to carry comprehensive liability, casualty, workers' compensation, extended coverage and rental loss insurance on our properties. We believe the required coverage is of the type, and amount, customarily obtained by an owner of similar properties. We believe all of our properties are adequately insured. However, there are some types of losses, such as catastrophic acts of nature, acts of war or riots, for which we or our tenants cannot obtain insurance at an acceptable cost. If there is an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insurance limits, we could lose both the revenues generated by the affected property and the capital we have invested in the property. We would, however, remain obligated to repay any mortgage indebtedness or other obligations related to the property. In addition, the cost of insurance protection against terrorist acts has risen dramatically over the years. There can be no assurance our tenants will be able to obtain terrorism insurance coverage, or that any coverage they do obtain will adequately protect our properties against loss from terrorist attack.. Joint ventures may limit flexibility with jointly owned investments.. We may continue to acquire or develop properties in joint ventures with third parties when those transactions appear desirable. We would not own the entire interest in any property acquired by a joint venture. Major decisions regarding a joint venture property may require the consent of our partner. If we have a dispute with a joint venture partner, we may feel it necessary or become obligated to acquire the partner's interest in the venture. However, we cannot ensure that the price we would have to pay or the timing of the acquisition would be favorable to us. If we own less than a 50% interest in any joint venture, or if the venture is jointly controlled, the assets and financial results of the joint venture may not be reportable by us on a consolidated basis. To the extent we have commitments to, or on behalf of, or are dependent on, any such \"off-balance sheet\" arrangements, or if those arrangements or their properties or leases are subject to material contingencies, our liquidity, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected by those commitments or off-balance sheet arrangements.. Our multi-tenant properties expose us to additional risks.. Our entertainment retail centers in Colorado, New York, California, and Ontario, Canada, and similar properties we may seek to acquire or develop in the future, involve risks not typically encountered in the purchase and lease-back of real estate properties which are operated by a single tenant. The ownership or development of multi-tenant retail centers could expose us to the risk that a sufficient number of suitable tenants may not be found to enable the centers to operate profitably and provide a return to us. This risk may be compounded by the failure of existing tenants to satisfy their obligations due to various factors, including the current economic crisis. These risks, in turn, could cause a material adverse impact to our results of operations and business.. 20. Retail centers are also subject to tenant turnover and fluctuations in occupancy rates, which could affect our operating results. Multi-tenant retail centers also expose us to the risk of potential \"CAM slippage,\" which may occur when the actual cost of taxes, insurance and maintenance at the property exceeds the CAM fees paid by tenants.. Failure to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act and other laws could result in substantial costs.. Most of our properties must comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act (\"ADA\"). The ADA requires that public accommodations reasonably accommodate individuals with disabilities and that new construction or alterations be made to commercial facilities to conform to accessibility guidelines. Failure to comply with the ADA can result in injunctions, fines, damage awards to private parties and additional capital expenditures to remedy noncompliance. Our leases require the tenants to comply with the ADA.. Our properties are also subject to various other federal, state and local regulatory requirements. We do not know whether existing requirements will change or whether compliance with future requirements will involve significant unanticipated expenditures. Although these expenditures would be the responsibility of our tenants, if tenants fail to perform these obligations, we may be required to do so.. Potential liability for environmental contamination could result in substantial costs.. Under federal, state and local environmental laws, we may be required to investigate and clean up any release of hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products at our properties, regardless of our knowledge or actual responsibility, simply because of our current or past ownership of the real estate. If unidentified environmental problems arise, we may have to make substantial payments, which could adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to service our debt and pay dividends to our shareholders. This is because:. • as owner, we may have to pay for property damage and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred in connection with the contamination;. • the law may impose clean-up responsibility and liability regardless of whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the contamination;. • even if more than one person is responsible for the contamination, each person who shares legal liability under environmental laws may be held responsible for all of the clean-up costs; and. • governmental entities and third parties may sue the owner or operator of a contaminated site for damages and costs.. These costs could be substantial and in extreme cases could exceed the value of the contaminated property. The presence of hazardous substances or petroleum products or the failure to properly remediate contamination may adversely affect our ability to borrow against, sell or lease an affected property. In addition, some environmental laws create liens on contaminated sites in favor of the government for damages and costs it incurs in connection with a contamination. Most of our loan agreements require the Company or a subsidiary to indemnify the lender against environmental liabilities. Our leases require the tenants to operate the properties in compliance with environmental laws and to indemnify us against environmental liability arising from the operation of the properties. We believe all of our properties are in material compliance with environmental laws. However, we could be subject to strict liability under environmental laws because we own the properties. There is also a risk that tenants may not satisfy their environmental compliance and indemnification obligations under the leases. Any of these events could substantially increase our cost of operations, require us to fund environmental indemnities in favor of our lenders, limit the amount we could borrow under our unsecured revolving credit facility and term loan facility and reduce our ability to service our debt and pay dividends to shareholders.. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid.. We have previously disclosed our intent to undertake certain asset dispositions. In addition, we may desire to sell other properties in the future because of changes in market conditions, poor tenant performance or default of any mortgage we hold, or to avail ourselves of other opportunities. We may also be required to sell a property in the future to meet debt obligations or avoid a default. Specialty real estate projects such as we have cannot always be sold quickly, and. 21. we cannot assure you that we could always obtain a favorable price. In addition, the Internal Revenue Code limits our ability to sell our properties. We may be required to invest in the restoration or modification of a property before we can sell it. The inability to respond promptly to changes in the performance of our property portfolio could adversely affect our financial condition and ability to service our debt and pay dividends to our shareholders.. There are risks in owning assets outside the United States.. Our properties in Canada are subject to the risks normally associated with international operations. The rentals under our Canadian leases are payable in Canadian dollars, which could expose us to losses resulting from fluctuations in exchange rates to the extent we have not hedged our position. Canadian real estate and tax laws are complex and subject to change, and we cannot assure you we will always be in compliance with those laws or that compliance will not expose us to additional expense. We may also be subject to fluctuations in Canadian real estate values or markets or the Canadian economy as a whole, which may adversely affect our Canadian investments.. Additionally, we have made investments in projects located in China and may enter other international markets, which may have similar risks as described above as well as unique risks associated with a specific country.. There are risks in owning or financing properties for which the tenant's, mortgagor's or our operations may be impacted by weather conditions and climate change.. We have acquired and financed ski properties and expect to do so in the future. The operators of these properties, our tenants or mortgagors, are dependent upon the operations of the properties to pay their rents and service their loans. The ski property operator's ability to attract visitors is influenced by weather conditions and climate change in general, each of which may impact the amount of snowfall during the ski season. Adverse weather conditions may discourage visitors from participating in outdoor activities. In addition, unseasonably warm weather may result in inadequate natural snowfall, which increases the cost of snowmaking, and could render snowmaking wholly or partially ineffective in maintaining quality skiing conditions and attracting visitors. Excessive natural snowfall may materially increase the costs incurred for grooming trails and may also make it difficult for visitors to obtain access to the ski property.  We also own and finance attractions (including waterparks) which would also be subject to risks relating to weather conditions such as in the case of waterparks and amusement parks, excessive rainfall or unseasonable temperatures.  Prolonged periods of adverse weather conditions, or the occurrence of such conditions during peak visitation periods, could have a material adverse effect on the operator's financial results and could impair the ability of the operator to make rental payments or service our loans.. We face risks associated with the development, redevelopment and expansion of properties and the acquisition of other real estate related companies.. We may develop, redevelop or expand new or existing properties or acquire other real estate related companies, and these activities are subject to various risks.  We may not be successful in pursuing such development or acquisition opportunities. In addition, newly developed or redeveloped/expanded properties or newly acquired companies may not perform as well as expected. We are subject to other risks in connection with any such development or acquisition activities, including the following:. • we may not succeed in completing developments or consummating desired acquisitions on time;. • we may face competition in pursuing development or acquisition opportunities, which could increase our costs;. • we may encounter difficulties and incur substantial expenses in integrating acquired properties into our operations and systems and, in any event, the integration may require a substantial amount of time on the part of both our management and employees and therefore divert their attention from other aspects of our business;. • we may undertake developments or acquisitions in new markets or industries where we do not have the same level of market knowledge, which may expose us to unanticipated risks in those markets and industries to which we are unable to effectively respond, such as an inability to attract qualified personnel with knowledge of such markets and industries;. 22. • we may incur construction costs in connection with developments, which may be higher than projected, potentially making the project unfeasible or unprofitable;. • we may incur unanticipated capital expenditures in order to maintain or improve acquired properties;. • we may be unable to obtain zoning, occupancy or other governmental approvals;. • we may experience delays in receiving rental payments for developments that are not completed on time;. • our developments or acquisitions may not be profitable;. • we may need the consent of third parties such as anchor tenants, mortgage lenders and joint venture partners, and those consents may be withheld;. • we may incur adverse tax consequences if we fail to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes following an acquisition;. • we may be subject to risks associated with providing mortgage financing to third parties in connection with transactions, including any default under such mortgage financing;. • we may face litigation or other claims in connection with, or as a result of, acquisitions, including claims from terminated employees, tenants, former stockholders or other third parties;. • the market price of our common shares, preferred shares and debt securities may decline, particularly if we do not achieve the perceived benefits of any acquisition as rapidly or to the extent anticipated by securities or industry analysts or if the effect of an acquisition on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows is not consistent with the expectations of these analysts;. • we may issue shares in connection with acquisitions resulting in dilution to our existing shareholders; and. • we may assume debt or other liabilities in connection with acquisitions.. In addition, there is no assurance that planned third-party financing related to development and acquisition opportunities will be provided on a timely basis or at all, thus increasing the risk that such opportunities are delayed or fail to be completed as originally contemplated. We may also abandon development or acquisition opportunities that we have begun pursuing and consequently fail to recover expenses already incurred and have devoted management time to a matter not consummated.  In some cases, we may agree to lease or other financing terms for a development project in advance of completing and funding the project, in which case we are exposed to the risk of an increase in our cost of capital during the interim period leading up to the funding, which can reduce, eliminate or result in a negative spread between our cost of capital and the payments we expect to receive from the project. Furthermore, our acquisitions of new properties or companies will expose us to the liabilities of those properties or companies, some of which we may not be aware at the time of acquisition. In addition, development of our existing properties presents similar risks.  If a development or acquisition is unsuccessful, either because it is not meeting our expectations or was not completed according to our plans, we could lose our investment in the development or acquisition.. 23. Risks That May Affect the Market Price of Our Shares. We cannot assure you we will continue paying cash dividends at current rates.. Our dividend policy is determined by our Board of Trustees. Our ability to continue paying dividends on our common shares, to pay dividends on our preferred shares at their stated rates or to increase our common share dividend rate will depend on a number of factors, including our liquidity, our financial condition and results of future operations, the performance of lease and mortgage terms by our tenants and customers, our ability to acquire, finance and lease additional properties at attractive rates, and provisions in our loan covenants. If we do not maintain or increase our common share dividend rate, that could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common shares and possibly our preferred shares. Furthermore, if the Board of Trustees decides to pay dividends on our common shares partially or substantially all in common shares, that could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common shares and possibly our preferred shares.. Market interest rates may have an effect on the value of our shares.. One of the factors that investors may consider in deciding whether to buy or sell our common shares or preferred shares is our dividend rate as a percentage of our share price, relative to market interest rates. If market interest rates increase, prospective investors may desire a higher dividend rate on our common shares or seek securities paying higher dividends or interest.. Market prices for our shares may be affected by perceptions about the financial health or share value of our tenants and mortgagors or the performance of REIT stocks generally.. To the extent any of our tenants or customers, or their competition, report losses or slower earnings growth, take charges against earnings or enter bankruptcy proceedings, the market price for our shares could be adversely affected. The market price for our shares could also be affected by any weakness in the performance of REIT stocks generally or weakness in any of the sectors in which our tenants and customers operate.. Limits on changes in control may discourage takeover attempts which may be beneficial to our shareholders.. There are a number of provisions in our Declaration of Trust and Bylaws and under Maryland law and agreements we have with others, any of which could make it more difficult for a party to make a tender offer for our shares or complete a takeover of the Company which is not approved by our Board of Trustees. These include:. • a staggered Board of Trustees that can be increased in number without shareholder approval;. • a limit on beneficial ownership of our shares, which acts as a defense against a hostile takeover or acquisition of a significant or controlling interest, in addition to preserving our REIT status;. • the ability of the Board of Trustees to issue preferred or common shares, to reclassify preferred or common shares, and to increase the amount of our authorized preferred or common shares, without shareholder approval;. • limits on the ability of shareholders to remove trustees without cause;. • requirements for advance notice of shareholder proposals at shareholder meetings;. • provisions of Maryland law restricting business combinations and control share acquisitions not approved by the Board of Trustees and unsolicited takeovers;. • provisions of Maryland law protecting corporations (and by extension REITs) against unsolicited takeovers by limiting the duties of the trustees in unsolicited takeover situations;. • provisions in Maryland law providing that the trustees are not subject to any higher duty or greater scrutiny than that applied to any other director under Maryland law in transactions relating to the acquisition or potential acquisition of control;. 24. • provisions of Maryland law creating a statutory presumption that an act of the trustees satisfies the applicable standards of conduct for trustees under Maryland law;. • provisions in loan or joint venture agreements putting the Company in default upon a change in control; and. • provisions of employment agreements and other compensation arrangements with our employees calling for severance compensation and vesting of equity compensation upon termination of employment upon a change in control or certain events of the officers' termination of service.. Any or all of these provisions could delay or prevent a change in control of the Company, even if the change was in our shareholders' interest or offered a greater return to our shareholders.. We may change our policies without obtaining the approval of our shareholders.. Our operating and financial policies, including our policies with respect to acquiring or financing real estate or other companies, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and dividends, are exclusively determined by our Board of Trustees. Accordingly, our shareholders do not control these policies.. Dilution could affect the value of our shares.. Our future growth will depend in part on our ability to raise additional capital. If we raise additional capital through the issuance of equity securities, the interests of holders of our common shares could be diluted. Likewise, our Board of Trustees is authorized to cause us to issue preferred shares in one or more series, the holders of which would be entitled to dividends and voting and other rights as our Board of Trustees determines, and which could be senior to or convertible into our common shares. Accordingly, an issuance by us of preferred shares could be dilutive to or otherwise adversely affect the interests of holders of our common shares. As of December 31, 2017, our Series C preferred shares are convertible, at each of the holder's option, into our common shares at a conversion rate of 0.3857 common shares per $25.00 liquidation preference, which is equivalent to a conversion price of approximately $64.82 per common share (subject to adjustment in certain events). Additionally, as of December 31, 2017, our Series E preferred shares are convertible, at each of the holder's option, into our common shares at a conversion rate of 0.4616 common shares per $25.00 liquidation preference, which is equivalent to a conversion price of approximately $54.16 per common share (subject to adjustment in certain events).  Under certain circumstances in connection with a change in control of our Company, holders of our Series G preferred shares may elect to convert some or all of their Series G preferred shares into a number of our common shares per Series G preferred share equal to the lesser of (a) the $25.00 per share liquidation preference, plus accrued and unpaid dividends divided by the market value of our common shares or (b) 0.7389 shares. Depending upon the number of Series C, Series E and Series G preferred shares being converted at one time, a conversion of Series C, Series E and Series G preferred shares could be dilutive to or otherwise adversely affect the interests of holders of our common shares.  In addition, we may issue a significant amount of equity securities in connection with acquisitions or investments, with or without seeking shareholder approval, which could result in significant dilution to our existing shareholders.. Future offerings of debt or equity securities, which may rank senior to our common shares, may adversely affect the market price of our common shares.. If we decide to issue debt securities in the future, which would rank senior to our common shares, it is likely that they will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility. Additionally, any equity securities or convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our common shares and may result in dilution to owners of our common shares. We and, indirectly, our shareholders, will bear the cost of issuing and servicing such securities. Because our decision to issue debt or equity securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, holders of our common shares will bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common shares and diluting the value of their shareholdings in us.. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates may have an impact on the value of our shares.. The functional currency for our Canadian operations is the Canadian dollar. As a result, our future operating results could be affected by fluctuations in the exchange rate between U.S. and Canadian dollars, which in turn could affect. 25. our share price. We have attempted to mitigate our exposure to Canadian currency exchange risk by entering into foreign currency exchange contracts to hedge in part our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. Foreign currency derivatives are subject to future risk of loss. We do not engage in purchasing foreign exchange contracts for speculative purposes.. Additionally, we have made investments in China and may enter other international markets which pose similar currency fluctuation risks as described above.. We may be subject to adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes that could reduce the market price of our shares.. At any time, the U.S. federal income tax laws or regulations governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws or regulations may be changed, possibly with retroactive effect. In addition, there have been a number of proposals in Congress with respect to tax laws, including proposals to adopt a flat tax or replace the income tax system with a national sales tax or value-added tax.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was signed into law. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act made many significant changes to the U.S. federal income tax laws applicable to businesses and their owners, including REITs and their shareholders.  Pursuant to this legislation, as of January 1, 2018, (1) the federal income tax rate applicable to corporations is reduced to 21%, (2) the highest marginal individual income tax rate is reduced to 37%, and (3) the corporate alternative minimum tax is repealed. In addition, individuals, estates and trusts may deduct up to 20% of certain pass-through income, including ordinary REIT dividends that are not \"capital gain dividends\" or \"qualified dividend income,\" subject to complex limitations. For taxpayers qualifying for the full deduction, the effective maximum tax rate on ordinary REIT dividends would be 29.6% (through taxable years ending in 2025). The maximum rate of withholding with respect to our distributions to non-U.S. shareholders that are treated as attributable to gains from the sale or exchange of U.S. real property interests is also reduced from 35% to 21%. The deduction of net interest expense is limited for all businesses, other than certain electing businesses, including real estate businesses, which limitation could adversely affect our taxable REIT subsidiaries.. While the changes in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act generally appear to be favorable with respect to REITs, the extensive changes to non-REIT provisions in the Internal Revenue Code may have unanticipated effects on us or our shareholders. Moreover, Congressional leaders have recognized that the process of adopting extensive tax legislation in a short amount of time without hearings and substantial time for review is likely to have led to drafting errors, issues needing clarification and unintended consequences that will have to be reviewed in subsequent tax legislation. At this point, it is not clear when Congress will address these issues or when the Internal Revenue Service will be able to issue administrative guidance on the changes made in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.. We cannot predict if or when any new U.S. federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, or any amendment to any existing U.S. federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, will be adopted, promulgated or become effective or whether any such law, regulation or interpretation may take effect retroactively. We and our shareholders could be adversely affected by any such change in, or any new, U.S. federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation.  Furthermore, any proposals seeking broader reform of U.S. federal income tax laws, if enacted, could change the federal income tax laws applicable to REITs, subject us to federal tax or reduce or eliminate the current deduction for dividends paid to our shareholders, any of which could negatively affect the market for our shares."
