[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered in evaluating our business and future prospects.  Please note that additional risks not presently known to us or that are currently considered immaterial may also have a negative impact on our business and operations.  If any of the events or circumstances described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our common stock could decline.. Natural gas, NGLs and oil price volatility, or a prolonged period of low natural gas, NGLs and oil prices, may have an adverse effect upon our revenue, profitability, future rate of growth, liquidity and financial position.. Our revenue, profitability, future rate of growth, liquidity and financial position depend upon the prices for natural gas, NGLs and oil.  The prices for natural gas, NGLs and oil have historically been volatile, and we expect this volatility to continue in the future.  The prices are affected by a number of factors beyond our control, which include: weather conditions and seasonal trends; the supply of and demand for natural gas, NGLs and oil; regional basis differentials; national and worldwide economic and political conditions; new and competing exploratory finds of natural gas, NGLs and oil; the ability to export liquefied natural gas; the effect of energy conservation efforts; the price and availability of alternative fuels; the availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines, other transportation facilities, and gathering, processing and storage facilities; and government regulations, such as regulation of natural gas transportation and price controls.. The daily spot prices for NYMEX Henry Hub natural gas ranged from a high of $3.77 per MMBtu to a low of $1.49 per MMBtu from January 1, 2016 through December 31, 2017, and the daily spot prices for NYMEX West Texas Intermediate crude oil ranged from a high of $60.46 per barrel to a low of $26.19 per barrel during the same period. In addition, the market price for natural gas in the Appalachian Basin continues to be lower relative to NYMEX Henry Hub as a result of the significant increases in the supply of natural gas in the Northeast region in recent years.  Due to the volatility of commodity prices, we are unable to predict future potential movements in the market prices for natural gas, including Appalachian and other market point basis, NGLs and oil and thus cannot predict the ultimate impact of prices on our operations.. Lower prices for natural gas, NGLs and oil result in lower revenues, operating income and cash flows. Prolonged low, and/or significant or extended further declines in, natural gas, NGLs and oil prices may result in further decreases in our revenues, operating income and cash flows, which may result in reductions in drilling activity, delays in the construction of new midstream infrastructure and downgrades, or other negative rating actions with respect to our credit ratings.  Further declines in prices could also adversely affect the amount of natural gas, NGLs and oil that we can produce economically, which may result in us having to make significant downward adjustments to the value of our assets and could cause us to incur non-cash impairment charges to earnings in future periods.  See \"Impairment of Oil and Gas Properties and Goodwill\" under Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" and \"Natural gas, NGLs and oil price declines have resulted in impairment of certain of our non-core assets.  Future declines in commodity prices, increases in operating costs or adverse changes in well performance may result in additional write-downs of the carrying amounts of our assets, including goodwill and other long lived intangible assets, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations in future periods.\" under Item 1A, \"Risk Factors.\" Moreover, a failure to control our development costs during periods of lower natural gas, NGLs and oil prices could have significant adverse effects on our earnings, cash flows and financial position.  We are also exposed to the risk of non-performance by our hedge counterparties in the event that changes, positive or negative, in natural gas prices result in derivative contracts with a positive fair value. Further, adverse economic and market conditions could negatively affect the collectability of our trade receivables and cause our hedge counterparties to be unable to perform their obligations or to seek bankruptcy protection.. Increases in natural gas, NGLs and oil prices may be accompanied by or result in increased well drilling costs, increased production taxes, increased lease operating expenses, increased volatility in seasonal gas price spreads for our storage assets and increased end-user conservation or conversion to alternative fuels.  Significant natural gas price increases may subject us to margin calls on our commodity price derivative contracts (hedging arrangements, including swap, collar and option agreements and exchange-traded instruments) which would potentially require us to post significant amounts of cash collateral with our hedge counterparties. The cash collateral provided to our hedge counterparties, which is interest-bearing, is returned to us in whole or in part upon a reduction in forward market prices, depending on the amount of such reduction, or in whole upon settlement of the related derivative contract.  In addition, to the extent we have hedged our current production at prices below the current market price, we are unable to benefit fully from an increase in the price of natural gas.. 18. Table of Contents. We may not achieve the intended benefits of the acquisition of Rice and the acquisition may disrupt our current plans or operations.. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully integrate Rice's assets or otherwise realize the expected benefits of the acquisition of Rice. In addition, our business may be negatively impacted if we are unable to effectively manage our expanded operations going forward. The integration has required and will continue to require significant time and focus from management and could disrupt current plans and operations, which could delay the achievement of our strategic objectives.. We are subject to risks associated with the operation of our wells, pipelines and facilities.. Our business is subject to all of the inherent hazards and risks normally incidental to the operations for drilling, completions, producing, transporting and storing natural gas, NGLs and oil, such as well site blowouts, cratering and explosions, pipe and other equipment and system failures, landslides, fires, formations with abnormal or unexpected pressures, freeze offs of wells and pipelines due to cold weather, inadvertent third party damage to the Company's assets, pollution and environmental risks and natural disasters.  We also face various threats to the security of our or third parties' facilities and infrastructure, such as processing plants, compressor stations and pipelines.  These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury and/or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment, pollution or other environmental damage, disruptions to our operations, regulatory investigations and penalties and loss of sensitive confidential information.  Moreover, in the event that one or more of these hazards occur, there can be no assurance that a response will be adequate to limit or reduce damage.  As a result of these risks, we are also sometimes a defendant in legal proceedings and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business.  There can be no assurance that the insurance policies we maintain to limit our liability for such losses will be adequate to protect us from all material expenses related to potential future claims for personal injury and property damage or that such levels of insurance will be available in the future at economical prices or to cover all risks.. Our failure to develop, obtain, access or maintain the necessary infrastructure to successfully deliver natural gas, NGLs and oil to market may adversely affect our earnings, cash flows and results of operations.. Our delivery of natural gas, NGLs and oil depends upon the availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines, other transportation facilities and gathering and processing facilities. The capacity of transmission, gathering and processing facilities may be insufficient to accommodate potential production from existing and new wells, which may result in substantial discounts in the prices we receive for our natural gas, NGLs and oil. Competition for access to pipeline infrastructure within the Appalachian Basin is intense, and our ability to secure access to pipeline infrastructure on economic terms could affect our competitive position. The Company's investment in midstream infrastructure through EQM and RMP is intended to address a lack of capacity on, and access to, existing gathering and transmission pipelines as well as curtailments on such pipelines. Our infrastructure development and maintenance programs can involve significant risks, including those related to timing, cost overruns, operational efficiency, and construction, and these risks can be affected by the availability of capital, materials and a qualified work force, as well as the complexity of construction locations, weather conditions, delays in obtaining permits and other government approvals, title and property access problems, geology, public opposition to infrastructure development, compliance by third parties with their contractual obligations to us and other factors.  Moreover, if our infrastructure development and maintenance programs are not successfully developed on time and within budget, we may not be able to profitably fulfill our contractual obligations to third parties, including joint venture partners.. We also deliver to and are served by third-party natural gas, NGLs and oil transmission, gathering, processing and storage facilities that are limited in number, geographically concentrated and subject to the same risks identified above with respect to our infrastructure development and maintenance programs.  Because we do not own these third-party pipelines or facilities, their continuing operation is not within our control. An extended interruption of access to or service from our or third-party pipelines and facilities for any reason, including vandalism, sabotage or cyber-attacks on such pipelines and facilities or service interruptions due to gas quality, could result in adverse consequences to us, such as delays in producing and selling our natural gas, NGLs and oil.  In such an event, we might have to shut in our wells awaiting a pipeline connection or capacity and/or sell our production at prices lower than we currently project.  In addition, some of our third-party contracts involve significant long-term financial commitments on our part.  Moreover, our usage of third parties for transmission, gathering and processing services subjects us to the performance risk of such third parties and may make us dependent upon those third parties to get our produced natural gas, NGLs and oil to market.. 19. Table of Contents. The substantial majority of our producing properties are concentrated in the Appalachian Basin, making us vulnerable to risks associated with operating primarily in one major geographic area.. The substantial majority of our producing properties are geographically concentrated in the Appalachian Basin. As a result of this concentration, we may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of regional supply and demand factors, delays or interruptions of production from wells in these areas caused by and costs associated with governmental regulation, processing or transportation capacity constraints, market limitations, water shortages or other weather related conditions, interruption of the processing or transportation of oil, natural gas or NGLs and changes in regional and local political regimes and regulations. Such conditions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, a number of areas within the Appalachian Basin have historically been subject to mining operations. For example, third parties may engage in subsurface mining operations near or under our properties, which could cause subsidence or other damage to our properties, adversely impact our drilling operations or adversely impact our midstream activities or those on which we rely.. Due to the concentrated nature of our portfolio of natural gas properties, a number of our properties could experience any of the same conditions at the same time, resulting in a relatively greater impact on our results of operations than they might have on other companies that have a more diversified portfolio of properties.. Strategic determinations, including the allocation of capital and other resources to strategic opportunities, are challenging and our failure to appropriately allocate capital and resources among our strategic opportunities may adversely affect our financial condition and reduce our future growth rate.. Our future growth prospects are dependent upon our ability to identify optimal strategies for our business. In developing our 2018 business plan, we considered allocating capital and other resources to various aspects of our businesses, including well development, reserve acquisitions, exploratory activities, midstream infrastructure, corporate items and other alternatives.  We also considered our likely sources of capital.  Notwithstanding the determinations made in the development of our 2018 plan, business opportunities not previously identified periodically come to our attention, including possible acquisitions and dispositions. If we fail to identify and execute optimal business strategies, including the appropriate corporate structure and appropriate rate of reserve development, or fail to optimize our capital investment and capital raising opportunities and the use of our other resources in furtherance of our business strategies, our financial condition and growth rate may be adversely affected.  Moreover, economic or other circumstances may change from those contemplated by our 2018 plan, and our failure to recognize or respond to those changes may limit our ability to achieve our objectives.. We periodically engage in acquisitions, dispositions and other strategic transactions, including joint ventures.  These transactions involve various inherent risks, such as our ability to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals; the timing of and conditions imposed upon us by regulators in connection with such approvals; the assumption of potential environmental or other liabilities; and our ability to realize the benefits expected from the transactions.  In addition, various factors including prevailing market conditions could negatively impact the benefits we receive from transactions.  Competition for acquisition opportunities in our industry is intense and may increase the cost of, or cause us to refrain from, completing acquisitions. Joint venture arrangements may restrict our operational and corporate flexibility. Moreover, joint venture arrangements involve various risks and uncertainties, such as committing us to fund operating and/or capital expenditures, the timing and amount of which we may have little control over, and our joint venture partners may not satisfy their obligations to the joint venture. Our inability to complete a transaction or to achieve our strategic or financial goals in any transaction could have significant adverse effects on our earnings, cash flows and financial position.. In addition, we announced in late 2017 that our board of directors has formed a committee to evaluate options to address our sum-of-the-parts discount, with the results of such review to be announced by the end of March 2018.  There can be no assurance regarding the outcome of this review or how such outcome may affect us.. Our need to comply with comprehensive, complex and sometimes unpredictable government regulations may increase our costs and limit our revenue growth, which may result in reduced earnings.. Our operations are regulated extensively at the federal, state and local levels.  Laws, regulations and other legal requirements have increased the cost to plan, design, drill, install, operate and abandon wells, gathering and transmission systems and pipelines.  Our exploration and production operations are subject to various types of federal, state and local laws and regulations, including regulations related to the location of wells; the method of drilling, well construction, well stimulation, hydraulic fracturing and casing design; water withdrawal and procurement for well stimulation purposes; well production; spill prevention plans; the use, transportation, storage and disposal of water and other fluids and materials, including solid wastes, incidental to oil and gas. 20. Table of Contents. operations; surface usage and the reclamation of properties upon which wells or other facilities have been located; the plugging and abandoning of wells; the calculation, reporting and disbursement of royalties and taxes; and the gathering of production in certain circumstances. These regulations and any delays in obtaining related authorizations may affect the costs and timing of developing our natural gas resources.. Our operations are also subject to conservation and correlative rights regulations, including the regulation of the size of drilling and spacing units or field rule units; setbacks; the number of wells that may be drilled in a unit or in close proximity to other wells; drilling in the vicinity of coal mining operations and certain other structures; and the unitization or pooling of natural gas properties. Some states allow the statutory pooling and unitization of tracts to facilitate development and exploration, as well as joint development of existing contiguous leases. In addition, state conservation and oil and gas laws generally limit the venting or flaring of natural gas, and may set production allowances on the amount of annual production permitted from a well.. Environmental, health and safety legal requirements govern discharges of substances into the air, ground and water; the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes; the clean-up of contaminated sites; groundwater quality and availability; plant and wildlife protection; locations available for drilling and pipeline construction; environmental impact studies and assessments prior to permitting; restoration of drilling properties after drilling is completed; pipeline safety (including replacement requirements); and work practices related to employee health and safety.  Compliance with the laws, regulations and other legal requirements applicable to our businesses may increase our cost of doing business or result in delays due to the need to obtain additional or more detailed governmental approvals and permits.  These requirements could also subject us to claims for personal injuries, property damage and other damages.  Our failure to comply with the laws, regulations and other legal requirements applicable to our businesses, even if as a result of factors beyond our control, could result in the suspension or termination of our operations and subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties and damages.. The rates charged to customers by our gathering, transmission and storage businesses are, in many cases, subject to federal regulation by the FERC, which may prohibit us from realizing a level of return that we believe is appropriate. These restrictions may take the form of lower overall rates, imputed revenue credits, cost disallowances and/or expense deferrals. For example, under current policy, the FERC permits interstate pipelines to include an income tax allowance in the cost-of-service used as the basis for calculating their regulated rates. For pipelines owned by partnerships, including EQM, the tax allowance reflects the actual or potential income tax liability on the FERC-jurisdictional income attributable to all partnership interests if the ultimate owner of the interest has an actual or potential income tax liability on such income.  If the FERC's income tax allowance policy, which is subject to legal challenges, were to change and if the FERC were to disallow all or a substantial portion of the current income tax allowance for EQM's pipelines, including adjusting the income tax allowance for reduced income tax rates enacted by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, EQM's regulated rates, and therefore its revenues, could be materially adversely affected, which eventually could have a material adverse effect on our earnings and cash flows.. Certain natural gas gathering facilities are exempted from regulation by the FERC. We believe that many of our natural gas facilities meet the traditional tests the FERC has used to establish a pipeline's status as an exempt gatherer not subject to regulation as a natural gas company, although the FERC has not made a formal determination with respect to the jurisdictional status of those facilities. However, the distinction between FERC-regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services is the subject of ongoing litigation within the industry, so the classification and regulation of some of our facilities may be subject to change based on future determinations by the FERC, the courts or the U.S. Congress.. Failure to comply with applicable provisions of the laws governing the regulation and safety of natural gas gathering, transmission and storage facilities, as well as with the regulations, rules, orders, restrictions and conditions associated with these laws, could result in the imposition of administrative and criminal remedies and civil penalties.  For example, the FERC is authorized to impose civil penalties of up to approximately $1.2 million per violation, per day for violations of the Natural Gas Act of 1938, the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 or the rules, regulations, restrictions, conditions and orders promulgated under those statutes.  The violation of federal pipeline safety laws could lead to the imposition of civil penalties of up to approximately $200,000 per day for each violation up to a maximum penalty of approximately $2 million for a related series of violations.  This maximum penalty authority established by statute will continue to be adjusted periodically for inflation.. Laws, regulations and other legal requirements are constantly changing, and implementation of compliant processes in response to such changes could be costly and time consuming.  In addition to periodic changes to air, water and waste laws, as well as recent EPA initiatives to impose climate change-based air regulations on the industry, the U.S. Congress and various states have been evaluating and, in certain cases, have enacted climate-related legislation and other regulatory initiatives that would further restrict emissions of greenhouse gases, including methane (a primary component of natural gas) and carbon dioxide (a byproduct of burning natural gas). Such restrictions may result in additional compliance obligations with respect to, or taxes on the release, capture and use of, greenhouse gases that could have an adverse effect on our operations.. 21. Table of Contents. Another area of regulation is hydraulic fracturing, which we utilize to complete most of our natural gas wells. Certain environmental and other groups have suggested that additional laws and regulations may be needed to more closely regulate the hydraulic fracturing process, and legislation or regulation has been proposed or is under discussion at federal, state and local levels. For instance, legislation or regulation banning hydraulic fracturing has been adopted in a number of jurisdictions in which we do not have drilling operations. We cannot predict whether any other such federal, state or local legislation or regulation will be enacted and, if enacted, how it may affect our operations, but enactment of additional laws or regulations could increase our operating costs, result in delays in production or delivery of natural gas or perhaps even preclude us from drilling wells.. Subsequent to the broad tax reform changes provided in the law known as the Tax Cuts and Job Act of 2017, other tax law changes could be enacted that have a material impact on us.  The most significant potential tax law change would be a full or partial elimination of the ability to expense intangible drilling costs, or a linking of that deduction to the deduction for interest expense, either of which could adversely impact both current and deferred federal and state income tax liabilities.  The cash cost of any such change could impact our ability to develop our natural gas resources.. The rates of federal, state and local taxes applicable to the industries in which we operate, including production taxes paid by EQT Production, often fluctuate, and could be increased by the various taxing authorities.  In addition, the tax laws, rules and regulations that affect our business could change, such as the change resulting from the law known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017. Any such increase or change or varying interpretations of these laws, including the imposition of a new severance tax (a tax on the extraction of natural resources) in states in which we produce gas, could adversely impact our earnings, cash flows and financial position.. In 2010, the U.S. Congress adopted the Dodd-Frank Act which established federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivative market and entities, such as us, that participate in that market. The Dodd-Frank Act required the CFTC, the SEC and other regulatory agencies to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the legislation. As of the filing date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the CFTC had adopted and implemented many final rules that impose regulatory obligations on all market participants, including us, such as recordkeeping and certain reporting obligations.  Other rules that may be relevant to us or our counterparties have yet to be finalized.  Because significant rules relevant to natural gas hedging activities have not been adopted or implemented, it is not possible at this time to predict the extent of the impact of the regulations on our hedging program, including available counterparties, or regulatory compliance obligations.  We have experienced increased, and anticipate additional, compliance costs and changes to current market practices as participants continue to adapt to a changing regulatory environment.. We have substantial capital requirements, and we may not be able to obtain needed financing on satisfactory terms.. We, EQM and RMP rely upon access to both short-term bank and money markets and longer-term capital markets as sources of liquidity for any capital requirements not satisfied by the cash flows from operations or other sources.  Future challenges in the global financial system, including access to capital markets and changes in the terms of and cost of capital, including increases in interest rates, may adversely affect our, EQM's or RMP's business and financial condition.  Our, EQM's and RMP's ability to access the capital markets may be restricted at a time when we, EQM or RMP desire, or need, to raise capital, which could have an impact on our, EQM's, or RMP's flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions or our ability to implement our business strategies.. As of February 15, 2018, our Senior Notes were rated \"Baa3\" by Moody's Investors Services (Moody's), \"BBB\" by Standard & Poor's Ratings Service (S&P) with a \"negative\" outlook, and \"BBB-\" by Fitch Ratings Service (Fitch), and EQM's Senior Notes  were rated \"Ba1\" by Moody's, \"BBB-\" by S&P, and \"BBB-\" by Fitch. Although we are not aware of any current plans of Moody's, S&P or Fitch to lower their respective ratings on our or EQM's Senior Notes, we cannot be assured that our or EQM's credit ratings will not be downgraded or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency. Low prices for natural gas, NGLs and oil or an increase in the level of our indebtedness in the future may result in a downgrade in the ratings that are assigned to our or EQM's Senior Notes.  If any credit rating agency downgrades the ratings, particularly below investment grade, our or EQM's access to the capital markets may be limited, borrowing costs and margin deposits on our derivatives would increase, we may be required to provide additional credit assurances in support of pipeline capacity contracts, the amount of which may be substantial, or we or EQM may be required to provide additional credit assurances related to joint venture arrangements or construction contracts, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and liquidity.  Investment grade refers to the quality of a company's credit as assessed by one or more credit rating agencies.  In order to be considered investment grade, a company must be rated \"BBB-\" or higher by S&P, \"Baa3\" or higher by Moody's  and \"BBB-\" or higher by Fitch.. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our ability to execute our strategic, operational and financial plans.. Our operations are dependent upon key management and technical personnel, and one or more of these individuals could leave our employment. The unexpected loss of the services of one or more of these individuals could have a detrimental effect on. 22. Table of Contents. us. In addition, the success of our operations will depend, in part, on our ability to identify, attract, develop and retain experienced personnel. There is competition within our industry for experienced technical personnel and certain other professionals, which could increase the costs associated with identifying, attracting and retaining such personnel. If we cannot identify, attract, develop and retain our technical and professional personnel or attract additional experienced technical and professional personnel, our ability to compete could be harmed.. Negative public perception regarding us and/or our industry could have an adverse effect on our operations.. Negative public perception regarding us and/or our industry resulting from, among other things, oil spills, the explosion of natural gas transmission and gathering lines and concerns raised by advocacy groups about hydraulic fracturing and pipeline projects, may lead to increased regulatory scrutiny which may, in turn, lead to new local, state and federal safety and environmental laws, regulations, guidelines and enforcement interpretations.  These actions may cause operational delays or restrictions, increased operating costs, additional regulatory burdens and increased risk of litigation.  Moreover, governmental authorities exercise considerable discretion in the timing and scope of permit issuance and the public may engage in the permitting process, including through intervention in the courts. Negative public perception could cause the permits we need to conduct our operations to be withheld, delayed or burdened by requirements that restrict our ability to profitably conduct our business.. Cyber incidents may adversely impact our operations.. Our business has become increasingly dependent upon digital technologies, including information systems, infrastructure and cloud applications, to operate our production and midstream businesses, and the maintenance of our financial and other records has long been dependent upon such technologies. The U.S. government has issued public warnings that indicate that energy assets might be specific targets of cyber security threats. Deliberate attacks on, or unintentional events affecting, our systems or infrastructure, the systems or infrastructure of third parties or the cloud could lead to corruption or loss of our proprietary data and potentially sensitive data, delays in production or delivery of natural gas, NGLs and oil, difficulty in completing and settling transactions, challenges in maintaining our books and records, communication interruptions, environmental damage, personal injury, property damage, other operational disruptions and third-party liability.  Further, as cyber incidents continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any vulnerability to cyber incidents.. Our failure to assess or capitalize on production opportunities could negatively impact our long-term growth prospects for our production business.. Our goal of sustaining long-term growth for our production business is contingent upon our ability to identify production opportunities based on market conditions.  Our decision to drill a well is subject to a number of factors which may alter our drilling schedule or our plans to drill at all. We may have difficulty drilling all of the wells before the lease term expires which could result in the loss of certain leasehold rights, or we could drill wells in locations where we do not have the necessary infrastructure to deliver the natural gas, NGLs and oil to market.  Moreover, an incorrect determination of legal title to our wells could result in liability to the owner of the natural gas or oil rights and an impairment to our assets. Successfully identifying production opportunities involves a high degree of business experience, knowledge and careful evaluation of potential opportunities, along with subjective judgments and assumptions that may prove to be incorrect.  For example, seismic data is subject to interpretation and may not accurately identify the presence of natural gas or other hydrocarbons. Certain of our future drilling activities may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, this failure could adversely affect our business, results of operations or liquidity. Because we have a limited operating history in certain areas, our future operating results may be difficult to forecast, and our failure to sustain high growth rates in the future could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. Natural gas, NGLs and oil price declines have resulted in impairment of certain of our non-core assets.  Future declines in commodity prices, increases in operating costs or adverse changes in well performance may result in additional write-downs of the carrying amounts of our assets, including goodwill and other long lived intangible assets, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations in future periods.. We review the carrying values of our proved oil and gas properties, midstream assets and goodwill for indications of impairment when events or circumstances indicate that the remaining carrying value may not be recoverable. In addition, we evaluate goodwill for impairment at least annually.  A significant amount of judgment is involved in performing these evaluations since the results are based on estimated future events.  The estimated future cash flows used to test our proved oil and gas properties for recoverability are based on proved and, if determined reasonable by management, risk-adjusted probable reserves, utilizing assumptions generally consistent with the assumptions utilized by the Company's management for internal planning and budgeting purposes, including, among other things, the use of the asset, anticipated production from reserves, future market prices for natural gas, NGLs and oil, future operating costs and inflation.  Commodity pricing is estimated by using a combination of the five-year. 23. Table of Contents. NYMEX forward strip prices and assumptions related to gas quality, basis and inflation. Proved oil and gas properties and midstream assets that have carrying amounts in excess of estimated future cash flows are written down to fair value, which is estimated by discounting the estimated future cash flows using discount rate assumptions that marketplace participants would use in their estimates of fair value.. Our estimate of the fair value of our assets depends on the prices of natural gas, NGLs and oil. Primarily as a result of declines in NYMEX forward strip prices, we recorded non-cash, pre-tax impairment charges of $59.7 million to certain long-lived  assets during 2016 and $94.3 million to our proved oil and gas properties in the non-core Permian basin during 2015.  Future declines in natural gas, NGLs or oil prices, increases in operating costs or adverse changes in well performance, among other things, may result in our having to make significant future downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves and/or could result in additional non-cash impairment charges to write-down the carrying amount of our assets, including goodwill and other long lived intangible assets, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in future periods. For example, all other things being equal, a further decline in the average five-year NYMEX forward strip price in a future period may cause the Company to recognize impairments on non-core assets, including the Company's assets in the Huron play, which had a carrying value of approximately $3 billion at December 31, 2017. Any impairment of our assets, including goodwill and other long lived intangible assets, would require us to take an immediate charge to earnings.  Such charges could be material to our results of operations and could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. See \"Impairment of Oil and Gas Properties and Goodwill\" under Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\". The amount and timing of actual future natural gas, NGLs and oil production is difficult to predict and may vary significantly from our estimates, which may reduce our earnings.. Our future success depends upon our ability to develop additional gas reserves that are economically recoverable and to optimize existing well production, and our failure to do so may reduce our earnings.  Our drilling and subsequent maintenance of wells can involve significant risks, including those related to timing, cost overruns and operational efficiency, and these risks can be affected by the availability of capital, leases, rigs, equipment, a qualified work force, and adequate capacity for the treatment and recycling or disposal of waste water generated in our operations, as well as weather conditions, natural gas, NGLs and oil price volatility, government approvals, title and property access problems, geology, equipment failure or accidents and other factors.  Drilling for natural gas, NGLs and oil can be unprofitable, not only from dry wells, but from productive wells that do not produce sufficient revenues to return a profit.  Additionally, a failure to effectively and efficiently operate existing wells may cause production volumes to fall short of our projections.  Without continued successful development or acquisition activities, together with effective operation of existing wells, our reserves and revenues will decline as a result of our current reserves being depleted by production.. We also rely on third parties for certain construction, drilling and completion services, materials and supplies.  Delays or failures to perform by such third parties could adversely impact our earnings, cash flows and financial position.. The standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves is not the same as the current market value of our estimated natural gas, NGLs and oil reserves.. You should not assume that the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves is the current market value of our estimated natural gas, NGLs and oil reserves.  In accordance with SEC requirements, we based the discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves on the twelve month unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for the preceding twelve months without giving effect to derivative transactions. Actual future net cash flows from our properties will be affected by factors such as the actual prices we receive for natural gas, NGLs and oil, the amount, timing and cost of actual production and changes in governmental regulations or taxation.  In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating the standardized measure may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the natural gas, NGLs and oil industry in general.. Our proved reserves are estimates that are based upon many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate.  Any significant change in these underlying assumptions will greatly affect the quantities and present value of our reserves.. Reserve engineering is a subjective process involving estimates of underground accumulations of natural gas, NGLs and oil and assumptions concerning future prices, production levels and operating and development costs, some of which are beyond our control.   These estimates and assumptions are inherently imprecise, and we may adjust our estimates of proved reserves based on changes in these estimates or assumptions.  As a result, estimated quantities of proved reserves and projections of future production rates and the timing of development expenditures may prove to be inaccurate.   Any significant variance from our assumptions could greatly affect our estimates of reserves, the economically recoverable quantities of natural gas, NGLs and oil, the classifications of reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of the future net cash flows.  Numerous changes over time. 24. Table of Contents. to the assumptions on which our reserve estimates are based, as described above, often result in the actual quantities of natural gas, NGLs and oil we ultimately recover being different from our reserve estimates.. See Item 7A, \"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,\" for further discussion regarding the Company's exposure to market risks, including the risks associated with the Company's use of derivative contracts to hedge commodity prices."
