[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risk Factors Related to our Proposed Merger with CenturyTel. Failure to complete the proposed merger could negatively impact our stock price and our future business and financial results.. If the merger is not completed, our ongoing business may be adversely affected and become subject to several risks, including the following:. <U+0095>    We may be required, under certain circumstances, to pay a termination fee of $200 million;. <U+0095>    We may be required to pay certain costs and expenditures relating to the proposed merger, such as legal, accounting, financial advisor and other costs associated with the merger; and. <U+0095>    The focus of our management on the merger may preclude us from pursuing other opportunities that could be beneficial to the company.. Without realizing any of the benefits of a completed merger, we cannot assure our shareholders that these risks will not materialize and will not materially affect the business, financial results and stock price of Embarq.. The pendency of the merger could adversely affect our business and operations.. In connection with the pending merger, some customers may delay or defer decisions, which could negatively impact revenues, earnings and cash flows, regardless of whether the merger is completed. Similarly, current and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the combined company following the merger, which may materially adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key personnel during the pendency of the merger.. Risk Factors Relating to our Business. The current economic, credit and financial market conditions may adversely affect our business.. During 2008, general domestic and global economic conditions have worsened, resulting in significant declines in equity, debt and derivative markets, diminished credit availability, volatility in securities prices, declining real estate values and an overall reduction in investor sentiment. Although we have remained fairly insulated from these pressures, these conditions may adversely impact our business in the future in the following ways:. <U+0095>    Certain customers may choose to forgo some or all of our services due to the rate of unemployment, level of consumer confidence or other economic conditions, resulting in reduced revenues.. <U+0095>    Our vendors and professional service partners' financial condition and operations have been and may continue to be negatively impacted resulting service outages, product shortages or bankruptcy.. <U+0095>    Although we have a $1.5 billion revolving credit facility, which is set to expire in 2011, the current economic conditions could impair our ability to access additional financing.. <U+0095>    We sponsor noncontributory defined benefit pension plans whose plan assets have declined approximately $1 billion in 2008 primarily because of the current market conditions affecting the underlying securities. These losses, if sustained, will require a significant increase in employer contributions resulting in decreased cash flow from operations.. We face widespread competition that may reduce our market share and harm our financial performance.. We face significant competition from a number of different types of communications services providers, including wireless communications service providers, cable and other companies offering VoIP, integrated communication service providers, alternative access vendors, cities and local governments, over-builders, CLECs, and ISPs.. As wireless service providers continue to expand, begin offering unlimited calling plans or otherwise reduce their prices and improve their network coverage, some customers choose to stop using traditional wireline phone service and instead rely solely on wireless service. We anticipate that this trend will continue and could negatively impact our wireline revenues and our current wireless offerings. Technological developments in cellular telephone, personal communications services, digital microwave, satellite, broadband radio services, local multipoint distribution services, meshed wireless fidelity, or WiFi, and other wireless technologies are expected to permit the further development of alternatives to traditional wireline communications services.. We also face increasing competition from cable operators and other service providers offering high-speed Internet and VoIP services. As VoIP becomes a more robust and widely available service and operators continue to add more features and functionality, existing competitors could become more formidable and new competitors could enter our markets.. 13. Many of our current and potential competitors have market presence, engineering, technical and marketing capabilities as well as financial, personnel and other resources more abundant than ours. Additionally, through mergers, joint ventures and various service expansion strategies, providers of competing communication services are increasingly able to provide integrated services in many of the markets we serve. Also, some of our competitors can conduct operations or raise capital at a lower cost than we can and are subject to less regulation, taxes or fees. Consequently, some competitors are able to charge lower prices for their products and services, to develop and expand their communications and network infrastructures more quickly, to adapt more swiftly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements and to devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products and services than we can.. Competition may adversely impact our revenues and profits in several ways, including:. <U+0095>    Losing customers and market share;. <U+0095>    Forcing us to lower prices or increase capital investment or marketing expenses to remain competitive; and. <U+0095>    Increasing our need to incur additional costs to diversify by offering new products or services.. Furthermore, customers could adversely impact revenues and profits by shifting to less profitable data-driven services.. New technologies may be developed that could displace our service offerings.. We expect competition to intensify as new technologies, products and services are developed. Changes in technology may permit new entrants into the communications services marketplace, and as a result the future prospects of the incumbent wireline industry and the success of our services remain uncertain. We cannot predict with certainty which of many possible future technologies, products or services will be important for us to develop in order to maintain our competitive position or what expenditures will be required to develop and provide these technologies, products or services. To the extent we do not keep pace with technological advances or fail to timely respond to technology-driven changes in our industry, we could lose market share or experience a decline in revenue and earnings or profits.. Our industry is highly regulated and continues to undergo various regulatory and legislative changes, which could adversely affect our prospects and results of operations.. As an ILEC, we have been and continue to be subject to significant regulation from federal, state and local governments and in many respects are subject to more extensive regulation than our competitors. This regulation imposes substantial compliance costs on us, and often restricts our ability to adjust rates to reflect market conditions and impacts our ability to compete and respond to changing industry conditions. In recent years, the communications industry has undergone various fundamental regulatory changes that have generally permitted competition in each segment of the telephone industry, while also permitting, in more limited respects, reduced regulation of ILECs. Congress and state legislatures may enact laws, and the FCC and state regulatory commissions may adopt new regulations or take other actions that could adversely affect our business prospects or results of operations.. Pending rule changes could also have a substantial impact on our operations, including, in particular, rule changes for intercarrier compensation and universal service. On November 5, 2008, the FCC issued a draft document that, among other things, requested public comment on a draft proposal of the then FCC chairman designed to comprehensively redefine and reform the FCC's intercarrier compensation and USF rules. The draft proposes to reduce intrastate and interstate access rates and local reciprocal compensation rates to levels substantially below those currently charged by Embarq. The draft also proposes changes to USF rules that would mandate ubiquitous broadband deployment, freeze the level of certain USF support payments, and expand various USF programs, the combined effect of which would adversely impact local exchange carriers by limiting the amount of USF revenues available to them and increasing their operating costs. Comments on the draft proposals were filed November 26, 2008, and reply comments were due December 22, 2008. It is currently unclear what action the FCC may take action with respect to the draft proposals. As previously disclosed by Embarq, adoption of the chairman's original proposal, which is published in the November 5, 2008 document, could result in a material adverse impact on the results of our operations.. In May 2008, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit directed the FCC to justify its rules regulating the compensation that telecommunications companies pay to internet service providers, or ISPs, for dial-up calls that ISPs receive from their customers. The FCC issued an order to maintain the existing rules and altered its justification for the rules. The Order has been appealed and a ruling on the appeal is expected in 2009. If the existing rules are overturned on appeal and not replaced with comparable rules, we could face substantially higher costs for terminating calls to ISPs and potential claims alleging underpayment for past traffic.. Proposals in Congress and at the FCC that would regulate the manner in which providers of high-speed Internet service may manage their networks or utilize data from their customers could affect our ability to manage our network and market IP-based value-added services to our customers. These proposals are sometimes referred to as \"Internet regulation\" or \"net neutrality\" proposals. It is uncertain whether any such regulations will be adopted or enforcement actions taken, and if so, what impact they may have on our business.. 14. FCC regulations require service providers to maintain safeguards to prevent the unauthorized use or disclosure of Customer Proprietary Network Information, or CPNI, which were recently revised to require additional security procedures that required modifications to our practices. Additional proposed CPNI rules are pending consideration at the FCC that could require further modification of our use and protection of this data. Additionally, the Federal Trade Commission is considering principles governing on-line behavioral marketing and consumer privacy. It is uncertain whether any new regulations or enforcement actions will be undertaken, and if so, what impact they may have on our business.. Litigation and different objectives among federal and state regulators could create uncertainty and delay our ability to respond to new regulations. Moreover, changes in tax laws, regulations or policies could increase our tax rate. We are unable to predict the future actions of Congress, state legislatures and the various regulatory bodies that govern us, but those actions could materially affect our business.. We have substantial indebtedness, which could restrict our ability to pay dividends and have a negative impact on our financing options and liquidity.. The extent to which we are leveraged could:. <U+0095>    Limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures and acquisitions;. <U+0095>    Limit our ability to refinance our indebtedness on terms acceptable to us or at all;. <U+0095>    Require us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to paying the principal of and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing funds available for other corporate purposes;. <U+0095>    Prevent or make it more difficult for us to pay our anticipated cash dividends on our common stock and remain in compliance with the terms of our indebtedness; and. <U+0095>    Make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures.. We may not have access to capital on acceptable terms, and if we are not able to obtain sufficient financing, we may be unable to maintain or grow our business.. Since the spin-off, our credit ratings from each of the major rating agencies have remained at the lower end of investment grade. Credit ratings affect the interest rate charged on financings, as well as the amounts of indebtedness and types of financing structures that may be available to us. Regulatory restrictions and the terms of our indebtedness limit our ability to raise capital through our subsidiaries, pledge the stock of our subsidiaries, encumber the assets of our subsidiaries and cause our subsidiaries to guarantee our indebtedness. We may not be able to raise the capital we require on acceptable terms, if at all. If we are not able to obtain sufficient financing, we may be unable to maintain or grow our business.. Our financing arrangements subject us to various restrictions that could limit our operating flexibility.. Our credit agreement and other financing arrangements contain covenants and other restrictions that, among other things, require us to satisfy certain financial tests and ratios and restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness. In addition, both the indenture governing our senior notes and our credit agreement restrict our ability to create liens, which could limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness. The restrictions and covenants in our financing arrangements, and in future financing arrangements, may limit our ability to respond to market conditions, provide for capital investment needs, or take advantage of business opportunities by limiting the amount of additional indebtedness we may incur. See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Liquidity.\". The need to raise additional capital may adversely affect holders of our common stock by increasing our leverage and reducing our credit ratings.. We may need to incur additional debt or issue securities to fund working capital needs, capital expenditures and product development requirements or to make acquisitions and other investments. Any debt securities or preferred stock we issue will have liquidation rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. If we raise funds through the issuance of common equity, ownership interest will be diluted, and we may lower the per share amount of any dividends.. 15. We do not benefit from the economics of ownership associated with the network infrastructure to support our long distance and other video entertainment offerings. Additionally, we do not own or have a license to all technology that may be necessary to expand our product offerings. Both of these could adversely affect our business and profitability.. We may need to obtain the right to use certain patents from Sprint Nextel or third parties to be able to offer new products and services. We have the right to use all of Sprint Nextel's existing patents for a five-year period after the spin-off, however, we do have the right to use the Sprint Nextel patents for business that we were conducting as of the spin-off for the life of those patents. If we cannot license or otherwise obtain rights to use any required technology from Sprint Nextel following that five-year period or from a third party on reasonable terms, our ability to offer new IP-based products and services, including VoIP, or other new offerings may be restricted, made more costly or delayed. Our inability to implement IP-based or other new offerings on a cost-effective basis could impair our ability to successfully meet increasing competition from companies offering integrated communications services, including cable operators and other service providers offering high-speed Internet services that can be used as a platform to support voice services utilizing VoIP. Our inability to deploy new technologies could also prevent us from successfully diversifying, modifying or bundling our service offerings and result in accelerated loss of access lines, customer usage and revenues or otherwise adversely affect our business and profitability.. Restrictions in the patent agreement entered into with Sprint Nextel could adversely affect our ability to grow through acquisitions, or make divestitures.. If we grow by acquisitions to become more than twice our size as of the spin-off date, any new companies that we acquire, or operations that are integrated with new acquisitions, will not have the benefit of the patent agreement with Sprint Nextel. Also, if we undergo a change in control and there is a functional integration of our operations with a third party we will lose the benefits of some or all of the patents governed by the patent agreement with Sprint Nextel. The benefits of that agreement do not extend to any parent company or any companies under common control with us. These limitations may make it more difficult or expensive to integrate part of our operations with CenturyTel, or alternatively increase our costs to gain access to technology if the benefits of the Patent Agreement terminate. Divestitures of our assets and operations could also be restricted because the benefits of the agreement would continue to apply only if divested operations or assets are isolated from the other members of the corporate group making the acquisition and only if the business is conducted in substantially the same manner and in substantially the same geographic area that it was conducted before the divestiture. These limitations may make our assets less attractive to a potential acquirer and could reduce the value that an acquirer would be willing to pay for the assets.. A significant portion of our workforce is unionized, and if we are unable to reach new agreements before our current labor contracts expire, our unionized workers could engage in strikes or other labor actions that could materially disrupt our ability to provide services to our customers.. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately 16 thousand active employees. Approximately 34% of these employees were represented by unions subject to collective bargaining agreements. Of the union-represented employees, approximately 27% had collective bargaining agreements that will expire in 2009. We cannot predict the outcome of these negotiations and may be unable to reach new agreements, and union employees may engage in strikes, work slowdowns or other labor actions, which could materially disrupt our ability to provide services. New labor agreements may impose significant new costs on us, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in the future.. We face hurricane and other natural disaster risks, which can disrupt our operations and cause us to incur substantial additional capital costs.. Approximately 52% of our access lines are located in Florida, North Carolina, South Carolina and Texas, and our operations there are subject to the many hazards inherent in being located in areas frequently hit by severe storms, hurricanes and tornadoes, including downed telephone lines, power-outages, damaged or destroyed property and equipment, and work interruptions.. Although we maintain property and casualty insurance and may under certain circumstances be able to seek recovery of some additional costs through increased rates, only a portion of our additional costs directly related to such hurricanes and natural disasters have historically been recoverable. We cannot predict whether we will continue to be able to obtain insurance for hazard-related damages or, if obtainable and carried, whether this insurance will be adequate to cover our losses. In addition, we expect any insurance of this nature to be subject to substantial deductibles and to provide for premium adjustments based on claims. Any future hazard-related costs and work interruptions could adversely affect our operations and our financial condition.. 16. Risk Factors Relating to Ownership of our Common Stock. The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile.. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly for many reasons, including in response to the risk factors listed in this report or for reasons not specifically related to our performance, such as industry or market trends, reports by industry analysts, investor perceptions, actions by credit rating agencies or negative announcements by our customers or competitors regarding their own performance, as well as general economic and industry conditions. For example, to the extent that other companies within our industry experience declines in their stock price, our stock price may decline as well.. Anti-takeover provisions of our certificate of incorporation and certain provisions of Delaware law could delay or prevent a change of control that shareholders may favor.. Provisions included in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or other change of control that stockholders may consider favorable or may impede the ability of the holders of our common stock to change our management. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation or bylaws, among other things, include:. <U+0095>    Limiting the right of stockholders to call meetings of stockholders;. <U+0095>    Regulating how stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at annual meetings of stockholders;. <U+0095>    Requiring any business combination initiated by a stockholder of 10% or more of our common stock to be approved by the holders of at least 75% of our common stock; and. <U+0095>    Authorizing our board of directors to issue preferred stock in one or more series, without stockholder approval.. Risk Relating to the Spin-off from Sprint Nextel. Our future financial performance may be worse than the performance reflected in our historical financial information.. For the periods prior to spin-off, the historical financial information included in this annual report does not reflect what our results of operations and cash flows would have been had we been an independent company during the entire periods presented. This is primarily a result of the following:. <U+0095>    Our historical financial information for the periods prior to spin-off reflects allocations for services historically provided by Sprint Nextel. These allocations are different from the costs and do not reflect the increased costs associated with being an independent company, including changes in our cost structure, personnel needs, financing and operations of the business and from reduced economies of scale; and. <U+0095>    Our historical financial information for periods prior to spin-off does not reflect the debt and related interest expense that was incurred as part of the spin-off. See Note 4, Long-Term Debt and Financial Instruments, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information.. For additional information about the past financial performance of our business and the basis of presentation of the historical consolidated financial statements see Item 6, \"Selected Financial Data,\" Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Result of Operation\" and the \"Consolidated Financial Statements,\" included elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K.. Before our spin-off from Sprint Nextel, our business was principally operated as one of Sprint Nextel's business units, and therefore we have only a brief operating history as an independent public company. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our business strategy and operations will be successful on a stand-alone basis.. We could incur a significant liability if the distribution of Embarq common stock in the spin-off is determined to be a taxable transaction. If the distribution does not qualify as a tax-free transaction, tax could be imposed on Sprint Nextel and we may be required to indemnify Sprint Nextel for such tax.. On July 20, 2005, Sprint Nextel received a private letter ruling from the IRS that the spin-off qualifies for tax-free treatment under Code Sections 355 and 361. In addition, Sprint Nextel obtained an opinion of counsel from each of Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP and Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP that the spin-off so qualified. Such opinions primarily addressed those tax matters upon which the IRS customarily declines to rule. Notwithstanding the IRS private letter ruling and the opinions, the IRS could determine that the distribution should be treated as a taxable transaction if it determines that any of the representations, assumptions or undertakings that were included in the request for the private letter ruling are false or have been violated and/or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinions that are not covered by the IRS ruling.. 17. If the spin-off failed to qualify for tax-free treatment, it will be treated as a taxable dividend to Sprint Nextel stockholders in an amount equal to the fair market value of our common stock issued to Sprint Nextel holders and Sprint Nextel would be required to recognize taxable gain in an amount up to the fair market value of our common stock that Sprint Nextel distributed to its stockholders in the spin-off plus the fair market value of the senior notes that Sprint Nextel received from us. Furthermore, events after the spin-off could cause Sprint Nextel to recognize such gain even if the spin-off otherwise would have qualified for tax-free treatment. For example, under Code Section 355(e), relatively small acquisitions of either our equity securities or Sprint Nextel's equity securities that are deemed to be part of a plan or a series of related transactions that include the spin-off could cause Sprint Nextel to recognize gain on the spin-off. Under the tax sharing agreement between Sprint Nextel and us, we are generally required to indemnify Sprint Nextel against any tax resulting from the spin-off if such tax results from (1) an issuance of our equity securities, a redemption of our equity securities or our involvement in other acquisitions of our equity securities, (2) other actions or failures to act by us or (3) any of our representations or undertakings being incorrect or violated. We estimate that if any of these conditions occur the indemnification obligation to Sprint Nextel for taxes would be significant and we are unlikely to have the ability to pay that obligation."
