[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors.. Our business faces many risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face but are the risks we know of that we believe may be material at this time. Additional risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently think are immaterial, may also impair our business operations or financial results. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our securities could decline. Investors and prospective investors should consider the following risks and the information contained under the heading \"Forward Looking Statements\" before deciding whether to invest in our securities.. Risks Related to Our Business. We may be unsuccessful in repositioning our portfolio through dispositions or acquisitions, which could negatively impact our stockholders' return on investment.. We are seeking to continue selling properties and to reinvest the capital from dispositions, but we cannot provide any assurances that we will be successful.  The ability of our management team to reposition our portfolio depends substantially on identifying and completing dispositions and acquisitions at favorable prices.  If we are unable to do so, then we will be unable to complete our portfolio repositioning, which could negatively impact our stockholders' return on investment.. If we are unable to make successful acquisitions, we may decide to sell or liquidate the Company, which could negatively impact our stockholders' return on investment.. We may not be successful in making acquisitions using the significant cash we have accumulated from prior dispositions. Our ability to identify and consummate acquisitions of properties or businesses is subject to significant risks, including the following:. • We may be unable to identify attractive acquisition opportunities;. • We may be unable to make acquisitions at favorable prices;. • We may be unable to make an acquisition because of competition from other real estate investors, such as publicly traded REITs and institutional investment funds; and. • We may be unable to finance acquisitions on favorable terms or at all.. If we are unable to make acquisitions on favorable terms, we may sell or liquidate the Company.  The Board of Trustees and management regularly evaluate the best course of action for the Company and have not set a timetable for making any decision regarding a sale or liquidation of the Company. If a sale or liquidation of the Company occurs, our common shareholders' return on investment could be negatively impacted.. 4. We may make acquisitions that are viewed unfavorably by our investors, which could negatively affect our stock price.. We may make acquisitions that are viewed unfavorably by our investors. We evaluate a range of opportunities, including portfolios of properties, individual properties and businesses. As our portfolio has decreased in size, a significant acquisition will have a greater impact on our Company. Our investors may view an acquisition that we make unfavorably for a number of reasons, including because they believe we overvalued the acquired assets or they disfavor the property type, quality or location of the acquired assets. If we make a significant acquisition that is viewed unfavorably by our investors, then our stock price could be negatively affected.. We may incur significant costs pursuing acquisition opportunities that we can not consummate, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. We may incur significant costs pursuing acquisitions that we never consummate. For example, when we investigate acquisition opportunities, we typically incur expenses exploring such opportunities. Such costs include those related to due diligence and legal, advisory and consulting fees. The incurrence of failed pursuit costs could adversely affect our results of operations.. We may encounter unanticipated difficulties relating to acquired properties, which may inhibit our growth and have a material adverse effect on us.. Even if we are able to make acquisitions on favorable terms, we might encounter unanticipated difficulties and expenditures relating to acquired properties. For example, notwithstanding pre-acquisition due diligence, we could acquire a property that contains undisclosed defects in design or construction. Similarly, properties we acquire may be subject to unknown liabilities without any recourse or with only limited recourse, such as liabilities for clean-up of environmental contamination, claims by customers, vendors or other persons dealing with the former owners of the properties and claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties. In addition, after our acquisition of a property, the market in which the acquired property is located may experience unexpected changes that adversely affect the property's value.  The occupancy of properties that we acquire may decline during our ownership, and rents that are in effect at the time a property is acquired may decline thereafter. Also, our property operating and capital costs for acquisitions may be higher than we anticipate and acquisitions of properties may not yield the returns we expect and may result in shareholder dilution. We may not integrate properties or businesses we acquire successfully or anticipated synergies, revenues, cost-savings or operating metrics may not be achieved or be less than we estimated.  For these reasons, among others, our business plan to acquire additional properties may not be successful.. We may make dispositions on unfavorable terms or that result in expenses or reputational harm.. Our current business plan focuses on owning larger office buildings in central business districts and major urban areas in markets and sub-markets with favorable long-term supply and demand fundamentals.  In order to execute this strategy, we will need to selectively dispose of certain assets, hold other assets and acquire new assets.  We may not be able to find attractive sale opportunities for assets we wish to dispose of in order to execute our repositioning strategy or that any sale will be completed in a timely manner, if at all. Our ability to continue to sell certain of our properties, and the prices we receive in any such sales, may be negatively affected by many factors. In particular, these factors could arise from weakness in or the lack of an established market for a property, the illiquid nature of real estate assets, changes in the financial condition or prospects of tenants and prospective purchasers, a limited number of prospective purchasers in certain markets, increase in the cost of or lack of availability of debt, the number of competing properties on the market, a deterioration in current local, national or international economic conditions, and changes in laws, regulations or fiscal policies of jurisdictions in which the property is located. In addition, provisions of the Code relating to REITs may limit our ability to sell properties.  See risk factor below \"Risks Related to Our Taxation as a REIT - The tax on \"prohibited transactions\" may limit our ability to engage in transactions which would be treated as sales for U.S. federal income tax purposes.\" For these reasons, we may be unable to sell certain of our properties for an extended period of time or at all, our business plan to sell certain of our properties may not succeed, and we may incur expenses and reputational harm.. We may not decrease our general and administrative expenses as the size of our portfolio decreases, which could have a negative effect on our results of operations.. Because our current strategy is to grow through acquisitions, we maintain a level of staffing that we believe will enable us to effectively identify acquisition opportunities and integrate any acquisitions that we complete. As a result of this strategy, our general and administrative expenses may be higher than if we were not seeking growth through acquisitions. If we are unable to grow through acquisitions and do not decrease our general and administrative expenses proportionately as we sell assets, our profitability and our results of operations could be adversely affected.. 5. Our reliance upon CBRE, Inc., or CBRE, for third party property management may have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We have engaged CBRE to provide property management services for our properties pursuant to a master property management agreement. The successful operation and management of our properties requires significant coordination between us and CBRE.  Additionally, since the expiration of the initial term of our agreement with CBRE in September 2016, CBRE can terminate the property management agreement, as a whole or as to any one or more of our properties, without cause upon providing three months' notice, and we are permitted to terminate the property management agreement, as a whole or as to any one or more of our properties, without cause upon 60 days' notice.  If we are unable to successfully coordinate with CBRE with respect to property management or the property management agreement with CBRE is terminated, in whole or in part, our operations could be disrupted, which may have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We are currently dependent upon economic conditions relating to the commercial office real estate market, and adverse economic or regulatory developments in this market could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.. Our business is influenced by the economic and regulatory environment (such as business layoffs or downsizing, industry slowdowns, relocations of businesses, increases in real estate and other taxes, costs of complying with governmental regulations or increased regulation). Such adverse developments could materially reduce the value of our real estate portfolio and our rental revenues, and thus materially and adversely affect our ability to service current debt and to pay distributions to shareholders. If economic conditions in our market worsen or fail to grow at a sufficient pace, we may experience reduced demand from tenants for our properties. In particular, as we have concentrated our portfolio in fewer markets, we are increasingly exposed to regional and local adverse economic and other conditions that could have a negative effect on our results of operations.  A significant economic downturn in one or more of our markets could adversely affect our results of operations.. Future impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period for which the charge occurs.. We periodically evaluate the recoverability of the carrying values of each of the real estate assets that comprise our portfolio.  In undertaking our portfolio reviews, we comprehensively review our portfolio to evaluate whether there are any indicators, including property operating performance and general market conditions, that the value of the real estate properties (including any related amortizable intangible assets or liabilities) may not be recoverable. We recorded impairment charges of $19.7 million, $58.5 million and $17.2 million during the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively, based upon updated market information in accordance with our impairment analysis procedures. There can be no assurance that we will not take additional charges in the future related to the impairment of our assets.. As part of the evaluation of our portfolio, we compare the current carrying value of the asset to the estimated undiscounted cash flows that are directly associated with the use and ultimate disposition of the asset. Our estimated cash flows are based on several key assumptions, including rental rates, costs of tenant improvements, leasing commissions, anticipated hold periods, and assumptions regarding the residual value upon disposition, including the exit capitalization rate. These key assumptions are subjective in nature and could differ materially from actual results. Additionally, changes in our disposition strategy or changes in the marketplace may alter the hold period of an asset or asset group, which may result in an impairment loss and such loss could be material to the Company's financial condition or operating performance. To the extent that the carrying value of the asset exceeds the estimated undiscounted cash flows, an impairment loss is recognized equal to the excess of carrying value over fair value. Any future impairment could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the charge is taken.. Additionally, the fair value of real estate assets is highly subjective and is determined through comparable sales information and other market data if available, or through use of an income approach such as the direct capitalization method or the discounted cash flow approach. Such cash flow projections consider factors, including expected future operating income, trends and prospects, as well as the effects of demand, competition and other factors, and therefore are subject to a significant degree of management judgment. In estimating the fair value of undeveloped land, we generally use market data and comparable sales information. These subjective assessments have a direct impact on our net income because recording an impairment charge results in an immediate negative adjustment to net income. Thus, our results of operations may be significantly affected by the subjective judgments of our management team as to the fair value of our properties.. 6. If global market and economic conditions worsen, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. We are unable to predict with any certainty whether economic conditions will decline, remain stable or improve. If current economic conditions deteriorate, business layoffs, downsizing, industry slowdowns and other similar factors that affect our tenants could negatively impact commercial real estate fundamentals and result in lower occupancy, lower rental rates and declining values in our real estate portfolio. Additionally, the cost and availability of credit and the commercial real estate market generally may be adversely affected by persistent high levels of unemployment, insufficient consumer demand or confidence, the impacts of changes in the U.S. federal budgetary process, changes in regulatory environments and other macro-economic factors.  Deteriorating economic conditions could also have an impact on our lenders or tenants, causing them to fail to meet their obligations to us. No assurances can be given that the current economic conditions will remain stable or improve, and if market and economic conditions weaken, our ability to lease our properties and increase or maintain rental rates may be affected, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We rely on the financial condition of our tenants and would be harmed by a weakening of such condition or the inability of our tenants to pay rent.. Our performance depends on the financial condition of our tenants and their ability to fulfill their lease obligations by paying their rental payments in a timely manner. As a result, we would be harmed if one or more of our major tenants, or a number of our smaller tenants, were to experience financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, insolvency, or general downturn of business.  As of December 31, 2017, the 13 largest tenants in our operating portfolio represented approximately 43.8% of our annualized rental revenue.  The inability of a major tenant to pay rent, or the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant, may adversely affect income.  If any of our major tenants were to experience a downturn in its business, or a weakening of its financial condition, such an event could have an adverse effect on our investment or our financial condition.. Significant competition for tenants may reduce rents which could materially and adversely affect our company.. All of our properties face competition for tenants. Some competing properties may be newer, better located or more attractive to tenants. Competing owners may offer available space at lower rents than we offer at our properties. This competition may affect our ability to attract and retain tenants and may reduce the rents we are able to charge.. When we renew leases or lease to new tenants our rents may decline and our expenses may increase and changes in tenants' requirements for leased space may adversely affect us.. As of December 31, 2017, leases representing 4.7% of our portfolio square footage will expire by the end of 2018 and an additional 10.0% of our portfolio square footage will expire by the end of 2019.  When we renew leases or lease to new tenants we may receive less rent than we currently receive. Market conditions may require us to lower our rents to retain tenants. When we lease to new tenants or renew leases we may have to spend substantial amounts for leasing commissions, tenant improvements or tenant inducements. Many of our leases are for properties that are specially suited to the particular business of our tenants. Because these properties have been designed or physically modified for a particular tenant, if the current lease is terminated or not renewed, we may be required to renovate the property at substantial costs, decrease the rent we charge or provide other concessions in order to lease the property to another tenant. In general, tenants have been seeking to increase their space utilization under their leases, including reducing the amount of square footage per employee at leased properties, which may reduce the demand for leased space. If a significant number of such events occur, our income and cash flow may materially decline and our ability to make regular distributions to our shareholders may be jeopardized.. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from ten of our properties, which puts us at risk of losses at such properties having a material adverse effect on our business.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 85.6% of our annualized rental revenue was derived from 10 of our 16 properties. Events that negatively impact one or more of these properties, such as a natural disaster, would have a much larger adverse effect on our revenues than a corresponding occurrence affecting a less significant property. If the revenues generated by one or more of these properties were to decline substantially, such decline could have a material adverse effect on our business.. The loss of key personnel, including our senior management team, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. The loss of key personnel could negatively affect our ability to operate effectively and could have a negative result on our business.  The execution of our repositioning strategy and management of our operations depend to a significant degree on our senior management team. Our senior management team has extensive experience and a strong reputation in the real estate. 7. industry, which aid us in identifying opportunities, having opportunities brought to us, and negotiating with tenants. If we are unable to attract and retain skilled executives, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. We have substantial debt obligations which could materially and adversely affect our cost of operations.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $848.6 million in debt outstanding, which was 20.0% of our total book capitalization. As a result, we are and expect to be subject to the risks normally associated with debt financing, including that:. • interest rates may rise;. • our cash flow will be insufficient to make required payments of principal and interest;. • any refinancing will not be on terms as favorable as those of our existing debt;. • required payments on mortgages and on our other debt are not reduced if the economic performance of any property declines;. • debt service obligations will reduce funds available for distribution to our shareholders;. • any default on our debt, due to noncompliance with financial covenants or otherwise, could result in acceleration of those obligations;. • we may be unable to refinance or repay the debt as it becomes due, and. • if our degree of leverage is viewed unfavorably by lenders or potential joint venture partners, it could affect our ability to obtain additional financing.. If we default in paying any of our debts or honoring our debt covenants, it may create one or more cross defaults, our debts may be accelerated and we could be forced to liquidate our assets for less than the values we would receive in a more orderly process. Additionally, we may not be able to refinance or repay debt as it becomes due which may force us to refinance or to incur additional indebtedness at higher rates and additional cost or, in the extreme case, to sell assets or seek protection from our creditors under applicable law.. Mortgage debt obligations expose us to the possibility of foreclosure, which could result in the loss of our investment in a property or group of properties subject to mortgage debt.. Incurring mortgage and other secured debt obligations increases our risk of property losses because defaults on indebtedness secured by properties may result in foreclosure actions initiated by lenders and ultimately our loss of the property securing any loans for which we are in default. Any foreclosure on a mortgaged property or group of properties could adversely affect the overall value of our portfolio of properties. For tax purposes, a foreclosure of any of our properties that is subject to a nonrecourse mortgage loan would be treated as a sale of the property for a purchase price equal to the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage. If the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage exceeds our tax basis in the property, we would recognize taxable income on foreclosure, but would not receive any cash proceeds.. Our failure or inability to meet certain terms of our credit agreement, which includes our unsecured revolving credit facility and term loans, may prevent us from making distributions to our shareholders.. Our credit agreement includes various conditions to borrowings and various financial and other covenants, including covenants requiring us to maintain certain minimum debt service coverage and maximum leverage ratios, and events of default. We may not be able to satisfy all of these conditions or may default on some of these covenants for various reasons, including matters which are beyond our control. If we are unable to borrow under our revolving credit facility, we may be unable to meet our business obligations or to grow by buying additional properties, or we may be required to sell some of our properties. If we default under our credit agreement, the lenders may demand immediate payment or elect not to make further borrowings available. Additionally, during the continuance of any event of default under our credit agreement, we will be limited or in some cases prohibited from making distributions on our shares. Any default under our credit agreement would likely have serious and adverse consequences to us and would likely cause the market price of our shares to materially decline.. In the future, we may obtain additional debt financing, and the covenants and conditions which apply to any such additional indebtedness may be more restrictive than the covenants and conditions contained in our current credit agreement.. Changes in capital markets may adversely affect the value of an investment in our shares.. Although interest rates remain below historical long term averages, interest rates have recently risen. Increases in interest rates may adversely affect us and the value of an investment in our shares, including in the following ways:. 8. • Amounts outstanding under our credit agreement bear interest at variable interest rates. When interest rates increase, so will our interest costs, which could adversely affect our cash flow, ability to pay principal and interest on debt, cost of refinancing debt when it becomes due and ability to make or sustain distributions to our shareholders. Additionally, if we choose to hedge our interest rate risk, we cannot assure that the hedge will be effective or that our hedging counterparty will meet its obligations to us.. • An increase in interest rates could decrease the amount buyers may be willing to pay for our properties, thereby reducing the market value of our properties and limiting our ability to sell properties or to obtain mortgage financing secured by our properties. Increased interest rates may increase the cost of financing properties we acquire to the extent we utilize leverage for those acquisitions and may result in a reduction in our acquisitions to the extent we reduce the amount we offer to pay for properties, due to the effect of increased interest rates, to a price that sellers may not accept.. A lack of any limitation on our debt could result in our becoming more highly leveraged.. Our governing documents do not limit the amount of indebtedness we may incur. Furthermore, our note indenture and credit agreement permit us and our subsidiaries to incur additional debt, including secured debt. Accordingly, we may incur additional debt. We might become more highly leveraged as a result, and our financial condition, results of operations and cash available for distribution to shareholders might be negatively affected, and the risk of default on our indebtedness could increase.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of integrated internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results.. Effective internal and disclosure controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud and to operate successfully as a public company. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results would be harmed. As part of our ongoing monitoring of internal controls we may discover material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal controls. As a result of weaknesses that may be identified in our internal controls, we may also identify certain deficiencies in some of our disclosure controls and procedures that we believe require remediation. If we discover weaknesses, we will make efforts to improve our internal and disclosure controls. However, there is no assurance that we will be successful. Any failure to maintain effective controls or timely effect any necessary improvement of our internal and disclosure controls could harm operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, which could affect our ability to remain listed with the NYSE. Ineffective internal and disclosure controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which would likely have a negative effect on the per share trading price of our securities.. We could become a party to legal proceedings, which could adversely affect our financial results and/or distract our Board of Trustees and management.. Claims may be filed against us in connection with any action we may or may not take in the ordinary course of business or otherwise, including any equity or debt financing we may undertake, any sales or purchases of assets, past and future changes to our corporate governance and other past or future actions taken by or on behalf of the Company. The results of litigation are difficult to predict and we can provide no assurance that our legal conclusions or positions will be upheld. Moreover, legal claims present a risk of protracted litigation, incurrence of significant attorneys' fees, costs and expenses, and diversion of management's attention from the operation of our business. In addition, we have agreed to indemnify our present and former Trustees and officers who are made or threatened to be made parties to a legal proceeding by reason of their service in that capacity, which may be costly. Adverse rulings in any such legal proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and condition and cause substantial reputational harm and/or a decline in the market price of our shares.. We could incur significant costs and liabilities with respect to environmental matters.. Under various federal, state and local laws and regulations, as the current or former owners or operators of real estate, we may be liable for costs and damages resulting from the presence or release of hazardous substances, including waste or petroleum products, at, on, in, under or from such property, including costs for investigation, removal or remediation of such contamination and for natural resource damages arising from such contamination. Such laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such contamination, and the liability may be joint and several. In addition, the presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination at our properties may expose us to third-party liability for costs of remediation and/or personal or property damage, adversely affect our ability to lease, sell or rent such property, or adversely affect our ability to borrow using such property as collateral. Environmental laws may create liens on contaminated sites in favor of the government for damages and costs it incurs to address such. 9. contamination. If contamination is discovered on our properties, environmental laws also may impose restrictions on the manner in which those properties may be used or businesses may be operated, and these restrictions may require significant expenditures. Additionally, we may remain responsible for costs and liabilities arising from environmental issues related to representations and warranties we make in sales agreements for properties of which we have disposed.  We also may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous substances or waste at disposal or treatment facilities if we arranged for disposal or treatment of hazardous substances at such facilities, whether or not we own or operate such facility.. Some of our properties have been or may be impacted by releases of hazardous substances or petroleum products.  Such contamination may arise from a variety of sources, including historic uses of our properties for commercial or industrial purposes, spills of such materials at adjacent properties, or releases from tanks used on our properties to store petroleum or hazardous substances.  In addition, certain of our properties are on sites upon which or are adjacent to or near other properties upon which others, including former owners or tenants, have engaged, or may in the future engage, in activities that may release petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances.. We, our tenants, and our properties are subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements related to environmental, health and safety matters, such as environmental laws, state and local fire and safety requirements, building codes and land use regulations. Failure to comply with these requirements could subject us or our tenants to governmental fines or private litigant damage awards.  In addition, compliance with these requirements, including new requirements or stricter interpretation of existing requirements, may require us or our tenants to incur significant expenditures.  We do not know whether existing requirements will change or whether future requirements, including any requirements that may emerge from pending or future climate change laws or regulations, will develop.  Environmental noncompliance liability also could impact a tenant's ability to make rental payments to us, and our reputation could be negatively affected if we or our tenant's violate environmental laws or regulations.. Buildings and other structures on properties that we currently or formerly own or operate or those we acquire or operate in the future contain, may contain, or may have contained, asbestos-containing material (or ACM).  Environmental, health and safety laws require that ACM be properly managed and maintained, and include requirements to undertake special precautions, such as removal or abatement, if ACM would be disturbed during maintenance, renovation, or demolition of a building, potentially resulting in substantial costs. Moreover, laws regarding ACM may impose fines and penalties on owners, employers and operators, and we may be subject to liability for releases of ACM into the air and third parties may seek recovery from owners or operators of real property for personal injury associated with ACM.. When excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials, mold growth may occur, particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of time. Some molds may produce airborne toxins or irritants. Indoor air quality issues also can stem from inadequate ventilation, chemical contamination from indoor or outdoor sources, and other biological contaminants such as pollen, viruses and bacteria. Indoor exposure to airborne toxins or irritants above certain levels can be alleged to cause a variety of adverse health effects and symptoms, including allergic or other reactions. The presence of mold or other airborne contaminants in our buildings could expose us to costs and liabilities to address these issues, including from third parties if property damage or personal injury occurs.. We may be adversely affected by laws, regulations or other issues related to climate change.. If we become subject to laws or regulations related to climate change, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be impacted adversely. The federal government has enacted, and some of the states and localities in which we operate may enact certain climate change laws and regulations or have begun regulating carbon footprints and greenhouse gas emissions. Although these laws and regulations have not had any known material adverse effects on our business to date, they could result in substantial costs, including compliance costs, increased energy costs, retrofit costs and construction costs, including monitoring and reporting costs, and capital expenditures for environmental control facilities and other new equipment. Furthermore, our reputation could be negatively affected if we violate climate change laws or regulations. We cannot predict how future laws and regulations, or future interpretations of current laws and regulations, related to climate change will affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Lastly, the potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain, and would be particular to the geographic circumstances in areas in which we operate. These may include changes in rainfall and storm patterns and intensities, water shortages, changing sea levels and changing temperatures. These impacts may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We rely on information technology in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our business.. We rely on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information and to manage or support a variety of our business processes, including financial transactions and maintenance of. 10. records, which may include personal identifying information of tenants and lease data. We rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmitting and storing confidential tenant information, such as individually identifiable information relating to financial accounts. As our reliance on technology has increased, so have the risks posed to our systems, both internal and those we have outsourced to third party service providers. In addition, information security risks have generally increased in recent years due to the rise in new technologies and the increased sophistication and activities of perpetrators of cyber attacks. Although we have taken steps to protect the security of the data maintained in our information systems, it is possible that our security measures will not be able to prevent the systems' improper functioning, or the improper disclosure of personally identifiable information such as in the event of cyber attacks. Security breaches, including physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses, attacks by hackers, including ransom attacks, and similar breaches, can create system disruptions, shutdowns or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. Any failure to maintain proper function, security and availability of our information systems could interrupt our operations, damage our reputation, subject us to liability claims or regulatory penalties and could materially and adversely affect us.. We may co-invest in joint ventures with third parties. Any future joint venture investments could be adversely affected by the capital markets, lack of sole decision-making authority, reliance on joint venture partners' financial condition and any disputes that may arise between us and our joint venture partners.. We may co-invest with third parties through partnerships, joint ventures or other structures in which we acquire noncontrolling interests in, or share responsibility for, managing the affairs of a property, partnership, co-tenancy or other entity. If we enter into any such joint venture or similar ownership structure, we may not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding the properties owned through such joint ventures or similar ownership structure. In addition, investments in joint ventures may, under certain circumstances, involve risks not present when a third party is not involved, including potential deadlocks in making major decisions, restrictions on our ability to exit the joint venture, reliance on joint venture partners and the possibility that a joint venture partner might become bankrupt or fail to fund its share of required capital contributions, thus exposing us to liabilities in excess of our share of the joint venture or jeopardizing our REIT status. The funding of our capital contributions to such joint ventures may be dependent on proceeds from asset sales, credit facility advances or sales of equity securities. Joint venture partners may have business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, and may be in a position to take actions contrary to its policies or objectives. We may, in specific circumstances, be liable for the actions of its joint venture partners. In addition, any disputes that may arise between us and joint venture partners may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase its expenses. Any of the foregoing may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Related to the Real Estate Industry. Real estate ownership creates risks and liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on us, including our results of operations and financial condition.. Our economic performance and the value of our real estate assets, and consequently the value of our securities, are subject to risks inherently associated with real estate ownership, including:. • changes in supply of or demand for properties in areas in which we own buildings;. • the illiquid nature of real estate markets, which limits our ability to sell our assets rapidly or to respond to changing market conditions;. • the subjectivity of real estate valuations and changes in such valuations over time;. • property and casualty losses;. • the ongoing need for property maintenance and repair, and the need to make expenditures due to changes in governmental regulations, including the Americans with Disabilities Act;. • the inability of tenants to pay rent;. • competition from the development of new properties in the markets in which we own property and the quality of such competition, such as the attractiveness of our properties as compared to our competitors' properties based on considerations such as convenience of location, rental rates, amenities and safety record;. • civil unrest, acts of war, acts of God, including earthquakes, hurricanes and other natural disasters (which may result in uninsured losses), and other factors beyond our control;. • legislative, tax and regulatory developments that may occur at the federal, state and local levels that have direct or indirect impact on the ownership, leasing and operation of our properties; and. • litigation incidental to our business.. If any of the foregoing events occur, our properties may not generate revenues sufficient to meet our operating expenses, including debt service and capital expenditures, and our cash flow and ability to pay distributions to our shareholders will be adversely affected.. 11. Potential losses may not be covered by insurance exposing us to potential risk of loss.. We do not carry insurance for generally uninsurable losses such as loss from riots, war or acts of God. Some of our policies, such as those covering losses due to terrorism, hurricanes, earthquakes and floods, are insured subject to limitations involving large deductibles or co-payments and policy limits that may not be sufficient to cover all losses. If we experience a loss that is uninsured or that exceeds policy limits, we could lose the capital invested in the damaged properties as well as the anticipated future cash flows from those properties. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations, and other factors also might make it impractical or undesirable to use insurance proceeds to replace a property after it has been damaged or destroyed. In addition, if the damaged properties are subject to recourse indebtedness, we would continue to be liable for the indebtedness, even if these properties were irreparably damaged.. Insurance coverage on our properties may be expensive or difficult to obtain, exposing us to potential risk of loss.. In the future, we may be unable to renew or duplicate our current insurance coverage at adequate levels or at reasonable prices. In addition, insurance companies may no longer offer coverage against certain types of losses, such as losses due to terrorist acts, environmental liabilities, or other catastrophic events including hurricanes and floods, or, if offered, the expense of obtaining these types of insurance may not be justified. We therefore may cease to have insurance coverage against certain types of losses and/or there may be decreases in the limits of insurance available. If an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of our insured limits occurs, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property after a covered period of time, but still remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. We cannot guarantee that material losses in excess of insurance proceeds will not occur in the future. If any of our properties were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could seriously disrupt our operations, delay revenue and result in large expenses to repair or rebuild the property. Events such as these could adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to meet our obligations.. Actual or threatened terrorist attacks, crimes, shootings, other acts of violence or other incidents beyond our control may adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and the value of our properties.. We have significant investments in large metropolitan markets that have been or may be in the future the targets of actual or threatened terrorism attacks, crimes, shootings, other acts of violence or other incidents beyond our control. As a result, some tenants in these markets may choose to relocate their businesses to other markets or to lower-profile office buildings within these markets that may be perceived to be less likely targets of future incidents. This could result in an overall decrease in the demand for office space in these markets generally or in our properties in particular, which could increase vacancies in our properties or necessitate that we lease our properties on less favorable terms or both. In addition, future terrorist attacks or other acts of violence at our properties could directly or indirectly damage our properties, both physically and financially, or cause losses that materially exceed our insurance coverage. If such an incident was to occur, we may lose tenants or be forced to close a property for some time. In addition, we may be exposed to civil liability, which could adversely affect us. As a result of the foregoing, our ability to generate revenues and the value of our properties could decline materially.. Changes in accounting pronouncements may materially and adversely affect our financial statements, our tenants' credit quality and our ability to secure long-term leases and renewal options.. Accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Uncertainties posed by various initiatives of accounting standard-setting by the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the Securities and Exchange Commission, which create and interpret applicable accounting standards for U.S. companies, may change the financial accounting and reporting standards or their interpretation and application of these standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes could have a material impact on our reported financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in potentially material restatements of prior period financial statements. Similarly, these changes could have a material impact on our tenants' reported financial condition or results of operations or could affect our tenants' preferences regarding leasing real estate.. The Financial Accounting Standards Board issued an accounting standard, effective January 1, 2019 for public business entities, that requires companies to capitalize all leases on their balance sheets by recognizing a lessee's rights and obligations. Many companies that account for certain leases on an \"off balance sheet\" basis will be required to account for such leases \"on balance sheet.\" This change will remove many of the differences in the way companies account for owned property and leased property, and could have a material effect on various aspects of our tenants' businesses, including their credit quality and the factors they consider in deciding whether to own or lease properties. The new standard could cause companies that lease. 12. properties to prefer shorter lease terms, in an effort to reduce the leasing liability required to be recorded on their balance sheets. The new standard could also make lease renewal options less attractive, as, under certain circumstances, the rule would require a tenant to assume that a renewal right will be exercised and accrue a liability relating to the longer lease term.. Risks Related to Our Securities. We cannot assure that we will make distributions to our shareholders, and distributions we may make may include a return of capital.. Any distributions will be made at the discretion of our Board of Trustees and will depend upon various factors that our Board of Trustees deems relevant, including, but not limited to, our results of operations, our financial condition, debt and equity capital available to us, our expectations of our future capital requirements and operating performance, including our funds from operations, or FFO, our normalized funds from operations, or Normalized FFO, and our cash available for distribution, restrictive covenants in our financial or other contractual arrangements (including those in our credit agreement and senior notes indenture), tax law requirements to maintain our status as a REIT, restrictions under Maryland law and our expected needs and availability of cash to pay our obligations or to fund our acquisitions strategy.  As a result of net operating loss carryforwards, a distribution to common shareholders was not required for 2015, 2016 or 2017. Since 2014, we have not made a distribution to common shareholders. We currently hold a significant amount of cash to allow us to pursue acquisitions and we may continue to do so for an undetermined period of time. Additionally, our ability to make distributions will be adversely affected if any of the risks described herein, or other significant adverse events, occur.  For these reasons, among others, we may not make distributions or the amount of distributions we make may be less than investors expect. Also, our distributions may include a return of capital.. Changes in market conditions could adversely affect the market price of our common shares.. As with other publicly traded equity securities, the value of our common shares depends on various market conditions that may change from time-to-time. Among the market conditions that may affect the value of our common shares are the following:. • the extent of investor interest in our securities;. • the general reputation of REITs and the attractiveness of our equity securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate-based companies;. • our underlying asset value;. • national and global economic conditions;. • interest rates;. • changes in tax laws;. • our financial performance;. • changes in our credit ratings; and. • general stock and bond market conditions.. The market value of our common shares is based primarily upon the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash dividends. Consequently, our common shares may trade at prices that are greater or less than our net asset value per common share. If our future earnings or cash dividends are less than expected, it is likely that the market price of our common shares will diminish.. Any notes we may issue will be effectively subordinated to the debts of our subsidiaries and our secured debt.. We conduct substantially all of our business through, and substantially all of our properties are owned by, our subsidiaries. Consequently, our ability to pay debt service on our outstanding notes and any notes we issue in the future will be dependent upon the cash flow of our subsidiaries and payments by those subsidiaries to us as dividends or otherwise. Our subsidiaries are separate legal entities and have their own liabilities. Payments due on our outstanding notes, and any notes we may issue, are, or will be, effectively subordinated to liabilities of our subsidiaries, including guaranty liabilities. As of December 31, 2017, our subsidiaries had $32.6 million of debt (including net unamortized premiums and net unamortized deferred financing costs). Our outstanding notes are, and any notes we may issue will be, effectively subordinated to any secured debt with regard to our assets pledged to secure those debts.. 13. Our notes may permit redemption before maturity, and our noteholders may be unable to reinvest proceeds at the same or a higher rate.. The terms of our notes may permit us to redeem all or a portion of our outstanding notes after a certain amount of time, or up to a certain percentage of the notes prior to certain dates. Generally, the redemption price will equal the principal amount being redeemed, plus accrued interest to the redemption date, plus any applicable premium. If a redemption occurs, our noteholders may be unable to reinvest the money they receive in the redemption at a rate that is equal to or higher than the rate of return on the applicable notes.. There may be no public market for notes we may issue and one may not develop.. Generally, any notes we may issue will be a new issue for which no trading market currently exists. We may not list our notes on any securities exchange or seek approval for price quotations to be made available through any automated quotation system. We cannot assure that an active trading market for any of our notes will exist in the future. Even if a market develops, the liquidity of the trading market for any of our notes and the market price quoted for any such notes may be adversely affected by changes in the overall market for fixed income securities, by changes in our financial performance or prospects, or by changes in the prospects for REITs or for the real estate industry generally.. The number of our common shares available for future issuance or sale could adversely affect the per share trading price of our common shares and may be dilutive to current shareholders.. Our declaration of trust authorizes our Board of Trustees to, among other things, issue additional shares of capital stock without stockholder approval. We cannot predict whether future issuances or sales of our common shares or the availability of shares for resale in the open market will decrease the per share trading price of our common shares. The issuance of substantial numbers of our common shares in the public market, or upon conversion of our Series D preferred shares, or the perception that such issuances might occur, could adversely affect the per share trading price of our common shares. In addition, we may issue our common shares or other long-term equity awards under the Equity Commonwealth 2015 Omnibus Incentive Plan. Any such future issuances may be dilutive to existing shareholders.. Rating agency downgrades or rising interest rates may increase our cost of capital.. Our senior notes and our preferred shares are rated by two rating agencies. These rating agencies may elect to downgrade their ratings on our senior notes and our preferred shares at any time. Such downgrades may negatively affect our access to the capital markets and increase our cost of capital, including the interest rate and fees payable under our credit agreement. In addition, rising interest rates may adversely impact our ability to access the capital markets.. Conversion of our series D preferred shares may dilute the ownership interests of existing shareholders.. The conversion of some or all of our series D preferred shares may dilute the ownership interests of existing shareholders.. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure. Ownership limitations and certain provisions in our declaration of trust and bylaws, as well as certain provisions of Maryland law, may deter, delay or prevent a change in our control or unsolicited acquisition proposals.. Our declaration of trust and bylaws prohibit any shareholder other than certain persons who have been exempted by our Board of Trustees from owning (directly and by attribution) more than 9.8% of the number or value of shares of any class or series of our outstanding shares of beneficial interest, including our common shares. These provisions are intended to assist with our REIT compliance under the Code and otherwise promote our orderly governance. However, these provisions also inhibit acquisitions of a significant stake in us and may deter, delay or prevent a change in our control or unsolicited acquisition proposals that a shareholder may consider favorable.. Additionally, provisions contained in our declaration of trust and bylaws or under Maryland law may have a similar impact, including, for example, provisions relating to: the authority of our Board of Trustees to fill most vacancies on our Board of Trustees; the fact that only the Chairman of the Board of Trustees, our Chief Executive Officer, our President, a majority of our Trustees or the holders of 10% of our common shares may call a special meeting of shareholders; and advance notice requirements for shareholder proposals.. Furthermore, our Board of Trustees has the authority to create and issue new classes or series of shares (including shares with voting rights and other rights and privileges that may deter a change in control) and issue additional common shares. The authorization and issuance of a new class of capital stock or additional common shares could have the effect of delaying or preventing someone from taking control of us, even if a change in control were in our shareholders' best interests.. 14. Certain provisions of Maryland law could inhibit changes in control.. Certain provisions of Maryland law may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or of impeding a change of control under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of our common shares with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of such shares, including:. • \"business combination moratorium/fair price\" provisions that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between us and an \"interested shareholder\" (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our shares or an affiliate thereof) for five years after the most recent date on which the shareholder becomes an interested shareholder, and thereafter imposes stringent fair price and super-majority shareholder voting requirements on these combinations; and. • \"control share\" provisions that provide that \"control shares\" of our company (defined as shares which, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the shareholder, entitle the shareholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing trustees) acquired in a \"control share acquisition\" (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of \"control shares\" from a party other than the issuer) have no voting rights except to the extent approved by our shareholders by the affirmative vote of at least two thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares, and are subject to redemption in certain circumstances.. We have opted out of these provisions of Maryland law. However, our Board of Trustees may opt to make these provisions applicable to us at any time without obtaining shareholder approval.. Certain provisions in the organizational documents of the Operating Trust may delay, defer or prevent unsolicited acquisitions of us or changes in our control.. Provisions in the organizational documents of the Operating Trust may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for the Company's common shares. These provisions include, among others:. • redemption rights of qualifying parties;. • a provision that we may not be removed as the trustee of the Operating Trust with or without cause;. • transfer restrictions on the OP Units held directly or indirectly by us;. • our ability as trustee in some cases to amend the organizational documents of the Operating Partnership without the consent of the other holders of OP Units;. • the right of the holders of OP Units to consent to mergers involving us under specified circumstances; and. • the right of the holders of OP Units to consent to our withdrawal as the sole trustee of the Operating Trust.. These provisions could discourage third parties from making proposals involving an unsolicited acquisition of us or change of our control, although some shareholders might consider such proposals, if made, desirable.. As an UPREIT, we are a holding company with no direct operations and will rely on distributions received from the Operating Trust to make distributions to our shareholders.. We are a holding company and conduct all of our operations through the Operating Trust. We do not have, apart from our ownership of the OP Units, any independent operations. As a result, we will rely on distributions from the Operating Trust to make any distributions to our shareholders we might declare on our common shares and to meet any of our obligations, including tax liability on taxable income allocated to us from the Operating Trust (which might not make distributions to our company equal to the tax on such allocated taxable income). The ability of subsidiaries of the Operating Trust to make distributions to the Operating Trust, and the ability of the Operating Trust to make distributions to us in turn, will depend on their operating results and on the terms of any financing arrangements into which they have entered. Such financing arrangements may contain lockbox arrangements, reserve requirements, covenants and other provisions that prohibit or otherwise restrict the distribution of funds, including upon default thereunder. In addition, because we are a holding company, the claims of our shareholders as common shareholders of our company will be structurally subordinated to all existing and future liabilities and other obligations (whether or not for borrowed money) and any preferred equity of the Operating Trust and its subsidiaries. Therefore, in the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization, our assets and those of the Operating Trust and its subsidiaries will be able to satisfy the claims of our common shareholders only after all of our and the Operating Trust's and its subsidiaries' liabilities and other obligations and any preferred equity have been paid in full.. 15. We may acquire properties or portfolios of properties through tax-deferred contribution transactions, which could result in shareholder dilution and limit our ability to sell such assets.. In the future, we may acquire properties or portfolios of properties through tax-deferred contribution transactions in exchange for OP Units in the Operating Trust, which may result in shareholder dilution. This acquisition structure may have the effect of, among other things, reducing the amount of tax depreciation we could deduct over the tax lives of the acquired properties, and may require that we agree to protect the contributors' abilities to defer recognition of taxable gain through restrictions on our ability to dispose of the acquired properties and/or the allocation of partnership debt to the contributors to maintain their tax bases. These restrictions could limit our ability to sell or finance an asset at a time, or on terms, that would be favorable absent such restrictions.. Future issuances of OP Units would reduce our ownership interest in the Operating Trust and may result in shareholder dilution.. As of December 31, 2017, we beneficially owned 99.97% of the outstanding OP Units. Our Operating Trust may, in connection with our acquisition of additional properties or otherwise, issue OP Units to third parties. Additionally, we have and may in the future issue long-term equity awards convertible into OP Units (LTIP Units) to trustees, officers, or employees. Such issuances of OP Units, or the conversion of LTIP Units into OP Units, would reduce our ownership in the Operating Trust and, consequently, our share of distributions from the Operating Trust. Because OP Units may be redeemed (sometimes subject to vesting or performance achievements) for, at our election, cash or common shares, additional common shares may be issued in respect of any such redeemed OP Units, which would dilute existing shareholders. Our shareholders do not have any voting rights with respect to any such issuances, redemptions or other operational activities of the Operating Trust.. Our recourse against Trustees and officers may be limited by the limited rights granted to our shareholders in our declaration of trust.. Our declaration of trust limits the liability of our Trustees and officers to us and our shareholders for money damages to the maximum extent permitted under Maryland law. Under current Maryland law, our Trustees and officers will not have any liability to us and our shareholders for money damages other than liability resulting from:. • actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or. • active and deliberate dishonesty by the Trustee or officer that was established by a final judgment as being material to the cause of action adjudicated.. Our declaration of trust and bylaws require us to indemnify any present or former Trustee or officer, to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law, who is made or threatened to be made a party to a proceeding by reason of his or her service in that capacity. In addition, we may be obligated to pay or reimburse the expenses incurred by our present and former Trustees and officers without requiring a preliminary determination of their ultimate entitlement to indemnification. As a result, we and our shareholders may have more limited rights against our present and former Trustees and officers than might otherwise exist absent the provisions in our declaration of trust and bylaws or that might exist with other companies, which could limit your recourse in the event of actions not in your best interest.. Conflicts of interest could arise in the future between the interests of the Company's shareholders and the interests of other holders of OP Units, which may impede business decisions that could benefit our shareholders.. Conflicts of interest may exist or could arise in the future as a result of the relationships between the Company and its affiliates, on the one hand, and the Operating Trust or holders of OP Units, on the other. Our trustees and officers have duties to the Company and its shareholders under applicable Maryland law in connection with their management of the Company. At the same time, we, as trustee, have fiduciary duties to the Operating Trust and to the holders of all OP Units under Maryland law in connection with the management of the Operating Trust. The Company's duties as trustee to the Operating Trust and its Unitholders may come into conflict with the duties of our trustees and officers to the Company and our shareholders.. Additionally, the organizational documents of the Operating Trust expressly limit our liability by providing that the Company will not be liable for monetary or other damages or otherwise for losses sustained, liabilities incurred or benefits not derived in connection with such decisions unless the Company acted with willful misfeasance, bad faith, gross negligence or reckless disregard of duty, and the act or omission was material to the matter giving rise to the loss, liability or benefit not derived. Moreover, the organizational documents of the Operating Trust provide that the Operating Trust may indemnify, and pay or reimburse reasonable expenses to, the Company and the Company's and the Operating Trust's present or former unitholders, trustees, officers or agents and any other persons acting on behalf of the Company that the Company may designate from and against all claims and liabilities by reason of his, her or its service in such capacity. The Operating Trust has the power, with the approval of the Company, to provide such indemnification and advancement of expenses. The provisions of. 16. Maryland law that allow the fiduciary duties of a trustee to be modified by such organizational documents have not been resolved in a court of law, and we have not obtained an opinion of counsel covering the provisions set forth in the organizational documents of the Operating Trust that purport to waive or restrict our fiduciary duties that would be in effect were it not for such organizational documents.. Shareholder litigation against us or our Trustees and officers may be referred to binding arbitration proceedings which may increase our risk of default.. Our bylaws provide that actions by our shareholders against us or against our Trustees and officers, including derivative and class actions, may be referred to binding arbitration proceedings. As a result, our shareholders would not be able to pursue litigation for these disputes in courts against us or our Trustees and officers if the disputes were referred to arbitration. In addition, the ability to collect attorneys' fees or other damages may be limited, which may discourage attorneys from agreeing to represent parties wishing to commence such a proceeding.. We may change our operational, financing and investment policies without shareholder approval and we may become more highly leveraged, which may increase our risk of default under our debt obligations.. Our Board of Trustees determines our operational, financing and investment policies and may amend or revise our policies, including our policies with respect to our intention to qualify for taxation as a REIT, acquisitions, dispositions, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and distributions, or approve transactions that deviate from these policies, without a vote of, or notice to, our shareholders. Policy changes could adversely affect the market value of our common shares and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Further, our organizational documents do not limit the amount or percentage of indebtedness, funded or otherwise, that we may incur. Our Board of Trustees may alter or eliminate our current policy on borrowing at any time without shareholder approval. If this policy changed, we could become more highly leveraged, which could result in an increase in our debt service costs. Higher leverage also increases the risk of default on our obligations. In addition, a change in our investment policies, including the manner in which we allocate our resources across our portfolio or the types of assets in which we seek to invest, may increase our exposure to interest rate risk, real estate market fluctuations and liquidity risk.. Risks Related to Our Taxation as a REIT. Qualifying as a REIT involves highly technical and complex provisions of the Code.. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions for which only limited judicial and administrative authorities exist. Even a technical or inadvertent violation could jeopardize our REIT qualification. Our qualification as a REIT depends on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis. We have owned direct or indirect interests in one or more REITs (each, a \"Subsidiary REIT\") that have elected to be taxed as REITs under the U.S. federal income tax laws. Each Subsidiary REIT is subject to the various REIT qualification requirements and other limitations described herein that are applicable to us. If a Subsidiary REIT were to fail to qualify as a REIT, then (i) that Subsidiary REIT would become subject to U.S. federal income tax, (ii) our ownership of shares in such Subsidiary REIT would cease to be a qualifying asset for purposes of the asset tests applicable to REITs, and (iii) it is possible that we would fail certain of the asset tests applicable to REITs, in which event we would fail to qualify as a REIT unless we could avail ourselves of certain relief provisions. While we believe that the Subsidiary REITs have qualified as REITs under the Code, we have joined each Subsidiary REIT in filing a protective taxable REIT subsidiary election under Section 856(l) of the Code for each taxable year in which we have owned an interest in the Subsidiary REIT. Pursuant to the protective taxable REIT subsidiary election, we believe that even if a Subsidiary REIT was not a REIT for some reason, then it would instead have been considered one of our taxable REIT subsidiaries. As one of our taxable REIT subsidiaries, we believe that a Subsidiary REIT's failure to qualify as a REIT would not jeopardize our own qualification as a REIT, even if we owned more than 10% of the Subsidiary REIT.. New legislation, court decisions or administrative guidance, in each case possibly with retroactive effect, may make it more difficult or impossible for us to qualify as a REIT. H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, the tax reform legislation passed on December 22, 2017, makes fundamental changes to the individual and corporate tax laws that may materially impact us and our shareholders. Certain rules applicable to REITs are particularly difficult to interpret or to apply in the case of REITs investing in real estate mortgage loans that are acquired at a discount, subject to work-outs or modifications, or reasonably expected to be in default at the time of acquisition. In addition, our ability to satisfy the requirements to qualify as a REIT depends in part on the actions of third parties over which we have no control or only limited influence, including in cases where we own an equity interest in an entity that is classified as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. 17. If we do not qualify as a REIT or fail to remain qualified as a REIT, we will be subject to U.S. federal income tax and potentially to additional state and local taxes which would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our shareholders.. We believe that we have been organized and have operated, and will continue to be organized and to operate, in a manner to allow us to qualify us to be taxed under the Code as a REIT. However, we cannot be certain that, upon review or audit, the IRS will agree with this conclusion. Furthermore, Congress and the IRS might make changes to the tax laws and regulations, and the courts might issue new rulings, that make it more difficult, or impossible, for us to remain qualified as a REIT.  We do not intend to request a ruling from the IRS as to our REIT qualification.. As a REIT, we generally do not pay U.S. federal income tax on our net income that we distribute currently to our shareholders. However, actual qualification as a REIT under the Code depends on satisfying complex statutory requirements, for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. Many of the REIT requirements, however, are highly technical and complex. The determination that we are a REIT requires an analysis of various factual matters and circumstances that may not be totally within our control.  For example, to qualify as a REIT, at least 95% of our gross income must come from specific passive sources, such as rent, that are itemized in the REIT tax laws. In addition, to qualify as a REIT, we cannot own specified amounts of debt and equity securities of some issuers. We also are required to distribute to our shareholders with respect to each year at least 90% of our \"REIT taxable income\" (determined before the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gains). Even a technical or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize our REIT status and, given the highly complex nature of the rules governing REITs and the ongoing importance of factual determinations, we cannot provide any assurance that we will continue to qualify as a REIT.. If we fail to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and are unable to avail ourselves of certain savings provisions set forth in the Code, we likely would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates. As a taxable corporation, we would not be allowed to take a deduction for distributions to shareholders in computing our taxable income or pass through long term capital gains to individual shareholders at favorable rates.   We also could be subject to the U.S. federal alternative minimum tax (for taxable years beginning before December 31, 2017) and possibly increased state and local taxes. We would not be able to elect to be taxed as a REIT for four years following the year we first failed to qualify unless the IRS were to grant us relief under certain statutory provisions. If we failed to qualify as a REIT, we likely would have to pay significant income taxes, which likely would reduce our net earnings available for investment or distribution to our shareholders.   If we fail to qualify as a REIT, such failure would cause us to be in breach under our credit agreement, and may adversely affect our ability to raise capital and to service our debt.  This likely would have a significant adverse effect on our earnings and the value of our securities. In addition, we would no longer be required to pay any distributions to shareholders. If we fail to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes and are able to avail ourselves of one or more of the statutory savings provisions in order to maintain our REIT status, we would nevertheless be required to pay penalty taxes of $50,000 or more for each such failure.. Distributions to shareholders generally do not qualify for the preferential tax rates available for some dividends.. Dividends payable by U.S. corporations to noncorporate shareholders, such as individuals, trusts and estates, are generally eligible for reduced tax rates. In 2018, under H.R. 1, distributions paid by REITs to noncorporate shareholders generally are eligible for rates that are 20% lower than ordinary income tax rates, but those rates are higher than the 20% tax rate on qualified dividend income paid by \"C\" corporations. Although this does not adversely affect the taxation of REITs or dividends payable by REITs, to the extent that the preferential rates continue to apply to regular corporate qualified dividends, the more favorable rates for corporate dividends may cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive that an investment in a REIT is less attractive than an investment in a non-REIT entity that pays dividends, thereby reducing the demand and market price of our shares.. REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan.. We generally must distribute annually at least 90% of our \"REIT taxable income\" (determined before the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gains) in order for U.S federal corporate income tax not to apply to earnings that we distribute. To the extent that we satisfy this distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. We intend to make distributions to our shareholders to comply with the REIT requirements of the Code. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we pay out to our shareholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under U.S. federal tax laws.  We intend to make distributions to our shareholders to comply with the REIT requirements of the Code.. From time to time, we may generate taxable income greater than our income for financial reporting purposes prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, or differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash may occur. Further, under amendments to the Code made by H.R. 1, income must. 18. be accrued for U.S. federal income tax purposes no later than when such income is taken into account as revenue in our financial statements, subject to certain exceptions, which could also create mismatches between REIT taxable income and the receipt of cash attributable to such income. If we do not have other funds available in these situations we could be required to (i) borrow funds on unfavorable terms, (ii) sell investments at disadvantageous prices, (iii) distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions, or (iv) make a taxable distribution of our common shares as part of a distribution in which shareholders may elect to receive our common shares or (subject to a limit measured as a percentage of the total distribution) cash to make distributions sufficient to enable us to pay out enough of our taxable income to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement. These alternatives could increase our costs or reduce our shareholders' equity. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to grow, which could adversely affect the value of our shares.. Even if we qualify and remain qualified as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow.. Even if we qualify and remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain U.S. federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, excise taxes, state or local income, property and transfer taxes, such as mortgage recording taxes, and other taxes.  We are subject to U.S. federal and state income tax (and any applicable non-U.S. taxes) on the net income earned by our taxable REIT subsidiaries.  Moreover, if we have net income from \"prohibited transactions,\" that income will be subject to a 100% tax.  Finally, some state and local jurisdictions may tax some of our income even though as a REIT we are not subject to U.S. federal income tax on that income because not all states and localities treat REITs the same way they are treated for federal U.S. income tax purposes.  To the extent that we and our affiliates are required to pay federal, state and local taxes, we will have less cash available for distributions to our shareholders.. Complying with REIT requirements may force us to forgo and/or liquidate otherwise attractive investment opportunities.. To qualify as a REIT, we must ensure that we meet the REIT gross income tests annually and that at the end of each calendar quarter, at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and qualified REIT real estate assets. The remainder of our investment in securities (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. In addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our assets (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) can consist of the securities of any one issuer, no more than 25% (20% for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017) of the value of our total securities can be represented by securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries (TRS) and, effective for our taxable year that began on January 1, 2016 and all future taxable years, no more than 25% of the value of our assets can be represented by debt instruments issued by \"publicly offered REITs.\"  If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct the failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter or qualify for certain statutory relief provisions to avoid losing our REIT qualification and suffering adverse tax consequences. As a result, we may be required to liquidate from our portfolio, or contribute to a TRS, otherwise attractive investments in order to maintain our qualification as a REIT. These actions could have the effect of reducing our income, increasing our income tax liability, and reducing amounts available for distribution to our stockholders. In addition, we may be required to make distributions to shareholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution, and may be unable to pursue investments (or, in some cases, forego the sale of such investments) that would be otherwise advantageous to us in order to satisfy the source-of-income or asset-diversification requirements for qualifying as a REIT. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to make, and, in certain cases, maintain ownership of certain attractive investments.. The tax on \"prohibited transactions\" may limit our ability to engage in transactions which would be treated as sales for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. A REIT's net income from prohibited transactions is subject to a 100% tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property, other than foreclosure property, held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. Our Trustees have adopted a strategy to own and acquire at a discount to replacement cost high-quality, multi-tenant office assets in markets and sub-markets with favorable long-term supply and demand fundamentals.  Our efforts will primarily be focused on larger office buildings in central business districts and major urban areas that offer an attractive quality of life, including opportunities for tenants to live and play in close proximity to where they work, with a preference for markets that have above average limitations on new supply.  We believe that the dispositions related to the repositioning of our portfolio along with other dispositions that we have made or that we might make in the future will not be subject to the 100% penalty tax; however, because application of the prohibited transactions tax could be based on an analysis of all of the facts and circumstances, there can be no assurance that the gains on our prior real estate sales have not, or any future real estate sales will not, be subject to the 100% prohibited transaction tax.. 19. Our ownership of TRSs has been and will continue to be limited and our transactions with our TRSs will cause us to be subject to a 100% penalty tax on certain income or deductions if those transactions are not conducted on arm's length terms.. A REIT may own up to 100% of the stock of one or more TRSs. A TRS may hold assets and earn income that would not be qualifying assets or income if held or earned directly by a REIT. Both the subsidiary and the REIT must jointly elect to treat the subsidiary as a TRS. A corporation of which a TRS directly or indirectly owns more than 35% of the voting power or value of the stock will automatically be treated as a TRS. Overall, no more than 25% (20% for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017) of the value of a REIT's assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more TRSs. In addition, the TRS rules limit the deductibility of interest paid or accrued by a TRS to its parent REIT to assure that the TRS is subject to an appropriate level of corporate taxation. The rules also impose a 100% excise tax on certain transactions between a TRS and its parent REIT that are not conducted on an arm's length basis.. TRSs that we have formed are subject to and will continue to be subject to U.S. federal, state and local income tax on their taxable income, and their after-tax net income is available for distribution to us but is not required to be distributed by such TRSs to us. We believe that the aggregate value of the stock and securities of our TRSs has been and we anticipate that the aggregate value will continue to be less than 25% (20% for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017) of the value of our total assets (including our TRS stock and securities). Furthermore, we have monitored and will continue to monitor the value of our respective investments in our TRSs for the purpose of ensuring compliance with TRS ownership limitations. In addition, we have scrutinized and will continue to scrutinize all of our transactions with TRSs to ensure that they are entered into on arm's length terms to avoid incurring the 100% excise tax described above. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to comply with the TRS limitation discussed above or to avoid application of the 100% excise tax discussed above.. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively and may cause us to incur tax liabilities.. The REIT provisions of the Code limit our ability to hedge our liabilities. Generally, income from a hedging transaction we enter into to manage risk of interest rate fluctuations with respect to borrowings, including gain from the disposition of such hedging transactions, to the extent the hedging transactions hedge indebtedness incurred, or to be incurred, by us to acquire or carry real estate assets does not constitute \"gross income\" for purposes of the 75% or 95% gross income tests, provided we properly identify the hedge pursuant to the applicable sections of the Code and Treasury regulations. To the extent that we enter into other types of hedging transactions, the income from those transactions is likely to be treated as non-qualifying income for purposes of both gross income tests. As a result of these rules, we may need to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through a taxable REIT subsidiary. This could increase the cost of our hedging activities because our taxable REIT subsidiary would be subject to tax on income or gains resulting from hedges entered into by it or expose us to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to bear. In addition, losses in our taxable REIT subsidiary will generally not provide any tax benefit, except for being carried forward for use against future taxable income in our taxable REIT subsidiary, provided, however, losses in our taxable REIT subsidiary arising in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 may only be deducted against 80% of future taxable income in the taxable REIT subsidiary.. There is a risk of changes in the tax law applicable to REITs.. The IRS, the United States Treasury Department and Congress frequently review U.S. federal income tax legislation, regulations and other guidance. We cannot predict whether, when or to what extent new federal tax laws, regulations, interpretations or rulings will be adopted. Any legislative action may prospectively or retroactively modify our tax treatment and, therefore, may adversely affect taxation of us and/or our shareholders.  In particular, H.R. 1, which generally takes effect for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2018 (subject to certain exceptions), makes many significant changes to the U.S. federal income tax laws that may profoundly impact the taxation of individuals and corporations (both regular C corporations as well as corporations that have elected to be taxed as REITs). A number of changes that affect noncorporate taxpayers will expire at the end of 2025 unless Congress acts to extend them. These changes will impact us and our shareholders in various ways, some of which may be adverse or potentially adverse compared to prior law. To date, the IRS has issued only limited guidance with respect to certain of the new provisions, and there are numerous interpretive issues that will require guidance. It is likely that technical corrections legislation will be needed to clarify certain aspects of the new law and give proper effect to Congressional intent. There can be no assurance, however, that technical clarifications or changes needed to prevent unintended or unforeseen tax consequences will be enacted by Congress in the near future.. 20"
