[1] "ITEM 1A — RISK FACTORS. Operating results may be impacted by changes in the economy that influence business and consumer spending.. Operating results are directly impacted by the health of the North American and to a lesser extent, European and Asian economies. We cannot predict how robust the economy will be or whether or not it will be sustained. If the economic recovery slows, or if the economy experiences a prolonged period of decelerating or negative growth, the Company’s results of operations may be negatively impacted. In general, the Company’s sales depend on discretionary spending by consumers. Business and financial performance may be adversely affected by current and future economic conditions, including unemployment levels, energy costs, interest rates, recession, inflation, the impact of natural disasters and terrorist activities, and other matters that influence business and consumer spending.. Fluctuation in economic conditions could prevent the Company from accurately forecasting demand for its products which could adversely affect its operating results or market share.. Fluctuation in economic conditions and market instability in the United States and globally makes it difficult for the Company, customers and suppliers to accurately forecast future product demand trends, which could cause the Company to produce excess products that can increase inventory carrying costs and result in obsolete inventory. Alternatively, this forecasting difficulty could cause a shortage of products, or materials used in products, that could result in an inability to satisfy demand for products and a loss of market share.. Markets are highly competitive which could limit the Company’s growth and reduce profitability.. The market for sporting goods is highly fragmented and intensely competitive. A majority of the Company’s products are in markets that are experiencing low growth rates. Escalade competes with a variety of regional, national and international manufacturers for customers, employees, products, services and other important aspects of the business. The Company has historically sold a large percentage of its sporting goods products to mass merchandisers and has increasingly attempted to expand sales to specialty retailer and dealer markets and to on-line retailers. In addition to competition for sales into those distribution channels, vendors also must compete in sporting goods with large format sporting goods stores, traditional sporting goods stores and chains, warehouse clubs, discount stores and department stores. Competition from on-line retailers may also impact sales. Some of the current and potential competitors are larger than Escalade and have substantially greater financial resources that may be devoted to sourcing, promoting and selling their products, and may discount prices more heavily than the Company can afford.. 5. If the Company is unable to predict or effectively react to changes in consumer demand, it may lose customers and sales may decline.. Success depends in part on the ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to changing consumer demand and preferences regarding sporting goods. Products must appeal to a broad range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to change. The Company often makes commitments to manufacture products months in advance of the proposed delivery to customers. If Escalade misjudges the market for products, sales may decline significantly. The Company may have to take significant inventory markdowns on unpopular products that are overproduced and/or miss opportunities for other products that may rise in popularity, both of which could have a negative impact on profitability. A major shift in consumer demand away from sporting goods products could also have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition.. The Company derives a substantial portion of its revenue from a few significant customers and loss of any of these customers could materially affect our results of operations and financial condition.. The Company has two major customers, each of which accounted for more than ten percent of consolidated gross sales and more than ten percent of total accounts receivable. The Company also has several other large customers, none of which represent more than ten percent of consolidated gross sales, and historically has derived substantial revenues from these customers. Our customers continue to experience industry consolidation, which increases our risk that we may be unable to find sufficient alternative customers. The Company needs to continue to expand its customer base to minimize the effects of the loss of any single customer in the future. If sales to one or more of the large customers would be lost or materially reduced, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to replace such revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition.. The Company’s customers may experience financial difficulties that could result in losses to the Company.. From time to time, one or more of the Company’s customers have experienced, are experiencing, or may in the future experience financial difficulties that impair their ability to pay all amounts owed to the Company. In such instances, the customer may file bankruptcy or take other actions to restructure the amounts owed to secured and unsecured creditors, including unsecured trade creditors such as the Company. When this occurs, the Company may not be able to collect the full amount owed to it by the customer, and in severe situations may have to write off all or a substantial portion of those customer receivables. Any significant resulting losses incurred by the Company relating to these or other customers could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operation, and financial condition.. Quarterly operating results are subject to fluctuation.. Operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter in the past, and the Company expects that they will continue to do so in the future. Factors that could cause these quarterly fluctuations include the following: international, national and local general economic and market conditions; the size and growth of the overall sporting goods markets; intense competition among manufacturers, marketers, distributors and sellers of products; demographic changes; changes in consumer preferences; popularity of particular designs, categories of products and sports; seasonal demand for products; the size, timing and mix of purchases of products; fluctuations and difficulty in forecasting operating results; ability to sustain, manage or forecast growth and inventories; new product development and introduction; ability to secure and protect trademarks, patents and other intellectual property; performance and reliability of products; customer service; the loss of significant customers or suppliers; dependence on distributors; business disruptions; increased costs of freight and transportation to meet delivery deadlines; changes in business strategy or development plans; general risks associated with doing business outside the United States, including, without limitation: exchange rates, import duties, tariffs, quotas and political and economic instability; changes in government regulations; any liability and other claims asserted against the Company; ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; and other factors referenced or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K and any other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.. 6. The Company may pursue strategic acquisitions, divestitures, or investments and the failure of a strategic transaction to produce anticipated results or the inability to fully integrate an acquired company could have an adverse impact on the Company’s business.. The Company has made acquisitions of complementary companies or businesses, which have been part of the strategic plan, and may continue to pursue acquisitions in the future from time to time. Acquisitions may result in difficulties in assimilating acquired companies, and may result in the diversion of capital and management’s attention from other business issues and opportunities. The Company may not be able to successfully integrate operations that it acquires, including personnel, financial systems, distribution, and operating procedures. If the Company fails to successfully integrate acquisitions, the Company’s business could suffer. In addition, acquisitions may result in the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, amortization expense or write-offs of goodwill or other intangibles, any of which could affect the Company’s financial position. The Company also has sometimes divested or discontinued certain operations, assets, and products that did not perform to the Company’s expectations or no longer fit with the Company’s strategic objectives. Divestitures may result in gains, losses, contingent liabilities, write-offs, tax consequences, or other related costs and expenses that could affect the Company’s financial position. Escalade will consider acquisitions, divestitures, and investments in the future, one or more of which, individually or in the aggregate, could be material to the Company’s overall business, operations or financial position.. Growth may strain resources, which could adversely affect the Company’s business and financial performance.. The Company has grown in the past through strategic acquisitions, and continues to make acquisitions in its Sporting Goods business. Our growth strategy also depends on our ability to grow our e-commerce business. Growth places additional demands on management and operational systems. If the Company is not successful in continuing to support operational and financial systems, expanding the management team and increasing and effectively managing customers and suppliers, growth may result in operational inefficiencies and ineffective management of the Company’s business, which could adversely affect its business and financial performance.. The Company’s ability to operate and expand business and to respond to changing business and economic conditions will be dependent upon the availability of adequate capital.. The rate of expansion will also depend on the availability of adequate capital, which in turn will depend in large part on cash flow generated by the business and the availability of equity and debt capital. The Company can make no assurances that it will be able to obtain equity or debt capital on acceptable terms or at all. Our current senior secured revolving credit facility contains provisions that limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness or make substantial asset sales, which might otherwise be used to finance our operations. In the event of our insolvency, liquidation, dissolution or reorganization, the lenders under our senior secured revolving credit facility would be entitled to payment in full from our assets before distributions, if any, to our stockholders.. 7. The Company could suffer if it fails to attract and retain skilled management and key personnel.. The Company’s success depends in large part on its ability to attract and retain highly qualified management executives and key personnel. Significant competition for qualified candidates exists in the Company’s business lines and geographic locations. If the Company is not able to hire and retain its executives and key personnel, or if the compensation costs required to attract and retain such individuals becomes more expensive, the Company may suffer adverse consequences to its business, operations, and financial condition.. The Company’s business may be adversely affected by the actions of and risks associated with third-party suppliers.. The raw materials that the Company purchases for manufacturing operations and many of the products that it sells are sourced from a wide variety of third-party suppliers. The Company cannot control the supply, design, function or cost of many of the products that are offered for sale and are dependent on the availability and pricing of key materials and products. Disruptions in the availability of raw materials used in production of these products may adversely affect sales and result in customer dissatisfaction. In addition, global sourcing of many of the products sold is an important factor in the Company’s financial performance. The ability to find qualified suppliers and to access products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with respect to goods sourced outside the United States. Political instability, financial instability of suppliers, merchandise quality issues, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, transport capacity and costs, inflation and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond the Company’s control.. Historically, instability in the political and economic environments of the countries in which the Company or its suppliers obtain products and raw materials has not had a material adverse effect on operations. However, the Company cannot predict the effect that future changes in economic or political conditions in the United States and in such foreign countries may have on operations. In the event of disruptions or delays in supply due to economic or political conditions, such disruptions or delays could adversely affect results of operations unless and until alternative supply arrangements could be made. In addition, products and materials purchased from alternative sources may be of lesser quality or more expensive than the products and materials currently purchased abroad.. Deterioration in relationships with suppliers or in the financial condition of suppliers could adversely affect liquidity, results of operations and financial position.. Access to materials, parts and supplies is dependent upon close relationships with suppliers and the ability to purchase products from the principal suppliers on competitive terms. The Company does not enter into long-term supply contracts with these suppliers, and has no current plans to do so in the future. These suppliers are not required to sell to the Company and are free to change the prices and other terms. Any deterioration or change in the relationships with or in the financial condition of the Company’s significant suppliers could have an adverse impact on its ability to procure materials and parts necessary to produce products for sale and distribution. If any of the significant suppliers terminated or significantly curtailed its relationship with the Company or ceased operations, the Company would be forced to expand relationships with other suppliers, seek out new relationships with new suppliers or risk a loss in market share due to diminished product offerings and availability. Any change in one or more of these suppliers’ willingness or ability to continue to supply the Company with their products could have an adverse impact on the Company’s liquidity, results of operations and financial position.. Disruptions to our supply chain could have an adverse impact on our operations.. Many of the Company’s products are manufactured outside the United States. Those products must be transported by third parties over large geographic distances. Delays in the shipment or delivery of our products could occur due to work stoppages, port strikes, lack of availability of transportation, and other factors beyond the Company’s control. Such delays could impair our ability to timely and efficiently deliver our products, and could adversely impact our operating results.. 8. The Company may be subject to product warranty claims that require the replacement or repair of the product sold. Such warranty claims could adversely affect the Company’s financial position and relationships with its customers.. The Company manufactures and/or distributes a variety of products. From time to time, such products may contain manufacturing defects or design flaws that are not detected prior to sale, particularly as to new product introductions or upon design changes to existing products. The failure to identify and correct manufacturing defects and product design issues prior to the sale of those products could result in product warranty claims that result in costs to replace or repair any such defective products. Because many of the Company’s products are sold to retailers for broad consumer distribution and/or to customers who buy in large quantities, the costs associated with product warranty claims could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial position. Product warranty claims also could cause customer dissatisfaction that may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s reputation and on the Company’s relationships with its customers, which may result in lost or reduced sales.. The Company may be subject to various types of litigation and the Company’s insurance may not be sufficient to cover damages related to those claims.. From time to time the Company or its subsidiaries may be involved in lawsuits or other claims arising in the course of business, including those related to product liability, consumer protection, employment, intellectual property, torts and other matters. In addition, it may be subject to lawsuits relating to the design, manufacture or distribution of its products. The Company may be subject to lawsuits resulting from injuries associated with the use of sporting goods equipment that it sells and information security and print finishing products that it sold prior to divesting that business. The Company may incur losses relating to these claims or the defense of these claims. There is a risk that claims or liabilities will exceed the Company’s insurance coverage. In addition, the Company may be unable to retain adequate liability insurance in the future. Further, the Company is subject to regulation by the Consumer Product Safety Commission and similar state regulatory agencies. If the Company fails to comply with government and industry safety standards, it may be subject to claims, lawsuits, fines, product recalls and adverse publicity that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition.. Intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of products.. The Company obtains patents, trademarks and copyrights for intellectual property, which represent important assets to the Company. If the Company fails to adequately protect intellectual property through patents, trademarks and copyrights, its intellectual property rights may be misappropriated by others, invalidated or challenged, and our competitors could duplicate the Company’s products or may otherwise limit any competitive design or manufacturing advantages. The Company believes that success is likely to depend upon continued innovation, technical expertise, marketing skills and customer support and services rather than on legal protection of intellectual property rights. However, the Company intends to aggressively assert its intellectual property rights when necessary.. The expiration or termination of our material trademarks, brand names and licensing agreements could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business.. The Company has invested substantial resources in developing and marketing the Company’s brands and products over many years. The expiration or termination of one or more of the Company’s material trademarks, patents or licensing agreements could result in the loss of such intellectual property. In such event, the Company may not be able to recoup its investments in, and continue to benefit from the affected brand names or products. The loss of such intellectual property and related rights could have a material adverse effect on the Company.. 9. The Company is subject to risks associated with laws and regulations related to health, safety and environmental protection.. Products, and the production and distribution of products, are subject to a variety of laws and regulations relating to health, safety and environmental protection. Laws and regulations relating to health, safety and environmental protection have been passed in several jurisdictions in which the Company operates in the United States and abroad. Although the Company does not anticipate any material adverse effects based on the nature of operations and the thrust of such laws, there is no assurance such existing laws or future laws will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition.. International operations expose the Company to the unique risks inherent in foreign operations.. The Company has operations in Mexico. Foreign operations encounter risks similar to those faced by U.S. operations, as well as risks inherent in foreign operations, such as local customs and regulatory constraints, control over product quality and content, foreign trade policies, competitive conditions, foreign currency fluctuations and unstable political and economic conditions. The Company’s business relationships in Asia and joint venture in Sweden further increase its exposure to these foreign operating risks, which could have an adverse impact on the Company’s income and profitability.. The Company could be adversely affected by changes in currency exchange rates and/or the value of the United States dollar.. The Company is exposed to risks related to the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and the value of the United States dollar. Changes in currency exchange rates and the value of the United States dollar can have a significant impact on earnings. While the Company carefully watches fluctuations in currency exchange rates, these types of changes can have material adverse effects on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition.. Failure to improve and maintain the quality of internal controls over financial reporting could materially and adversely affect the ability to provide timely and accurate financial information, which could harm the Company’s reputation and share price.. Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal controls over financial reporting for the Company to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Management cannot be certain that weaknesses and deficiencies in internal controls will not arise or be identified or that the Company will be able to correct and maintain adequate controls over financial processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to maintain adequate controls or to adequately implement required new or improved controls could harm operating results or cause failure to meet reporting obligations in a timely and accurate manner. Ineffective internal controls over financial reporting could also cause investors to lose confidence in reported financial information, which could adversely affect the trading price of the Company’s common stock.. Disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives. However, management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that disclosure controls and procedures will prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, have been detected.. 10. Problems with the Company’s information system software or hardware could disrupt operations and negatively impact financial results and materially adversely affect the Company’s business operations.. The Company relies on a suite of applications and third party software to receive and process customer orders and for the core of its manufacturing, distribution, and accounting systems. These systems, if not functioning properly, could disrupt its operations, including the Company’s ability to receive and ship orders and to process financial information or engage in similar normal business activities. Any material disruption, malfunction, cyber-attack or other similar problems in or with these systems could negatively impact our financial results and materially adversely affect our business operations.. Breaches of data or technology security could damage the Company’s reputation, cause the Company to incur additional expense, expose the Company to litigation, and adversely affect the Company’s business.. A breach of our data or technology security could result in an unauthorized transfer or release of Company proprietary, employee, customer and other Company related information, or the loss of valuable business data or technology, that could cause a disruption in our business. Hackers are increasingly sophisticated and operate large scale and complex cyber security attacks. In the event of such an attack, we may expend significant capital and other resources to protect against, respond to, and/or alleviate problems caused by a breach. Such an event could also result in unwanted negative media attention, damage to the Company’s reputation, damage to our customers, and result in lost sales and lawsuits. The Company also must comply with increasingly complex regulatory cyber security and privacy standards, which can be costly and negatively impact the Company’s profitability.. The preparation of the Company’s financial statements requires the use of estimates that may vary from actual results.. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make significant estimates that may affect financial statements. Due to the inherent nature of making estimates, actual results may vary substantially from such estimates, which could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. For more information on the Company’s critical accounting estimates, please see the Critical Accounting Estimates section of this Form 10-K.. Changes in accounting standards could impact reported earnings and financial condition.. The accounting standard setters, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the Securities and Exchange Commission, periodically change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of the Company’s consolidated financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and apply and can materially affect how the Company records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, the Company could be required to apply a new or revised standard retrospectively, which may result in the restatement of prior period financial statements.. 11. The potential effects of the 2017 U.S. tax reform legislation, as well as possible future tax law changes, on the Company are uncertain and could adversely impact the Company’s business operations or otherwise adversely affect the Company.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the “2017 U.S. Tax Reforms”) was signed into law. The 2017 U.S. Tax Reforms significantly change the U.S. federal income taxation of U.S. businesses and their owners. Many of the changes included in the 2017 U.S. Tax Reforms are effective immediately, without transition periods or grandfathering provisions. The details of the 2017 U.S. Tax Reforms may be unclear in various respects and could be subject to amendments, technical corrections, IRS interpretations, implementing rules and regulations, and litigation, any of which could increase or lessen the impact of such tax law changes. While some of the changes made in the 2017 U.S. Tax Reforms appear to benefit the Company in 2017 and future years, other changes may be adverse on a going forward basis. The Company intends to work with its tax and other advisors to determine the full impact that the U.S. 2017 Tax Reforms may have on the Company and to utilize the potential benefits that may be applicable to the Company, but there can be no assurances that the Company will be successful in doing so or that potential negative consequences might not outweigh the benefits.. The Company’s effective tax rate may fluctuate.. The Company is a multi-channel provider of sporting goods. As a result, the Company’s effective tax rate is derived from a combination of applicable tax rates in the various countries, states and other jurisdictions in which the Company operates. In addition to the effects of the 2017 U.S. Tax Reforms, the effective tax rate may be lower or higher than its tax rates have been in the past due to numerous factors, including the sources of income, any agreement with taxing authorities in various jurisdictions, the tax filing positions taken in various jurisdictions and changes in the political environment in the jurisdictions in which the Company operates. The Company bases estimates of an effective tax rate at any given point in time upon a calculated mix of the tax rates applicable to the Company and to estimates of the amount of business likely to be done in any given jurisdiction. The loss of one or more agreements with taxing jurisdictions, a change in the mix of business from year to year and from country to country, changes in rules related to accounting for income taxes, changes in tax laws and any of the multiple jurisdictions in which the Company operates, or adverse outcomes from tax audits that the Company may be subject to in any of the jurisdictions in which the Company operates, could result in an unfavorable change in the effective tax rate which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations.. The market price of the Company’s common stock is likely to be highly volatile as the stock market in general can be highly volatile.. The public trading of the Company’s common stock is based on many factors which could cause fluctuation in the Company’s stock price. These factors may include, among other things:. ·General economic and market conditions;. ·Actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results;. ·Limited research coverage by securities analysts;. ·Relatively low market capitalization resulting in low trading volume in the Company’s stock;. ·If securities analysts provide coverage, our inability to meet or exceed securities analysts' estimates or expectations;. ·Conditions or trends in the Company’s industries;. ·Changes in the market valuations of other companies in the Company’s industries;. ·Announcements by the Company or the Company’s competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, divestitures, joint ventures or other strategic initiatives;. ·Capital commitments;. ·Additions or departures of key personnel;. ·Sales and repurchases of the Company’s common stock; and. ·The ability to maintain listing of the Company’s common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market.. 12. Many of these factors are beyond the Company’s control. These factors may cause the market price of the Company’s common stock to decline, regardless of operating performance.. If we are unable to pay quarterly dividends at intended levels, our reputation and stock price may be harmed.. Our quarterly cash dividend is currently $0.115 per common share. The dividend program requires the use of a portion of our cash flow. Our ability to pay dividends will depend on our ability to generate sufficient cash flows from operations in the future. This ability may be subject to certain economic, financial, competitive and other factors that are beyond our control. Our Board of Directors (Board) may, at its discretion, increase or decrease the intended level of dividends or entirely discontinue the payment of dividends at any time. Any failure to pay dividends after we have announced our intention to do so may negatively impact our reputation, investor confidence in us and negatively impact our stock price.. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential customer information could harm the Company’s business and its standing with its customers.. Through sales and marketing activities, the Company collects and stores certain information that customers provide to purchase products or services or otherwise communicate and interact with the Company. Despite instituted safeguards for the protection of such information, the Company cannot be certain that all of its systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack. Computer hackers may attempt to penetrate the Company’s network security and, if successful, misappropriate confidential customer or business information. In addition, an employee, a contractor or other third party with whom the Company does business may attempt to circumvent the Company’s security measures in order to obtain such information or inadvertently cause a breach involving such information. Loss of customer or business information could disrupt operations, damage the Company’s reputation, and expose the Company to claims from customers, financial institutions, payment card associations and other persons, any of which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, compliance with tougher privacy and information security laws and standards may result in significant expense due to increased investment in technology and the development of new operational processes.. Terrorist attacks, acts of war or natural disaster may seriously harm the Company’s business.. Among the chief uncertainties facing the nation and the world and, as a result, our business, is the instability and conflict in the Middle East and uncertainties regarding North Korea, Russia, China and other Asian and European countries. Obviously, no one can predict with certainty what the overall economic impact will be as a result of these circumstances. Terrorist attacks may cause damage or disruption to the Company, employees, facilities and customers, which could significantly impact net sales, costs and expenses and financial condition. The potential for future terrorist attacks, the national and international responses to terrorist attacks, and other acts of war and hostility may cause greater uncertainty and cause business to suffer in ways the Company currently cannot predict.. In addition, any natural disaster or other serious disruption to one of the Company’s manufacturing or distribution sights due to fire, tornado, earthquake or any other causes could damage a material portion of inventory or impair our ability to provide product to our customers and could negatively affect our sales and profitability.. 13. New laws, policies, regulations, rulemaking and oversight, as well as changes to those currently in effect, could adversely impact our earnings, cash flows and operations.. Our assets and operations are subject to regulation and oversight by federal, state, and local regulatory authorities. Legislative changes, as well as regulatory actions taken by these agencies, have the potential to adversely affect our profitability. In addition, a certain degree of regulatory uncertainty is created by the U.S. political climate. It remains unclear specifically what the current presidential administration and Congress may do with respect to future policies and regulations that may affect us. Regulation affects many aspects of our business and extends to such matters as (i) federal, state, and local taxation; (ii) rates (which include tax, commodity, surcharges and fuel); (iii) the integrity, safety and security of facilities and operations; (iv) the acquisition of other businesses; (v) the acquisition, extension, disposition or abandonment of services or facilities; (vi) reporting and information requirements; and (vii) the maintenance of accounts and records.. Failure to sustain a continuing economic recovery in the United States and elsewhere could have a substantial adverse effect on our business.. Our business is tied to general economic and industry conditions as demand for sporting goods depends largely on the strength of the economy, employment levels, consumer confidence levels and the availability and cost of credit. These factors have had and could continue to have a substantial impact on our business.. Certain political developments in recent years have provided increased economic uncertainty. The United Kingdom's decision to exit the European Union and political conflicts in the U.S. both could result in economic and trade policy actions that would impact economic conditions in various countries, the cost of importing into the U.S. and the competitive landscape of our customers, suppliers and competitors.. Adverse global economic conditions could also cause our customers and suppliers to experience severe economic constraints in the future, including bankruptcy, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations.. Our business is subject to risks associated with sourcing and manufacturing overseas.. We import both raw materials and finished goods into our operating facilities. Our ability to import products in a timely and cost-effective manner may be affected by conditions at ports or issues that otherwise affect transportation and warehousing providers, such as port and shipping capacity, labor disputes and work stoppages, political unrest, severe weather, or security requirements in the United States and other countries. These issues could delay importation of products or require us to locate alternative ports or warehousing providers to avoid disruption to our customers. These alternatives may not be available on short notice or could result in higher transportation costs, which could have an adverse impact on our business and financial condition, specifically our gross margin and overall profitability.. Substantially all of our import operations are subject to customs and tax requirements as well as trade regulations, such as tariffs and quotas set by governments through mutual agreements or bilateral actions. In addition, the countries in which our products are manufactured or imported may from time to time impose additional quotas, duties, tariffs or other restrictions on our imports or adversely modify existing restrictions. Adverse changes in these import costs and restrictions, or our suppliers' failure to comply with customs regulations or similar laws, could harm our business. In this regard, possible changes in U.S. policies and the potential effects of Brexit have introduced greater uncertainty with respect to future tax and trade regulations. Changes in tax policy or trade regulations, such as the disallowance of tax deductions on imported merchandise or the imposition of new tariffs on imported products, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. 14. Our operations are also subject to the effects of international trade agreements and regulations that impose requirements that could adversely affect our business, such as setting quotas on products that may be imported from a particular country.. These risks are not exhaustive.. Other sections of this Form 10-K may include additional factors which could adversely impact the Company’s business and financial performance. Moreover, the Company operates in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all risk factors, nor can the Company assess the impact of all factors on business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results."
