[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. Except for the historical information contained herein or incorporated by reference, this report and the information incorporated by reference contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. These statements include projections about our accounting and finances, plans and objectives for the future, future operating and economic performance and other statements regarding future performance. These statements are not guarantees of future performance or events. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in this report. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the following section, as well as those discussed in Part II, Item 7 entitled \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" and elsewhere throughout this report and in any documents incorporated in this report by reference.. You should consider carefully the following risk factors, together with all of the other information included or incorporated in this report. If any of the following risks, either alone or taken together, or other risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe to not be significant, develop into actual events, then our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected. If that happens, the market price of our common stock could decline, and stockholders may lose all or part of their investment.. Risks Related to our Business and the Clinical Development and Commercialization of our Product Candidates. We depend almost entirely on the success of two product candidates, the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid, which are in Phase 3 clinical development. We cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain regulatory approval for, or successfully commercialize, our product candidates.. The bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid are our only product candidates in clinical development, and our business depends almost entirely on their successful clinical development, regulatory approvals and commercialization. We currently have no drug products for sale and may never be able to develop marketable drug products. The bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid may require substantial additional clinical development, testing, and regulatory approvals before we are permitted to commence their commercialization. The clinical studies of our product candidates are, and the manufacturing and marketing of our product candidates will be, subject to extensive and rigorous review and regulation by numerous government authorities in the U.S. and in other countries where we intend to test and, if approved, market any product candidate. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any product candidate, we must demonstrate through preclinical testing and clinical studies that the product candidate is safe and effective for use in each target indication. This process can take many years and require the expenditure of substantial resources beyond the proceeds we have raised, and may include post-marketing studies and surveillance, including a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy, or REMS program. Of the large number of drugs in development in the U.S., only a small percentage successfully complete the approval process at the FDA, EMA or any other foreign regulatory agency, and are commercialized. Accordingly, even if we are able to obtain the requisite financing to continue to fund our development and clinical programs, we cannot assure you that the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid or any other of our product candidates will be successfully developed or commercialized.. We are not permitted to market our product candidates in the U.S. or Europe until we receive approval of an NDA from the FDA, a MAA from the EMA, or in any other foreign countries until we receive the requisite approval from such countries. As a condition to submitting an NDA or MAA for the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill to treat patients with hypercholesterolemia, we initiated and intend to complete the pivotal Phase 3 clinical study (1002FDC-053) in addition to the. 28. Table of Contents. global pivotal Phase 3 LDL-C lowering program for bempedoic acid, to support an NDA submission for an LDL-C lowering indication. As a condition to submitting an NDA or MAA for bempedoic acid to treat patients with hypercholesterolemia, we have currently completed nine Phase 2 clinical studies and expect to complete the global pivotal Phase 3 LDL-C lowering efficacy and safety studies to support an NDA submission for an LDL-C lowering indication, and to complete the CLEAR Outcomes CVOT to support an NDA submission for a CVD risk reduction indication.. Additionally, we currently intend to submit NDAs in tandem for the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and for bempedoic acid for LDL-C lowering indications by the first quarter of 2019 if we successfully complete our Phase 3 1002FDC-053 clinical study and Phase 3 LDL-C lowering program, based on the FDA's recent guidance that these programs are adequate to support approval of an LDL-C lowering indication. However, there is no guarantee that the FDA will view results from our Phase 3 1002FDC-053 clinical study or global pivotal Phase 3 LDL-C lowering program alone as sufficient to support approval of an LDL-C lowering indication for the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid. In the event that FDA determines LDL-C lowering is no longer a surrogate endpoint for initial approval of the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid in the future, we would plan to submit our NDA for bempedoic acid with a proposed indication of CV risk reduction in statin intolerant patients on the basis of a completed and successful CLEAR Outcomes CVOT, which would include the results of the global pivotal Phase 3 LDL-C lowering program, by 2022. Obtaining approval of an NDA is a complex, lengthy, expensive and uncertain process, and the FDA may delay, limit or deny approval of the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid for many reasons, including, among others:. <U+0095> the FDA, EMA or any other regulatory authorities may change their approval policies or adopt new regulations, including with respect to whether LDL-C lowering is a surrogate endpoint for initial approval of the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid;    <U+0095> the FDA, EMA or any other regulatory authorities may change their approval policies for an LDL-C lowering indication for the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid if there is a shift in the future standard-of-care for statin intolerant patients with hypercholesterolemia;    <U+0095> we may not be able to demonstrate that the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid are safe and effective in treating patients with hypercholesterolemia to the satisfaction of the FDA, EMA or any other regulatory agency;    <U+0095> the results of our clinical studies may not meet the level of statistical or clinical significance required by the FDA or EMA for marketing approval;    <U+0095> the magnitude of the treatment effect must also be clinically meaningful along with the drug's safety for a favorable benefit/risk assessment by the FDA, EMA or any other regulatory agency;    <U+0095> the FDA, EMA or any other regulatory agency may change in the future the number, design, size, duration, patient enrollment criteria, exposure of patients, or conduct or implementation of our clinical studies;    <U+0095> the FDA, EMA or any other regulatory agency may require that we conduct additional clinical studies;     <U+0095> the FDA, EMA or any other regulatory agency may not approve the formulation, specifications or labeling of the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid;    <U+0095> the clinical research organizations, or CROs, that we retain to conduct our clinical studies may take actions outside of our control that materially adversely impact our clinical studies;. 29. Table of Contents. <U+0095> the FDA, EMA or any other regulatory agency may find the data from preclinical studies and clinical studies insufficient to demonstrate that the clinical and other benefits of the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid outweigh the safety risks;    <U+0095> the FDA, EMA or any other regulatory agency may disagree with our interpretation of data from our preclinical studies and clinical studies;     <U+0095> the FDA, EMA or any other regulatory agency may not accept data generated at our clinical study sites;     <U+0095> if our NDAs, if and when submitted, are reviewed by an advisory committee, the FDA may have difficulties scheduling an advisory committee meeting in a timely manner or the advisory committee may recommend against approval of our applications or may recommend that the FDA require, as a condition of approval, additional preclinical studies or clinical studies, limitations in approved labeling or distribution and use restrictions;    <U+0095> the FDA, EMA or any other regulatory agency may require the development of a REMS as a condition of approval or post-approval; or     <U+0095> the FDA, EMA or any other regulatory agency may not approve the manufacturing processes or facilities of third-party manufacturers with which we contract.. Any of these factors, many of which are beyond our control, could jeopardize our ability to obtain regulatory approval for and successfully market the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid. Moreover, because our business is almost entirely dependent upon these product candidates, any setback in our pursuit of its regulatory approval would have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects.. The development and approvals required for the approval of the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill are substantially identical to those for bempedoic acid, and the risks relating to the clinical development and approval of bempedoic acid apply equally to the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill. The FDA accepted our submission of an IND application for the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill in the second quarter of 2016 and we completed a bioavailability study. We announced the clinical development and regulatory plans for the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill in June 2017. Any failure in our development of bempedoic acid would materially and adversely affect our ability to develop, seek approval for and commercialize the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill for the planned indications. In addition, even if bempedoic acid succeeds in its clinical development and is approved for one or more indications, there can be no assurance that the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill would be developed successfully and approved for the same indications or at all, and vice versa.. Failures or delays in the completion of our global pivotal Phase 3 efficacy and safety studies, our pivotal Phase 3 clinical study for the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or our CLEAR Outcomes CVOT for bempedoic acid could result in increased costs to us and could delay, prevent or limit our ability to generate revenue and continue our business.. In January 2016, we commenced our global pivotal Phase 3 long-term safety and tolerability study (Study 1). We initiated our three remaining global pivotal Phase 3 LDL-C lowering efficacy studies and the CLEAR Outcomes CVOT in December 2016. We do not know whether our ongoing clinical studies will be completed on schedule, if at all. We initiated our pivotal Phase 3 1002FDC-053 clinical study for the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill in November 2017. We do not know whether this study will be completed on schedule. Successful completion of such clinical studies and, if required by the FDA due to a change in regulatory policy, our CLEAR Outcomes CVOT, are likely prerequisites to submitting an initial NDA to the FDA, MAA to the EMA or a similar application to any other foreign regulatory authorities from whom we seek to obtain approval and, consequently, the ultimate approval. 30. Table of Contents. and commercialization of the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid. The commencement and completion of clinical studies can be delayed or prevented for a number of reasons, including, among others:. <U+0095> the FDA, EMA or any other regulatory authority may not agree to the study design or overall program;     <U+0095> the FDA, EMA or any other regulatory authority may place a clinical study on hold;    <U+0095> delays in reaching or failing to reach agreement on acceptable terms with prospective CROs and study sites, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different CROs and study sites;    <U+0095> inadequate quantity or quality of a product candidate or other materials necessary to conduct clinical studies;     <U+0095> difficulties or delays obtaining institutional review board, or IRB, approval to conduct a clinical study at a prospective site or sites;     <U+0095> challenges in recruiting and enrolling patients to participate in clinical studies or in our CLEAR Outcomes CVOT, including the size and nature of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, eligibility criteria for the clinical study, the nature of the clinical study protocol, the availability of approved effective treatments for the relevant disease and competition from other clinical study programs, including PCSK9 inhibitors, for similar indications;    <U+0095> severe or unexpected drug-related side effects experienced by patients in a clinical study, including instances of muscle pain or weakness or other side effects;    <U+0095> reports from preclinical or clinical testing of other cardiometabolic therapies that raise safety or efficacy concerns; and     <U+0095> difficulties retaining patients who have enrolled in a clinical study but may be prone to withdraw due to rigors of the study, lack of efficacy, side effects, personal issues or loss of interest.. Clinical studies may also be delayed or terminated as a result of ambiguous or negative interim results. In addition, a clinical study may be suspended or terminated by us, the FDA, the EMA, the IRBs at the sites where the IRBs are overseeing a clinical study, a data safety monitoring committee, or DMC, overseeing the clinical study at issue or any other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including, among others:. <U+0095> failure to conduct the clinical study in accordance with regulatory requirements or our clinical protocols;     <U+0095> inspection of the clinical study operations or study sites by the FDA, EMA or any other regulatory authorities that reveals deficiencies or violations that require us to undertake corrective action, including the imposition of a clinical hold;    <U+0095> unforeseen safety issues;    <U+0095> changes in government regulations or administrative actions;    <U+0095> problems with clinical supply materials; and    <U+0095> lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical study.. 31. Table of Contents. Positive results from completed Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical studies of bempedoic acid are not necessarily predictive of the results of our ongoing global pivotal Phase 3 LDL-C lowering studies and CLEAR Outcomes CVOT of bempedoic acid or our pivotal Phase 3 clinical study for the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill, nor do they guarantee approval of the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid by the FDA, EMA or any other regulatory agency. If we cannot replicate the positive results from our completed Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical studies of bempedoic acid in our ongoing and planned clinical studies and CVOT, we may be unable to successfully develop, obtain regulatory approval for and commercialize the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid.. There is a high failure rate for drugs proceeding through clinical studies. Even if we are able to complete our ongoing global pivotal Phase 3 LDL-C studies, CLEAR Outcomes CVOT, pivotal Phase 3 clinical study for the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill, and any potential additional Phase 3 clinical studies of bempedoic acid according to our current development timeline, the positive results from our completed Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical studies of bempedoic acid, including those of our Phase 2 PK/PD (1002-035) study completed in October 2016, may not be replicated in our ongoing global pivotal Phase 3 LDL-C studies, CLEAR Outcomes CVOT, or pivotal Phase 3 1002FDC-053 clinical study results, nor do they guarantee approval of the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid by the FDA, EMA or any other regulatory authorities in a timely manner or at all. Many companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have suffered significant setbacks in late-stage clinical studies after achieving positive results in early stage development, and we cannot be certain that we will not face similar setbacks. These setbacks have been caused by, among other things, preclinical findings made while clinical studies were underway or safety or efficacy observations made in clinical studies, including previously unreported adverse events. In addition, regulatory delays or rejections may be encountered as a result of many factors, including changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development.. Moreover, preclinical and clinical data are often susceptible to varying interpretations and analyses, and many companies that believed their product candidates performed satisfactorily in preclinical studies and clinical studies nonetheless failed to obtain FDA and/or EMA approval. If we fail to obtain positive results in our ongoing global pivotal Phase 3 LDL-C studies, CLEAR Outcomes CVOT, pivotal Phase 3 clinical study for the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill, and any potential additional Phase 3 clinical studies of bempedoic acid, the development timeline and regulatory approval and commercialization prospects for our leading product candidate, and, correspondingly, our business and financial prospects, would be materially adversely affected.. We will need substantial additional capital in the future. If additional capital is not available, we will have to delay, reduce or cease operations.. We reported top-line results from our Phase 2 (1002-008) clinical study in October 2014, our Phase 2 (1002-009) clinical study in March 2015, our Phase 2 (1002-014) exploratory clinical safety study in July 2015, and our Phase 2 PK/PD (1002-035) clinical study and Phase 1 PK (1002-037) study in October 2016. We held our End-of-Phase 2 meeting with the FDA in August 2015. In January 2016, we commenced our global pivotal Phase 3 long-term safety study (Study 1). We engaged in active dialogue in 2016 with the FDA and EMA to discuss our global pivotal Phase 3 clinical program for bempedoic acid and, based on that dialogue, announced our clinical development and regulatory plans for bempedoic acid in June 2016. We initiated our global pivotal Phase 3 LDL-C lowering efficacy studies and our CLEAR Outcomes CVOT in December 2016. In March 2017, we announced that the FDA confirmed that our global pivotal Phase 3 LDL-C lowering program is adequate to support approval of an LDL-C lowering indication for bempedoic acid, and reached an agreement with the FDA on the definition of statin intolerance. In June 2017, we announced that the FDA confirmed the regulatory pathway to approval for the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill. However, there is no guarantee that the FDA will view results from our Phase 3 1002FDC-053 clinical study or global. 32. Table of Contents. pivotal Phase 3 LDL-C lowering program alone as sufficient to support approval for the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid. We currently intend to submit an NDA for an LDL-C lowering indication for the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill through the abbreviated 505(b)(2) pathway by the first quarter of 2019 if we successfully complete our Phase 3 1002FDC-053 clinical study and our global pivotal Phase 3 LDL-C lowering program. We currently intend to submit an NDA for bempedoic acid for an LDL-C lowering indication in patients with hypercholesterolemia by the first quarter of 2019 if we successfully complete our global pivotal Phase 3 LDL-C lowering program.. In the event that FDA determines LDL-C lowering is no longer a surrogate endpoint for initial approval of the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid in the future, we would plan to submit our NDA for bempedoic acid (monotherapy) for a CV risk reduction indication on the basis of a completed and successful CVOT, which would include the results of the global pivotal Phase 3 LDL-C lowering program, by 2022. We expect that these clinical studies, plus any additional clinical studies that we undertake for the clinical development of the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid, will consume substantial additional financial resources. We expect that our existing cash and cash equivalents only will be sufficient to fund through the expected approvals of the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid in the first quarter of 2020. We will need to raise additional capital to continue to fund the further development and commercialization of the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid and our operations. Our future capital requirements may be substantial and will depend on many factors including:. <U+0095> the scope, size, rate of progress, results and costs of completing our CLEAR Outcomes CVOT of bempedoic acid;     <U+0095> the scope, size, rate of progress, results and costs of completing our global pivotal Phase 3 LDL-C lowering program of bempedoic acid, which currently includes multiple global pivotal Phase 3 clinical efficacy and safety studies;    <U+0095> the scope, size, rate of progress, results and costs of clinical development of the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill for the same indications as bempedoic acid, including that of our pivotal Phase 3 clinical study;    <U+0095> the cost, timing and outcome of our efforts to obtain marketing approval for the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid, including to fund the preparation and submission of two NDAs with the FDA and two MAAs with the EMA for the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid and to satisfy related FDA and EMA requirements;    <U+0095> the number and characteristics of any additional product candidates we develop or acquire;    <U+0095> the costs associated with commercializing the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid or any future product candidates if we receive marketing approval, including the cost and timing of developing sales and marketing capabilities or entering into strategic collaborations to market and sell the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid or any future product candidates;    <U+0095> the cost of manufacturing the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid or any future product candidates and any products we successfully commercialize; and    <U+0095> the costs associated with general corporate activities, such as the cost of filing, prosecuting and enforcing patent claims.. Changing circumstances may cause us to consume capital significantly faster than we currently anticipate. Because the outcome of any clinical study is highly uncertain, we cannot reasonably estimate. 33. Table of Contents. the actual amounts necessary to successfully complete the development, regulatory approval and commercialization of the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid and any future product candidates. Additional financing may not be available when we need it or may not be available on terms that are favorable to us. In addition, we may seek additional capital due to favorable market conditions or strategic considerations, even if we believe we have sufficient funds for our current or future operating plans. If adequate funds are unavailable to us on a timely basis, or at all, we may not be able to continue the development of the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid or any future product candidate, or to commercialize the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid or any future product candidate, if approved, unless we find a partner.. We are an emerging pharmaceutical company and have not generated any revenue from product sales. We have incurred significant operating losses since our inception, and anticipate that we will incur continued losses for the foreseeable future.. We have a limited operating history on which to base your investment decision. Pharmaceutical product development is a highly speculative undertaking and involves a substantial degree of risk. We were incorporated in January 2008. Our operations to date have been limited primarily to organizing and staffing our company and conducting research and development activities for bempedoic acid. We have never generated any revenue from product sales. We have not obtained regulatory approvals for any of our product candidates. As such, we are subject to all the risks incident to the development, regulatory approval and commercialization of new pharmaceutical products and we may encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications, delays and other unknown factors.. Since our inception, we have focused substantially all of our efforts and financial resources on developing bempedoic acid, which commenced Phase 3 clinical development in January 2016. We have funded our operations to date primarily through proceeds from sales of preferred stock, public offerings of common stock, convertible promissory notes and warrants and the incurrence of indebtedness, and we have incurred losses in each year since our inception. Our net losses were $167.0 million, $75.0 million and $49.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. As of December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of $396.3 million. Substantially all of our operating losses resulted from costs incurred in connection with our development program and from general and administrative costs associated with our operations. We expect to incur increasing levels of operating losses over the next several years and for the foreseeable future. Our prior losses, combined with expected future losses, have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our stockholders' equity and working capital. We expect to continue incurring research and development expenses in connection with our ongoing and additional clinical studies of bempedoic acid, particularly our Phase 3 program and CLEAR Outcomes CVOT, as well as any clinical studies that we undertake to develop the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill, including our ongoing global pivotal Phase 3 1002FDC-053 clinical study, and development of any other product candidates we may choose to pursue. In addition, if we obtain marketing approval for the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid, we will also incur significant sales, marketing and outsourced manufacturing expenses and expect a significant increase in our research and development expenses in connection with the commercialization of the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid, respectively. As a public company, we have incurred and will continue to incur additional costs associated with operating as a public company, particularly now that we are no longer an \"emerging growth company.\" As a result, we expect to continue to incur significant and increasing operating losses for the foreseeable future. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with developing pharmaceutical products, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or when we will become profitable, if at all. Even if we do become profitable, we may not be able to sustain or increase our profitability on a quarterly or annual basis.. 34. Table of Contents. Changes in regulatory requirements, FDA or EMA guidance or unanticipated events during our global pivotal Phase 3 clinical studies, our pivotal Phase 3 clinical study for the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill, or our CVOT of bempedoic acid may occur, which may result in changes to clinical study protocols or additional clinical study requirements, which could result in increased costs to us and could delay our development timeline.. Changes in regulatory requirements, FDA or EMA guidance or unanticipated events during our clinical studies may force us to amend clinical study protocols or the FDA or EMA may impose additional clinical study requirements. Significant amendments to our clinical study protocols may require resubmission to the FDA and/or IRBs for review and approval, which may adversely impact the cost, timing and/or successful completion of these studies. If we experience substantial delays completing - or if we terminate - any of our global pivotal Phase 3 clinical studies, our Phase 3 1002FDC-053 clinical study, or our CVOT, or if we are required to conduct additional clinical studies, the commercial prospects for the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid may be harmed and our ability to generate product revenue will be delayed.. Even though we completed enrollment of our global pivotal Phase 3 LDL-C lowering studies, we may not be able to identify and enroll the requisite number of patients in our Phase 3 1002FDC-053 clinical study, our CLEAR Outcomes CVOT, or any study that we undertake to support the development of our product candidates. Even if we are successful in enrolling patients, we may not ultimately be able to demonstrate sufficient clinical benefits from the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid, and our failure to do so may delay or hinder our ability to obtain FDA or EMA approval for these product candidates. We currently intend to submit NDAs in tandem for the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and for bempedoic acid for LDL-C lowering indications by the first quarter of 2019 if we successfully complete our Phase 3 1002FDC-053 clinical study and Phase 3 LDL-C lowering program, based on the FDA's recent guidance that these programs are adequate to support approval of an LDL-C lowering. However, the FDA has indicated its position regarding an LDL-C lowering indication could be impacted by potential future changes in their view of LDL-C lowering as a surrogate endpoint or the possibility of a shift in the future standard-of-care for statin intolerant patients with hypercholesterolemia, and there is no guarantee that the FDA will view results from our Phase 3 1002FDC-053 clinical study and global pivotal Phase 3 LDL-C lowering program alone as sufficient to support approvals of an LDL-C lowering indication. Conducting our CLEAR Outcomes CVOT will be costly and time-consuming, and any requirement to complete the CVOT prior to approval of bempedoic acid would adversely affect our development timeline and financial condition.. We have limited experience using the 505(b)(2) regulatory pathway to submit an NDA or any similar drug approval application to the FDA, and we cannot be certain that any of our product candidates will receive regulatory approval.. We are developing bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill for which we may seek FDA approval through the Section 505(b)(2) regulatory pathway. The Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, also known as the Hatch-Waxman Act, added Section 505(b)(2) to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA. Section 505(b)(2) permits the submission of an NDA where at least some of the information required for approval comes from studies that were not conducted by or for the applicant and for which the applicant has not obtained a right of reference. Section 505(b)(2) would allow an NDA we submit to FDA to rely in part on data in the public domain or the FDA's prior conclusions regarding the safety and effectiveness of approved compounds, which could expedite the development program for our product candidates by potentially decreasing the amount of clinical data that we would need to generate in order to obtain FDA approval. If the FDA does not allow us to pursue the Section 505(b)(2) regulatory pathway as anticipated, we may need to conduct additional clinical trials, provide additional data and information, and meet additional. 35. Table of Contents. standards for regulatory approval. If this were to occur, the time and financial resources required to obtain FDA approval for these product candidates, and complications and risks associated with these product candidates, would likely substantially increase. We could need to obtain additional funding, which could result in significant dilution to the ownership interests of our existing stockholders to the extent we issue equity securities or convertible debt. We cannot assure you that we would be able to obtain such additional financing on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Moreover, inability to pursue the Section 505(b)(2) regulatory pathway could result in new competitive products reaching the market more quickly than our product candidates, which would likely materially adversely impact our competitive position and prospects. Even if we are allowed to pursue the Section 505(b)(2) regulatory pathway, we cannot assure you that the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill will receive the requisite approvals for commercialization.. In addition, notwithstanding the approval of a number of products by the FDA under Section 505(b)(2) over the last few years, certain brand-name pharmaceutical companies and others have objected to the FDA's interpretation of Section 505(b)(2). If the FDA's interpretation of Section 505(b)(2) is successfully challenged, the FDA may change its 505(b)(2) policies and practices, which could delay or even prevent the FDA from approving any NDA that we submit under Section 505(b)(2). In addition, the pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive, and Section 505(b)(2) NDAs are subject to special requirements designed to protect the patent rights of sponsors of previously approved drugs that are referenced in a Section 505(b)(2) NDA. These requirements may give rise to patent litigation and mandatory delays in approval of our NDAs for up to 30 months or longer depending on the outcome of any litigation. It is not uncommon for a manufacturer of an approved product to file a citizen petition with the FDA seeking to delay approval of, or impose additional approval requirements for, pending competing products. If successful, such petitions can significantly delay, or even prevent, the approval of the new product. However, even if the FDA ultimately denies such a petition, the FDA may substantially delay approval while it considers and responds to the petition. In addition, even if we are able to utilize the Section 505(b)(2) regulatory pathway, there is no guarantee this would ultimately lead to accelerated product development or earlier approval.. Moreover, even if our product candidates are approved under Section 505(b)(2), the approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the products may be marketed or to other conditions of approval, or may contain requirements for costly post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of the products.. Even if we receive marketing approval for the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid, we may still face future development and regulatory difficulties.. Even if we receive marketing approval for the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid, regulatory authorities may still impose significant restrictions on the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid's indicated uses or marketing or impose ongoing requirements for potentially costly post-approval studies, such as a CVOT. The bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid will also be subject to ongoing FDA requirements governing the packaging, storage, labeling, advertising and promotion of the product, recordkeeping and submission of safety updates and other post-marketing information. The FDA has significant post-marketing authority, including, for example, the authority to require labeling changes based on new safety information and to require post-marketing studies or clinical studies to evaluate serious safety risks related to the use of a drug product. The FDA also has the authority to require, as part of an NDA or post-approval, the submission of a REMS. Any REMS required by the FDA may lead to increased costs to assure compliance with post-approval regulatory requirements and potential requirements or restrictions on the sale of approved products, all of which could lead to lower sales volume and revenue. The EMA and other foreign regulatory authorities may impose similar. 36. Table of Contents. requirements on the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid as those described above with respect to the FDA.. Manufacturers of drug products and their facilities are subject to continual review and periodic inspections by the FDA and other regulatory authorities for compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices and other regulations. If we or a regulatory agency discover problems with the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid, such as adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or problems with the facility where the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid is manufactured, a regulatory agency may impose restrictions on the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid, the manufacturer or us, including requiring withdrawal of the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid from the market or suspension of manufacturing. If we, the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid or the manufacturing facilities for the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may, among other things:. <U+0095> issue warning letters or untitled letters;    <U+0095> seek an injunction or impose civil or criminal penalties or monetary fines;    <U+0095> suspend or withdraw marketing approval;    <U+0095> suspend any ongoing clinical studies;    <U+0095> refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to applications submitted by us;    <U+0095> suspend or impose restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; or    <U+0095> seize or detain products, refuse to permit the import or export of products, or request that we initiate a product recall.. Even if we receive marketing approval for the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid in the U.S., we may never receive regulatory approval to market the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid outside of the U.S., and vice versa.. In order to market any product outside of the U.S., we must establish and comply with the numerous and varying efficacy, safety and other regulatory requirements of the countries in which we intend to market our product. Approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product candidate testing and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approvals in other countries might differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The marketing approval processes in other countries may include all of the risks detailed above regarding FDA approval in the U.S. as well as other risks, or vice versa. In particular, in many countries outside of the U.S., products must receive pricing and reimbursement approval before the product can be commercialized. Obtaining this approval can result in substantial delays in bringing products to market in such countries. Marketing approval in one country does not ensure marketing approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining marketing approval in one country may have a negative effect on the regulatory process in others. Failure to obtain marketing approval in other countries or any delay or other setback in obtaining such approval would impair our ability to commercialize the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid in such foreign markets. Any such impairment would reduce the size of our potential market, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and prospects.. 37. Table of Contents. Even if we receive marketing approval for the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid, it may not achieve broad market acceptance, which would limit the revenue that we generate from its sales.. The commercial success of the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid, if approved by the FDA or other regulatory authorities, will depend upon the awareness and acceptance of the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid among the medical community, including physicians, patients and healthcare payors. Market acceptance of the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid, if approved, will depend on a number of factors, including, among others:. <U+0095> the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid's demonstrated ability to treat statin intolerant patients for LDL-C lowering or CV risk reduction as an add-on for patients already on statin therapy, as compared with other available therapies;    <U+0095> the relative convenience and ease of administration of the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid, including as compared with other treatments for patients for LDL-C lowering or CV risk reduction;    <U+0095> the prevalence and severity of any adverse side effects such as muscle pain or weakness;    <U+0095> limitations or warnings contained in the labeling approved for the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid by the FDA;     <U+0095> availability of alternative treatments, including a number of competitive therapies already approved for LDL-C lowering or CV risk reduction, including PCSK9 inhibitors, or expected to be commercially launched in the near future;    <U+0095> pricing and cost effectiveness;    <U+0095> the effectiveness of our sales and marketing strategies;    <U+0095> our ability to increase awareness of the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid through marketing efforts;     <U+0095> our ability to obtain sufficient third-party coverage or reimbursement; and    <U+0095> the willingness of patients to pay out-of-pocket in the absence of third-party coverage.. If the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid is approved but does not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by patients, physicians and payors, we may not generate sufficient revenue from the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid to become or remain profitable. Our efforts to educate the medical community and third-party payors about the benefits of the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid may require significant resources and may never be successful.. If we are unable to establish sales and marketing capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to market and sell the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid, we may not be able to generate any revenue.. We do not currently have an infrastructure for the sales, marketing and distribution of pharmaceutical products. In order to market the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid, if approved by the FDA or any other regulatory body, we must build our sales, marketing, managerial, and other non-technical capabilities or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services. If we are unable to establish adequate sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, whether independently or with third parties, or if we are unable to do so on commercially reasonable terms, our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects will be materially adversely affected.. 38. Table of Contents. Even if we obtain marketing approval for the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid, physicians and patients using other LDL-C lowering therapies may choose not to switch to our product.. Physicians are often reluctant to switch their patients from existing therapies even when new and potentially more effective, safe or convenient treatments enter the market. In addition, patients often acclimate to the brand or type of therapy that they are currently taking and do not want to switch unless their physicians recommend switching products or they are required to switch therapies due to lack of reimbursement for existing therapies. If physicians or patients are reluctant to switch from existing therapies to the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid, if approved, our operating results and financial condition would be materially adversely affected.. The development and, if approved, commercialization of the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill depends on the availability to and use of ezetimibe by the target patient of this combination therapy.. The bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill is dependent on the continued availability and use of ezetimibe in the marketplace, and there can be no assurance that the current availability and use of ezetimibe will continue. For example, changes in standard of care or use patterns of ezetimibe could make our bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill therapy obsolete. In addition, ezetimibe could encounter unexpected results in the future and be associated with adverse outcomes during long-term use. Finally, the producers of ezetimibe are under no obligation to continue producing, commercializing or making ezetimibe available to patients, or to continue producing ezetimibe in any particular quantity, which could prevent our ability to obtain ezetimibe for use in our planned clinical trials or impact the number of patients taking ezetimibe who are available to enroll in our clinical trials. For example, such producers may encounter manufacturing or other production issues and fail to produce enough ezetimibe for us to successfully complete our studies and clinical trials, and this could cause our bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill development program or commercialization efforts, if the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill is approved, to fail or be significantly delayed.. Guidelines and recommendations published by various organizations may adversely affect the FDA's review of the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid for LDL-C lowering in patients or the use or commercial viability of the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid, if approved for any indication or patient population.. Government agencies issue regulations and guidelines directly applicable to us and to the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid, including guidelines generally relating to therapeutically significant LDL-C levels. In addition, professional societies, practice management groups, private health or science foundations and other organizations involved in the research, treatment and prevention of various diseases from time to time publish guidelines or recommendations to the medical and patient communities. These various sorts of recommendations may relate to such matters as product usage and use of related or competing therapies. For example, organizations such as the AHA have made recommendations about therapies in the cardiovascular therapeutics market. In addition, while we recently reached an agreement with the FDA on the definition of statin intolerance, there is no guarantee that the FDA's view of this definition would not change in the future. We expect that the FDA's view of the standard of care for patients with hypercholesterolemia at the time we submit our NDAs for LDL-C lowering indications in patients with hypercholesterolemia will impact the evaluation of such NDAs, including how this standard of care evolves in light of guidelines and recommendations in respect of the use of PCSK9 inhibitors. In addition, following any approval, we expect that changes to these existing recommendations or other guidelines advocating alternative therapies could result in decreased use of the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid, which would adversely affect our results of operations.. 39. Table of Contents. Even if approved, reimbursement policies could limit our ability to sell the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid.. Market acceptance and sales of the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid will depend on reimbursement policies and may be affected by healthcare reform measures. Government authorities and third-party payors, such as private health insurers and health maintenance organizations, decide which medications they will pay for and establish reimbursement levels for those medications. Cost containment is a primary concern in the U.S. healthcare industry and elsewhere. Government authorities and these third-party payors have attempted to control costs by limiting coverage and the amount of reimbursement for particular medications. We cannot be sure that reimbursement will be available for the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid and, if reimbursement is available, the level of such reimbursement. Reimbursement may impact the demand for, or the price of, the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid. If reimbursement is not available or is available only at limited levels, we may not be able to successfully commercialize the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid.. In some foreign countries, particularly in Canada and European countries, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to strict governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take six to 12 months or longer after the receipt of regulatory approval and product launch. To obtain favorable reimbursement for the indications sought or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical study that compares the cost-effectiveness of the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid with other available therapies. If reimbursement for the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid is unavailable in any country in which we seek reimbursement, if it is limited in scope or amount, if it is conditioned upon our completion of additional clinical studies, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, our operating results could be materially adversely affected.. Our future product development programs for candidates other than the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid may require substantial financial resources and may ultimately be unsuccessful.. In addition to the development of the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid, we may in the future pursue the development of other early-stage development programs. Our potential product candidates have not commenced any clinical studies, and there are a number of FDA requirements that we must satisfy before we can commence such clinical studies. Satisfaction of these requirements will entail substantial time, effort and financial resources. We may never satisfy these requirements. Any time, effort and financial resources we expend on any early-stage development programs that we may pursue may adversely affect our ability to continue development and commercialization of the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid, and we may never commence clinical studies of such development programs despite expending significant resources in pursuit of their development. If we do commence clinical studies of our other potential product candidates, such product candidates may never be approved by the FDA.. Recent federal legislation will increase pressure to reduce prices of pharmaceutical products paid for by Medicare, which could materially adversely affect our revenue, if any, and our results of operations.. In the United States, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, also called the MMA, changed the way Medicare covers and pays for pharmaceutical products. The legislation expanded Medicare coverage for drug purchases by the elderly and introduced a new reimbursement methodology based on average sales prices for physician-administered drugs. In addition, this legislation provided authority for limiting the number of drugs that will be covered in any therapeutic class. As a result of this legislation and the expansion of federal coverage of drug products, we expect that there will be additional pressure to reduce costs. These cost reduction initiatives and. 40. Table of Contents. other provisions of this legislation could decrease the scope of coverage and the price that we receive for any approved products and could seriously harm our business. While the MMA applies only to drug benefits for Medicare beneficiaries, private payors often follow Medicare coverage policies and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement rates, and any reduction in reimbursement that results from the MMA may cause a similar reduction in payments from private payors. This legislation may pose an even greater risk to the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid than some other pharmaceutical products because a significant portion of the target patient population for the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid would likely be over 65 years of age and, therefore, many such patients will be covered by Medicare.. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act, or collectively, the PPACA, became law in the United States. The goal of the PPACA is to reduce the cost of healthcare and substantially change the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers. While we cannot predict what impact on federal reimbursement policies this legislation will have in general or on our business specifically, the PPACA may result in downward pressure on pharmaceutical reimbursement, which could negatively affect market acceptance of the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid, if approved, or any of our future products. In 2012, members of the U.S. Congress and some state legislatures sought to overturn certain provisions of the PPACA including those concerning the mandatory purchase of insurance. However, on June 28, 2012, the United States Supreme Court upheld the constitutionality of these provisions. Members of the U.S. Congress have since proposed a number of legislative initiatives, including possible repeal of the PPACA. We cannot predict the outcome or impact of current proposals or whether new proposals will be made or adopted, when they may be adopted or what impact they may have on us if they are adopted. These challenges add to the uncertainty of the legislative changes as part of ACA.. Finally, the availability of generic LDL-C lowering treatments may also substantially reduce the likelihood of reimbursement for branded counterparts or other competitive LDL-C lowering therapies, such as the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid if it is approved for commercial distribution. If we fail to successfully secure and maintain reimbursement coverage for our products or are significantly delayed in doing so, we will have difficulty achieving market acceptance of our products and our business will be harmed.. Recent federal legislation and actions by state and local governments may permit reimportation of drugs from foreign countries into the United States, including foreign countries where the drugs are sold at lower prices than in the United States, which could materially adversely affect our operating results.. We may face competition for the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid, if approved, from cheaper LDL-C lowering therapies sourced from foreign countries that have placed price controls on pharmaceutical products. The MMA contains provisions that may change U.S. importation laws and expand pharmacists' and wholesalers' ability to import cheaper versions of an approved drug and competing products from Canada, where there are government price controls. These changes to U.S. importation laws will not take effect unless and until the Secretary of Health and Human Services certifies that the changes will pose no additional risk to the public's health and safety and will result in a significant reduction in the cost of products to consumers. The Secretary of Health and Human Services has so far declined to approve a reimportation plan. Proponents of drug reimportation may attempt to pass legislation that would directly allow reimportation under certain circumstances. Legislation or regulations allowing the reimportation of drugs, if enacted, could decrease the price we receive for any products that we may develop, including the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid, and adversely affect our future revenues and prospects for profitability.. 41. Table of Contents. The FDA and other regulatory agencies actively enforce the laws and regulations prohibiting the promotion of off-label uses. If we are found to have improperly promoted off-label uses, we may become subject to significant liability.. The FDA and other regulatory agencies strictly regulate the promotional claims that may be made about prescription products, such as the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid if approved. In particular, a product may not be promoted for uses that are not approved by the FDA or other regulatory agencies as reflected in the product's approved labeling. If we receive marketing approval for the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid as a therapy for lowering LDL-C levels in statin intolerant patients with elevated LDL-C, the first indication we intend to pursue, physicians may nevertheless prescribe the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid to their patients in a manner that is inconsistent with the approved label, potentially including as a therapy in addition to statins. If we are found to have promoted such off-label uses, we may become subject to significant liability. The federal government has levied large civil and criminal fines against companies for alleged improper promotion and has enjoined several companies from engaging in off-label promotion. The FDA has also requested that companies enter into consent decrees, corporate integrity agreements or permanent injunctions under which specified promotional conduct is changed or curtailed. If we cannot successfully manage the promotion of the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid, if approved, we could become subject to significant liability, which would materially adversely affect our business and financial condition.. Our market is subject to intense competition. If we are unable to compete effectively, our opportunity to generate revenue from the sale of the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid, if approved, will be materially adversely affected.. The LDL-C lowering therapies market is highly competitive and dynamic and dominated by the sale of inexpensive generic versions of statins. In 2017, generic statins, ezetimibe, and fixed combination drugs accounted for about 93% of U.S. prescriptions within the cholesterol / LDL-C lowering market. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain a share of the market, initially, for patients with hypercholesterolemia and ASCVD and/or HeFH, including high cardiovascular risk primary prevention patients, whose LDL-C is not adequately controlled despite receiving maximally tolerated lipid-modifying background therapy, or only able to tolerate less than the lowest approved daily starting dose of their statin and are therefore considered to be statin intolerant. Potential competitors in North America, Europe and elsewhere include major pharmaceutical companies, specialty pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology firms, universities and other research institutions and government agencies. Other pharmaceutical companies may develop LDL-C lowering therapies for patients that compete with the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid, if approved, that do not infringe the claims of our patents, pending patent applications or other proprietary rights, which could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. The FDA has also indicated to us that approval of other therapies could have an impact on their review of NDAs we submit for the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid for our LDL-C lowering programs in these patients.. LDL-C lowering therapies currently on the market that would compete with the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid include the following:. <U+0095> Inexpensive generic versions of statins;    <U+0095> Inexpensive generic versions of ezetimibe, a cholesterol absorption inhibitor;    <U+0095> PCSK9 inhibitors such as Praluent (alirocumab) and Repatha (evolocumab), marketed by Sanofi/Regeneron and Amgen Inc. respectively;    <U+0095> Bile acid sequestrants such as Welchol (colesevelam), marketed by Daiichi Sankyo Inc.;. 42. Table of Contents. <U+0095> MTP inhibitors, such as JUXTAPID (lomitapide), marketed by Novelion Therapeutics, Inc.;     <U+0095> Apo B Anti-Sense therapy, such as KYNAMRO (mipomersen), marketed by Kastle Therapeutics LLC;     <U+0095> Inexpensive generic versions of combination pill therapies, such as ezetimibe and simvastatin; and    <U+0095> Other lipid-lowering monotherapies (including cheaper generic versions), such as Tricor (fenofibrate) and Niaspan (niacin extended release), both of which are marketed by AbbVie, Inc.. Several other pharmaceutical companies have other LDL-C lowering therapies in development that may be approved for marketing in the U.S. or outside of the U.S. Based on publicly available information, we believe the current therapies in development that would compete with the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid include PCSK9 inhibitors in development from Lilly and The Medicines Company/Alnylam.. Many of our potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and human resources than we do and significantly greater experience discovering and developing drug candidates, obtaining FDA and other marketing approvals of products and commercializing those products. Accordingly, our competitors may be more successful than we may be in obtaining FDA approval for drugs and achieving widespread market acceptance. Our competitors' drugs may be more effective, or more effectively marketed and sold, than the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid, if approved, and may render the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid obsolete or non-competitive before we can recover the expenses of developing and commercializing it. If approved, the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid may also compete with unapproved and off-label LDL-C lowering treatments, and following the expiration of additional patents covering the LDL-C lowering market, we may also face additional competition from the entry of new generic drugs. We anticipate that we will encounter intense and increasing competition as new drugs enter the market and advanced technologies become available.. We face potential product liability exposure, and, if claims are brought against us, we may incur substantial liability.. The use of the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid in clinical studies and the sale of the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid, if approved, exposes us to the risk of product liability claims. Product liability claims might be brought against us by patients, healthcare providers or others selling or otherwise coming into contact with the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid. For example, we may be sued if any product we develop allegedly causes injury or is found to be otherwise unsuitable during product testing, manufacturing, marketing or sale. Any such product liability claims may include allegations of defects in manufacturing, defects in design, a failure to warn of dangers inherent in the product, including as a result of interactions with alcohol or other drugs, negligence, strict liability, and a breach of warranties. Claims could also be asserted under state consumer protection acts. If we become subject to product liability claims and cannot successfully defend ourselves against them, we could incur substantial liabilities. In addition, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in, among other things:. <U+0095> withdrawal of patients from our clinical studies;    <U+0095> substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants;    <U+0095> decreased demand for the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid or any future product candidates following marketing approval, if obtained;. 43. Table of Contents. <U+0095> damage to our reputation and exposure to adverse publicity;    <U+0095> increased FDA warnings on product labels;    <U+0095> litigation costs;    <U+0095> distraction of management's attention from our primary business;    <U+0095> loss of revenue; and    <U+0095> the inability to successfully commercialize the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid or any future product candidates, if approved.. We maintain product liability insurance coverage for our clinical studies with a $10.0 million annual aggregate coverage limit, in addition to insurance coverage in specific local jurisdictions. Nevertheless, our insurance coverage may be insufficient to reimburse us for any expenses or losses we may suffer. Moreover, in the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses, including if insurance coverage becomes increasingly expensive. If and when we obtain marketing approval for the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid, we intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products; however, we may not be able to obtain this product liability insurance on commercially reasonable terms. Large judgments have been awarded in class action lawsuits based on drugs that had unanticipated side effects. The cost of any product liability litigation or other proceedings, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial, particularly in light of the size of our business and financial resources. A product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could cause our stock price to decline and, if we are unsuccessful in defending such a claim or claims and the resulting judgments exceed our insurance coverage, our financial condition, business and prospects could be materially adversely affected.. We are subject to healthcare laws and regulations, which could expose us to criminal sanctions, civil penalties, contractual damages, reputational harm and diminished profits and future earnings.. Healthcare providers, physicians and others will play a primary role in the recommendation and prescription of the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid, if approved. Our future arrangements with third-party payors will expose us to broadly applicable fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations that may constrain the business or financial arrangements and relationships through which we market, sell and distribute the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid, if we obtain marketing approval. Restrictions under applicable federal and state healthcare laws and regulations include the following:. <U+0095> The federal healthcare anti-kickback statute prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce or reward either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service, for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid.    <U+0095> The federal False Claims Act imposes criminal and civil penalties, including those from civil whistleblower or qui tam actions, against individuals or entities for knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, to the federal government, claims for payment that are false or fraudulent or making a false statement to avoid, decrease, or conceal an obligation to pay money to the federal government.    <U+0095> The federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, imposes criminal and civil liability for executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program and also imposes. 44. Table of Contents. obligations, including mandatory contractual terms, with respect to safeguarding the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information.   <U+0095> The federal false statements statute prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services.    <U+0095> The federal transparency requirements under the PPACA require manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics, and medical supplies to report to the Department of Health and Human Services information related to physician payments and other transfers of value and physician ownership and investment interests.     <U+0095> Analogous state laws and regulations, such as state anti-kickback and false claims laws and transparency laws, may apply to sales or marketing arrangements and claims involving healthcare items or services reimbursed by non-governmental third-party payors, including private insurers, and some state laws require pharmaceutical companies to comply with the pharmaceutical industry's voluntary compliance guidelines and the relevant compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government in addition to requiring drug manufacturers to report information related to payments to physicians and other healthcare providers or marketing expenditures and drug pricing.. Ensuring that our future business arrangements with third parties comply with applicable healthcare laws and regulations could be costly. It is possible that governmental authorities will conclude that our business practices do not comply with current or future statutes, regulations or case law involving applicable fraud and abuse or other healthcare laws and regulations. If our operations, including anticipated activities to be conducted by our sales team, were found to be in violation of any of these laws or any other governmental regulations that may apply to us, we may be subject to significant civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages, fines and exclusion from government funded healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, any of which could substantially disrupt our operations. If any of the physicians or other providers or entities with whom we expect to do business is found not to be in compliance with applicable laws, they may be subject to criminal, civil or administrative sanctions, including exclusions from government funded healthcare programs.. Our internal computer systems, or those of our third-party clinical research organizations or other contractors or consultants, may fail or suffer security breaches, which could result in a material disruption of our the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid development programs.. Despite the implementation of security measures, our internal computer systems and those of our third-party clinical research organizations and other contractors and consultants are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, war, and telecommunication and electrical failures. While we have not experienced any such system failure, accident, or security breach to date, if such an event were to occur and cause interruptions in our operations, it could result in a material disruption of our programs. For example, the loss of clinical study data for the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid could result in delays in our regulatory approval efforts and significantly increase our costs to recover or reproduce the data. To the extent that any disruption or security breach results in a loss of or damage to our data or applications or other data or applications relating to our technology or product candidates, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we could incur liabilities and the further development of the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid could be delayed.. 45. Table of Contents. Comprehensive Tax Reform Legislation Could Adversely Affect Our Business And Financial Condition.. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law the \"Tax Cuts and Jobs Act\" (TCJA) that significantly reforms the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"). The TCJA, among other things, includes changes to U.S. federal tax rates, imposes significant additional limitations on the deductibility of interest, allows for the expensing of capital expenditures, and puts into effect the migration from a \"worldwide\" system of taxation to a territorial system. Our net deferred tax assets and liabilities have been revalued at the newly enacted U.S. corporate rate. We continue to examine the impact this tax reform legislation may have on our business. The impact of this tax reform is uncertain and could be adverse.. Risks Related to our Intellectual Property. If we are unable to adequately protect our proprietary technology or maintain issued patents which are sufficient to protect the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid, others could compete against us more directly, which would have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.. Our commercial success will depend in part on our success obtaining and maintaining issued patents and other intellectual property rights in the United States and elsewhere and protecting our proprietary technology. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology, competitors may be able to use our technologies and erode or negate any competitive advantage we may have, which could harm our business and ability to achieve profitability.. As of December 31, 2017, our patent estate, including patents we own, on a worldwide basis, included approximately 23 issued United States patents and 6 pending United States patent applications and 18 issued patents and 40 pending patent applications in other foreign jurisdictions. Of our worldwide patents and pending applications, only a subset relates to our small molecule program. Bempedoic acid is claimed in U.S. Patent No. 7,335,799 that is scheduled to expire in December 2025, which includes 711 days of patent term adjustment, and may be eligible for a patent term extension period of up to five years. U.S. Patent Nos. 9,000,041, 8,497,301 and 9,624,152 claim methods of using bempedoic acid. We also have a pending U.S. patent application directed to bempedoic acid. There are currently six issued patents and one pending application in countries outside the United States that relate to bempedoic acid.. A subset of this portfolio relates to our bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid and one or more statins. We have 17 pending applications outside the United States, and one inside the U.S., with claims directed to methods of treatment using the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination. Additionally, we own one pending U.S. application directed to the manufacturing of our bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill. We also have 17 pending applications outside the U.S., and one inside the U.S., with claims directed to methods of treatment using a fixed dose combination of bempedoic acid and one or more statins.. We may not have identified all patents, published applications or published literature that affect our business either by blocking our ability to commercialize our drug candidates, by preventing the patentability of one or more aspects of our drug candidates to us or our licensors or co-owners, or by covering the same or similar technologies that may affect our ability to market our drug candidates. For example, we (or the licensor of a drug candidate to us) may not have conducted a patent clearance search to identify potentially obstructing third party patents. Moreover, patent applications in the United States are maintained in confidence for up to 18 months after their filing. In some cases, however, patent applications remain confidential in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or the U.S. PTO, for the entire time prior to issuance as a U.S. patent. Patent applications filed in countries outside of the United States are not typically published until at least 18 months from their first filing date. Similarly, publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual. 46. Table of Contents. discoveries. We cannot be certain that we or our licensors or co-owners were the first to invent, or the first to file, patent applications covering our drug candidates. We also may not know if our competitors filed patent applications for technology covered by our pending applications or if we were the first to invent the technology that is the subject of our patent applications. Competitors may have filed patent applications or received patents and may obtain additional patents and proprietary rights that block or compete with our patents.. Others may have filed patent applications or received patents that conflict with patents or patent applications that we own, have filed or have licensed, either by claiming the same methods, compounds or uses or by claiming methods, compounds or uses that could dominate those owned by or licensed to us. In addition, we may not be aware of all patents or patent applications that may affect our ability to make, use or sell any of our drug candidates. Any conflicts resulting from third-party patent applications and patents could affect our ability to obtain the necessary patent protection for our products or processes. If other companies or entities obtain patents with conflicting claims, we may be required to obtain licenses to these patents or to develop or obtain alternative technology. We may not be able to obtain any such licenses on acceptable terms or at all. Any failure to obtain such licenses could delay or prevent us from using discovery-related technology to pursue the development or commercialization of our drug candidates, which would adversely affect our business.. We cannot assure you that any of our patents have, or that any of our pending patent applications will mature into issued patents that will include, claims with a scope sufficient to protect the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid or any other product candidates. Others have developed technologies that may be related or competitive to our approach, and may have filed or may file patent applications and may have received or may receive patents that may overlap or conflict with our patent applications, either by claiming the same methods or formulations or by claiming subject matter that could dominate our patent position. The patent positions of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, including our patent position, involve complex legal and factual questions, and, therefore, the issuance, scope, validity and enforceability of any patent claims that we may obtain cannot be predicted with certainty. Patents, if issued, may be challenged, deemed unenforceable, invalidated, or circumvented. U.S. patents and patent applications may also be subject to interference proceedings, ex parte reexamination, inter partes review and post-grant review proceedings, supplemental examination and may be challenged in district court. Patents granted in certain other countries may be subjected to opposition or comparable proceedings lodged in various national and regional patent offices. These proceedings could result in either loss of the patent or denial of the patent application or loss or reduction in the scope of one or more of the claims of the patent or patent application. In addition, such interference, re- examination, opposition, post-grant review, inter partes review, supplemental examination or revocation proceedings may be costly. Thus, any patents that we may own or exclusively license may not provide any protection against competitors. Furthermore, an adverse decision in an interference proceeding can result in a third-party receiving the patent right sought by us, which in turn could affect our ability to develop, market or otherwise commercialize the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid.. Furthermore, the issuance of a patent, while presumed valid and enforceable, is not conclusive as to its validity or its enforceability and it may not provide us with adequate proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar products. Competitors may also be able to design around our patents. Other parties may develop and obtain patent protection for more effective technologies, designs or methods. We may not be able to prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of our technical knowledge or trade secrets by consultants, vendors, former employees and current employees. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and we may encounter significant problems in protecting our proprietary rights in these countries. If these developments were to occur, they could have a material adverse effect on our sales.. 47. Table of Contents. Our ability to enforce our patent rights depends on our ability to detect infringement. It is difficult to detect infringers who do not advertise the components that are used in their products. Moreover, it may be difficult or impossible to obtain evidence of infringement in a competitor's or potential competitor's product. Any litigation to enforce or defend our patent rights, if any, even if we were to prevail, could be costly and time-consuming and would divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. We may not prevail in any lawsuits that we initiate and the damages or other remedies awarded if we were to prevail may not be commercially meaningful.. In addition, proceedings to enforce or defend our patents could put our patents at risk of being invalidated, held unenforceable, or interpreted narrowly. Such proceedings could also provoke third parties to assert claims against us, including that some or all of the claims in one or more of our patents are invalid or otherwise unenforceable. If, in any proceeding, a court invalidated or found unenforceable our patents covering the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid, our financial position and results of operations would be materially and adversely impacted. In addition, if a court found that valid, enforceable patents held by third parties covered the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid, our financial position and results of operations would also be materially and adversely impacted.. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain, and we cannot ensure that:. <U+0095> any of our patents, or any of our pending patent applications, if issued, will include claims having a scope sufficient to protect the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid;    <U+0095> any of our pending patent applications will result in issued patents;    <U+0095> we will be able to successfully commercialize the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid, if approved, before our relevant patents expire;    <U+0095> we were the first to make the inventions covered by each of our patents and pending patent applications;     <U+0095> we were the first to file patent applications for these inventions;    <U+0095> others will not develop similar or alternative technologies that do not infringe our patents;    <U+0095> any of our patents will be valid and enforceable;    <U+0095> any patents issued to us will provide a basis for an exclusive market for our commercially viable products, will provide us with any competitive advantages or will not be challenged by third parties;    <U+0095> we will develop additional proprietary technologies or product candidates that are separately patentable; or     <U+0095> that our commercial activities or products, or those of our licensors, will not infringe upon the patents of others.. We rely upon unpatented trade secrets, unpatented know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position, which we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our employees and our collaborators and consultants. We also have agreements with our employees and selected consultants that obligate them to assign their inventions to us. It is possible that technology relevant to our business will be independently developed by a person that is not a party to such an agreement. Furthermore, if the employees and consultants who are parties to these agreements breach or violate the terms of these agreements, we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach or violation, and we could lose our trade secrets through such breaches. 48. Table of Contents. or violations. Further, our trade secrets could otherwise become known or be independently discovered by our competitors.. If we are not able to adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information, the value of our technology and products could be significantly diminished.. We rely on trade secrets to protect our proprietary technologies, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. We rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers, contract manufacturers, vendors and other advisors to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, we cannot guarantee that we have executed these agreements with each party that may have or have had access to our trade secrets.. Moreover, because we acquired certain rights from Pfizer, we must rely on Pfizer's practices, and those of its predecessors, with regard to parties that may have had access to our trade secrets related thereto before our incorporation. Any party with whom we or they have executed such an agreement may breach that agreement and disclose our proprietary information, including our trade secrets, and we may not be able to obtain adequate remedies for such breaches. Enforcing a claim that a party illegally disclosed or misappropriated a trade secret is difficult, expensive and time-consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, some courts inside and outside the United States are less willing or unwilling to protect trade secrets. If any of our trade secrets were to be lawfully obtained or independently developed by a competitor, we would have no right to prevent them, or those to whom they disclose such trade secrets, from using that technology or information to compete with us. If any of our trade secrets were to be disclosed to or independently developed by a competitor or other third-party, our competitive position would be harmed.. We may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may prevent or delay our product development efforts and stop us from commercializing or increase the costs of commercializing the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid, if approved.. Our success will depend in part on our ability to operate without infringing the intellectual property and proprietary rights of third parties. We cannot assure you that our business, products and methods do not or will not infringe the patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties.. The pharmaceutical industry is characterized by extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. Other parties may allege that the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid or the use of our technologies infringes patent claims or other intellectual property rights held by them or that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. Patent and other types of intellectual property litigation can involve complex factual and legal questions, and their outcome is uncertain. Any claim relating to intellectual property infringement that is successfully asserted against us may require us to pay substantial damages, including treble damages and attorney's fees if we are found to be willfully infringing another party's patents, for past use of the asserted intellectual property and royalties and other consideration going forward if we are forced to take a license. In addition, if any such claim were successfully asserted against us and we could not obtain such a license, we may be forced to stop or delay developing, manufacturing, selling or otherwise commercializing the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid.. Even if we are successful in these proceedings, we may incur substantial costs and divert management time and attention in pursuing these proceedings, which could have a material adverse effect on us. If we are unable to avoid infringing the patent rights of others, we may be required to seek a license, defend an infringement action or challenge the validity of the patents in court, or. 49. Table of Contents. redesign our products. Patent litigation is costly and time consuming. We may not have sufficient resources to bring these actions to a successful conclusion. In addition, intellectual property litigation or claims could force us to do one or more of the following:. <U+0095> cease developing, selling or otherwise commercializing the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid;     <U+0095> pay substantial damages for past use of the asserted intellectual property;    <U+0095> obtain a license from the holder of the asserted intellectual property, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all; and     <U+0095> redesign, or rename in the case of trademark claims, the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid to avoid infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties, which may not be possible and, even if possible, could be costly and time-consuming.. Any of these risks coming to fruition could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.. Changes in U.S. patent law could diminish the value of patents in general, thereby impairing our ability to protect our products.. The United States has enacted and is currently implementing the America Invents Act of 2011, wide-ranging patent reform legislation. The United States Supreme Court has ruled on several patent cases in recent years, either narrowing the scope of patent protection available in certain circumstances or weakening the rights of patent owners in certain situations. In addition to increasing uncertainty with regard to our ability to obtain patents in the future, this combination of events has created uncertainty with respect to the value of patents, once obtained. Depending on decisions by the U.S. Congress, the federal courts, and the U.S. PTO, the laws and regulations governing patents could change in unpredictable ways that would weaken our ability to obtain new patents or to enforce our existing patents and patents that we might obtain in the future.. Obtaining and maintaining our patent protection depends on compliance with various procedural, document submission, fee payment and other requirements imposed by governmental patent agencies, and our patent protection could be reduced or eliminated for non-compliance with these requirements.. The U.S. PTO and various foreign governmental patent agencies require compliance with a number of procedural, documentary, fee payment and other provisions during the patent process. There are situations in which noncompliance can result in abandonment or lapse of a patent or patent application, resulting in partial or complete loss of patent rights in the relevant jurisdiction. In such an event, competitors might be able to enter the market earlier than would otherwise have been the case.. We could become dependent on licensed intellectual property. If we were to lose our rights to licensed intellectual property, we may not be able to continue developing or commercializing the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid or other product candidates, if approved.. In the future, we may enter into license(s) to third-party intellectual property that are necessary or useful to our business. Such license agreement(s) will likely impose various obligations upon us, and our licensor(s) have or may have the right to terminate the license thereunder in the event of a material breach or, in some cases, at will. Future licensor(s) may allege that we have breached our license agreement with them or decide to terminate our license at will, and accordingly seek to terminate our license. If successful, this could result in our loss of the right to use the licensed intellectual property, which could materially adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize a product candidate or product, if approved, as well as harm our competitive business position and our business prospects.. 50. Table of Contents. We do not seek to protect our intellectual property rights in all jurisdictions throughout the world and we may not be able to adequately enforce our intellectual property rights even in the jurisdictions where we seek protection.. Filing, prosecuting and defending patents on product candidates in all countries and jurisdictions throughout the world would be prohibitively expensive, and our intellectual property rights in some countries outside the United States could be less extensive than those in the United States. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as federal and state laws in the United States. Consequently, we may not be able to prevent third parties from practicing our inventions in all countries outside the United States, or from selling or importing products made using our inventions in and into the United States or other jurisdictions. Competitors may use our technologies in jurisdictions where we have not obtained patent protection to develop their own products and further, may export otherwise infringing products to territories where we have patent protection, but enforcement is not as strong as that in the United States. These products may compete with our products and our patents or other intellectual property rights may not be effective or sufficient to prevent them from competing.. Many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions. The legal systems of certain countries, particularly certain developing countries, do not favor the enforcement of patents and other intellectual property protection, particularly those relating to emerging pharmaceuticals, which could make it difficult for us to stop the infringement of our patents or marketing of competing products in violation of our proprietary rights generally. Proceedings to enforce our patent rights in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial costs and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business, could put our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly, could put our patent applications at risk of not issuing and could provoke third parties to assert claims against us. We may not prevail in any lawsuits that we initiate and the damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may not be commercially meaningful. Accordingly, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights around the world may be inadequate to obtain a significant commercial advantage from the intellectual property that we develop or license.. We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that we or our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers.. Our employees have been previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although we are not aware of any claims currently pending against us, we may be subject to claims that these employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of the former employers of our employees. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. If we fail in defending such claims, in addition to paying money claims, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. A loss of key personnel or their work product could hamper or prevent our ability to commercialize the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid, which would materially adversely affect our commercial development efforts.. 51. Table of Contents. Risks Related to our Dependence on Third Parties. We will be unable to directly control all aspects of our clinical studies due to our reliance on CROs and other third parties that assist us in conducting clinical studies.. We relied on CROs in our prior clinical studies, and will continue to rely on CROs to conduct our ongoing global pivotal Phase 3 clinical studies, our CLEAR Outcomes CVOT and our pivotal Phase 3 1002FDC-053 clinical study, as well as any future clinical studies we may undertake. As a result, we will have less direct control over the conduct, timing and completion of these clinical studies and the management of data developed through the clinical studies than would be the case if we were relying entirely upon our own staff. Communicating with outside parties can also be challenging, potentially leading to mistakes as well as difficulties in coordinating activities. Outside parties may:. <U+0095> have staffing difficulties;    <U+0095> fail to comply with contractual obligations;    <U+0095> experience regulatory compliance issues;    <U+0095> undergo changes in priorities or become financially distressed; or    <U+0095> form relationships with other entities, some of which may be our competitors.. These factors may materially adversely affect the willingness or ability of third parties to conduct our clinical studies and may subject us to unexpected cost increases that are beyond our control.. Moreover, the FDA requires us to comply with standards, commonly referred to as Good Clinical Practices, for conducting, recording, and reporting the results of clinical studies to assure that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the rights, integrity and confidentiality of clinical study participants are protected. Our reliance on third parties that we do not control does not relieve us of these responsibilities and requirements.. Problems with the timeliness or quality of the work of any CRO may lead us to seek to terminate our relationship with any such CRO and use an alternative service provider. Making this change may be costly and may delay our clinical studies, and contractual restrictions may make such a change difficult or impossible to effect. If we must replace any CRO that is conducting our clinical studies, our clinical studies may have to be suspended until we find another CRO that offers comparable services. The time that it takes us to find alternative organizations may cause a delay in the commercialization of the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid or may cause us to incur significant expenses to replicate data that may be lost. Although we do not believe that any CRO on which we may rely will offer services that are not available elsewhere, it may be difficult to find a replacement organization that can conduct our clinical studies in an acceptable manner and at an acceptable cost. Any delay in or inability to complete our clinical studies could significantly compromise our ability to secure regulatory approval of the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid and preclude our ability to commercialize the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid, thereby limiting or preventing our ability to generate revenue from its sales.. We rely completely on third-party suppliers to manufacture our clinical drug supplies for the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid, and we intend to rely on third parties to produce commercial supplies of the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid and preclinical, clinical and commercial supplies of any future product candidate.. We do not currently have, nor do we plan to acquire, the infrastructure or capability to internally manufacture our clinical drug supply of the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid, or any future product candidates, for use in the conduct of our preclinical studies and clinical studies, and we lack the internal resources and the capability to manufacture any product. 52. Table of Contents. candidates on a clinical or commercial scale. In addition, we have no control over the production of ezetimibe for the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill. The facilities used by our contract manufacturers to manufacture the active pharmaceutical ingredient and final drug for bempedoic acid, or any future product candidates, must be approved by the FDA and other comparable foreign regulatory agencies pursuant to inspections that would be conducted after we submit our NDA or relevant foreign regulatory submission to the applicable regulatory agency.. We do not control the manufacturing process of, and are completely dependent on, our contract manufacturers to comply with current Good Manufacturing Practices for manufacture of both active drug substances and finished drug products. If our contract manufacturers cannot successfully manufacture material that conforms to our specifications and the strict regulatory requirements of the FDA or applicable foreign regulatory agencies, they will not be able to secure and/or maintain regulatory approval for their manufacturing facilities. In addition, we have no direct control over our contract manufacturers' ability to maintain adequate quality control, quality assurance and qualified personnel. Furthermore, all of our contract manufacturers are engaged with other companies to supply and/or manufacture materials or products for such companies, which exposes our manufacturers to regulatory risks for the production of such materials and products. As a result, failure to satisfy the regulatory requirements for the production of those materials and products may affect the regulatory clearance of our contract manufacturers' facilities generally. If the FDA or a comparable foreign regulatory agency does not approve these facilities for the manufacture of our product candidates or if it withdraws its approval in the future, we may need to find alternative manufacturing facilities, which would adversely impact our ability to develop, obtain regulatory approval for or market our product candidates.. If we do not establish successful collaborations, we may have to alter our development and commercialization plans for the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid.. Our drug development programs and commercialization plans for the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid will require substantial additional cash to fund expenses. We may develop and initially commercialize the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid in the United States without a partner. However, in order to pursue the broader statin resistant market in the United States, we may also enter into a partnership or co-promotion arrangement with an established pharmaceutical company that has a larger sales force and we may enter into collaborative arrangements to develop and commercialize the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid outside of the United States. We will face significant competition in seeking appropriate collaborators and these collaboration agreements are complex and time-consuming to negotiate. We may not be able to negotiate collaborations on acceptable terms, or at all. If that were to occur, we may have to curtail the development or delay commercialization of the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid in certain geographies, reduce the scope of our sales or marketing activities, reduce the scope of our commercialization plans, or increase our expenditures and undertake development or commercialization activities at our own expense. If we elect to increase our expenditures to fund development or commercialization activities outside of the United States on our own, we may need to obtain additional capital, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all.. If a collaborative partner terminates or fails to perform its obligations under an agreement with us, the commercialization of the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid could be delayed or terminated.. We are not currently party to any collaborative arrangements for the commercialization of the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid or similar arrangements, although we may pursue such arrangements before any commercialization of the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe. 53. Table of Contents. combination pill or bempedoic acid outside of the United States or to further commercialize the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid in the broader statin resistant market in the United States, if approved. If we are successful in entering into collaborative arrangements for the commercialization of the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid or similar arrangements and any of our collaborative partners does not devote sufficient time and resources to a collaboration arrangement with us, we may not realize the potential commercial benefits of the arrangement, and our results of operations may be materially adversely affected. In addition, if any such future collaboration partner were to breach or terminate its arrangements with us, the commercialization of the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid could be delayed, curtailed or terminated because we may not have sufficient financial resources or capabilities to continue commercialization of the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid on our own in such locations.. Much of the potential revenue from future collaborations may consist of contingent payments, such as payments for achieving regulatory milestones or royalties payable on sales of drugs. The milestone and royalty revenue that we may receive under these collaborations will depend upon our collaborators' ability to successfully develop, introduce, market and sell new products. In addition, collaborators may decide to enter into arrangements with third parties to commercialize products developed under collaborations using our technologies, which could reduce the milestone and royalty revenue that we may receive, if any. Future collaboration partners may fail to develop or effectively commercialize products using our products or technologies because they:. <U+0095> decide not to devote the necessary resources due to internal constraints, such as limited personnel with the requisite expertise, limited cash resources or specialized equipment limitations, or the belief that other drug development programs may have a higher likelihood of obtaining marketing approval or may potentially generate a greater return on investment;    <U+0095> decide to pursue other technologies or develop other product candidates, either on their own or in collaboration with others, including our competitors, to treat the same diseases targeted by our own collaborative programs;    <U+0095> do not have sufficient resources necessary to carry the product candidate through clinical development, marketing approval and commercialization; or    <U+0095> cannot obtain the necessary marketing approvals.. Competition may negatively impact a partner's focus on and commitment to the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid and, as a result, could delay or otherwise negatively affect the commercialization of the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid outside of the United States or in the broader statin resistant market in the United States. If future collaboration partners fail to develop or effectively commercialize the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid for any of these reasons, our sales of the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid, if approved, may be limited, which would have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.. Risks Related to General Business, Employee Matters and Managing Growth. We will need to develop and expand our company, and we may encounter difficulties in managing this development and expansion, which could disrupt our operations.. We expect that we will continue to increase our workforce and the scope of our operations. To manage our anticipated development and expansion, we must continue to implement and improve our managerial, operational and financial systems, expand our facilities and continue to recruit and train additional qualified personnel. Also, our management may need to divert a disproportionate amount of its attention away from its day-to-day activities and devote a substantial amount of time to managing. 54. Table of Contents. these development activities. Due to our limited resources, we may not be able to effectively manage the expansion of our operations or recruit and train additional qualified personnel. This may result in weaknesses in our infrastructure; or give rise to operational mistakes, loss of business opportunities, loss of employees and reduced productivity among remaining employees. The physical expansion of our operations may lead to significant costs and may divert financial resources from other projects, such as the development of the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid. If our management is unable to effectively manage our expected development and expansion, our expenses may increase more than anticipated, our ability to generate or increase our revenue could be reduced and we may not be able to implement our business strategy. Our future financial performance and our ability to commercialize the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid, if approved, and compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to effectively manage the future development and expansion of our company.. Our future success depends on our ability to retain members of our senior management team, and to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel.. We are highly dependent on members of our senior management team. We have entered into employment agreements with these individuals, but any employee may terminate his or her employment with us. Although we do not have any reason to believe that we will lose the services of these individuals in the foreseeable future, the loss of the services of these individuals might impede the achievement of our research, development and commercialization objectives. We rely on consultants and advisors, including scientific and clinical advisors, to assist us in formulating our development and commercialization strategy. Our consultants and advisors may be employed by employers other than us and may have commitments under consulting or advisory contracts with other entities that may limit their availability to us. Recruiting and retaining qualified scientific personnel and sales and marketing personnel will also be critical to our success. We may not be able to attract and retain these personnel on acceptable terms given the competition among numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for similar personnel. We also experience competition for the hiring of scientific personnel from universities and research institutions. Failure to succeed in clinical studies may make it more challenging to recruit and retain qualified scientific personnel.. Our company lacks experience commercializing products, which may have a material adverse effect on our business.. We will need to transition from a company with a development focus to a company capable of supporting commercial activities. We may be unsuccessful in making such a transition. Our company has never filed an NDA and has not yet demonstrated an ability to obtain marketing approval for or commercialize a product candidate. Therefore, our clinical development and regulatory approval process may involve more inherent risk, take longer, and cost more than it would if we were a company with a more significant operating history and had experience obtaining marketing approval for and commercializing a product candidate.. Our employees may engage in misconduct or other improper activities, including violating applicable regulatory standards and requirements or engaging in insider trading, which could significantly harm our business.. We are exposed to the risk of employee fraud or other misconduct. Misconduct by employees could include intentional failures to comply with the regulations of the FDA and applicable non-U.S. regulators, provide accurate information to the FDA and applicable non-U.S. regulators, comply with healthcare fraud and abuse laws and regulations in the United States and abroad, report financial information or data accurately or disclose unauthorized activities to us. In particular, sales, marketing and business arrangements in the healthcare industry are subject to extensive laws and regulations. 55. Table of Contents. intended to prevent fraud, misconduct, kickbacks, self-dealing and other abusive practices. These laws and regulations restrict or prohibit a wide range of pricing, discounting, marketing and promotion, sales commission, customer incentive programs and other business arrangements. Employee misconduct could also involve the improper use of, including trading on, information obtained in the course of clinical studies, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious harm to our reputation. We have adopted a code of conduct, but it is not always possible to identify and deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may be ineffective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses or in protecting us from governmental investigations or other actions or lawsuits stemming from a failure to comply with these laws or regulations. If any such actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights, those actions could have a significant impact on our business, including the imposition of significant fines or other sanctions.. In order to satisfy our obligations as a publicly traded company, we may need to hire qualified accounting and financial personnel with appropriate public company experience.. As a relatively new public company, we need to establish and maintain effective disclosure and financial controls and our corporate governance practices that we have adopted. We may need to hire additional accounting and financial personnel with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge, and it may be difficult to recruit and maintain such personnel. Even if we are able to hire appropriate personnel, our existing operating expenses and operations will be impacted by the direct costs of their employment and the indirect consequences related to the diversion of management resources from product development efforts.. Risks Related to our Financial Position and Capital Requirements. We have not generated any revenue from the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid and may never be profitable.. Our ability to become profitable depends upon our ability to generate revenue. To date, we have not generated any revenue from the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid, and we do not know when, or if, we will generate any revenue. We do not expect to generate significant revenue unless and until we obtain marketing approval of, and begin to sell, the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid. Our ability to generate revenue depends on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, our ability to:. <U+0095> successfully complete our CLEAR Outcomes CVOT;    <U+0095> successfully complete our global pivotal Phase 3 LDL-C lowering program for bempedoic acid;    <U+0095> successfully complete our pivotal Phase 3 clinical study for the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill;     <U+0095> commercialize the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid, if approved, by developing a sales force or entering into collaborations with third parties; and    <U+0095> achieve market acceptance of the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid in the medical community and with third-party payors.. Absent our entering into a collaboration or partnership agreement, we expect to incur significant sales and marketing costs as we prepare to commercialize the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid. Even if we initiate and successfully complete our clinical program of the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid and achieve all clinical endpoints and the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill and bempedoic acid is approved for commercial sale, and despite expending these costs, the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid. 56. Table of Contents. may not be a commercially successful drug. We may not achieve profitability soon after generating product sales, if ever. If we are unable to generate product revenue, we will not become profitable and may be unable to continue operations without continued funding.. Raising additional capital may cause dilution to our existing stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish rights.. We may seek additional capital through a combination of private and public equity offerings, debt financings, royalty-based financings, collaborations and strategic and licensing arrangements. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of common stock or securities convertible or exchangeable into common stock, your ownership interest in our company will be diluted. In addition, the terms of any such securities may include liquidation or other preferences that materially adversely affect your rights as a stockholder. Debt financing, if available, would increase our fixed payment obligations. Debt or royalty-based financings may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends. If we raise additional funds through collaboration, strategic partnerships and licensing arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to the bempedoic acid / ezetimibe combination pill or bempedoic acid, our intellectual property, future revenue streams or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us.. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards may be subject to limitation.. At December 31, 2017, we had United States federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $347.4 million and state net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $327.8 million. Under Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, if a corporation undergoes an \"ownership change,\" the corporation's ability to use its pre-change net operating loss carryforwards and other pre-change tax attributes, such as research tax credits, to offset its post-change income may be limited. In general, an \"ownership change\" will occur if there is a cumulative change in our ownership by \"5-percent shareholders\" that exceeds 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period. Similar rules may apply under state tax laws. As a result of prior equity issuances and other transactions in our stock, we have previously experienced \"ownership changes\" under section 382 of the Code and comparable state tax laws. We may also experience ownership changes in the future as a result of future transactions in our stock. As a result, if we earn net taxable income, our ability to use our pre-change net operating loss carryforwards or other pre-change tax attributes to offset United States federal and state taxable income is subject to limitations. The effect of the enactment of the TCJA was to reduce our corporate statutory income tax rate from 34% to 21%. This may cause a reduction in the economic benefit of our net operating loss carryforwards and other deferred tax assets available to the Company.. Complying with public company reporting and other obligations may strain our financial and managerial resources. Additionally, we are obligated to develop and maintain proper and effective internal control over financial reporting, but we may not complete our analysis of our internal control over financial reporting in a timely manner or these internal controls may not be determined to be effective, either of which may harm investor confidence in us and the value of our common stock.. As a public company, we are required to comply with applicable provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as other rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC and the NASDAQ Stock Market LLC, or NASDAQ, which results in significant continuing legal, accounting, administrative and other costs and expenses. The listing requirements of The NASDAQ Global Market require that we satisfy certain corporate governance requirements relating to director independence, distributing annual and interim reports, stockholder meetings, approvals and voting, soliciting proxies, conflicts of interest. 57. Table of Contents. and a code of conduct. Our management and other personnel need to devote a substantial amount of time to ensure that we comply with all of these requirements.. We are subject to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Section 404, and the related rules of the SEC that generally require our management and independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Section 404 requires an annual management assessment, as well as an opinion from our independent registered public accounting firm, on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting.. We are in the costly and challenging process of evaluating and testing our internal controls for the purpose of providing the reports required by these rules. We may not be able to complete our evaluation, testing and any required remediation in a timely fashion. During the course of our review and testing, we may identify deficiencies and be unable to remediate them before we must provide the required reports. Furthermore, if we have a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, we may not detect errors on a timely basis and our financial statements may be materially misstated. We or our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting, which could harm our operating results, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and cause the trading price of our stock to fall. In addition, we are required to timely file accurate quarterly and annual reports with the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act, as amended. In order to report our results of operations and financial statements on an accurate and timely basis, we depend on CROs to provide timely and accurate notice of their costs to us. Any failure to report our financial results on an accurate and timely basis could result in sanctions, lawsuits, delisting of our shares from The NASDAQ Global Market or other adverse consequences that would materially harm our business.. Risks Related to the Securities Markets and Investment in our Common Stock. Our principal stockholders and management own a significant percentage of our stock and will be able to exert significant control over matters subject to stockholder approval.. At December 31, 2017, our executive officers, directors and entities affiliated with certain of our directors beneficially owned approximately 17.7% of our outstanding voting common stock. These stockholders have the ability to influence us through their ownership position. These stockholders may be able to determine the outcome of all matters requiring stockholder approval. For example, these stockholders may be able to control elections of directors, amendments of our organizational documents, or approval of any merger, sale of assets, or other major corporate transaction. This may prevent or discourage unsolicited acquisition proposals or offers for our common stock that you may feel are in your best interest as one of our stockholders.. We may be at an increased risk of securities class action litigation.. Historically, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following a decline in the market price of its securities. This risk is especially relevant for us because biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies have experienced significant stock price volatility in recent years. For example, a purported securities class action lawsuit was filed in January 2016 naming us and certain of our officers as defendants. In December 2016, the court granted our motion to dismiss with prejudice and entered judgment in our favor. In May 2017, the court denied plaintiffs' motion to alter or amend that judgment. On June 19, 2017, plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal to the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals and on September 14, 2017, they filed their opening brief in support of the appeal. The appeal was fully briefed on December 7, 2017. Additionally, in December 2016, a purported derivative action was filed in Delaware against certain of our directors and officers. Any lawsuit to which we or our directors or officers are a party, with or without merit, may result in an unfavorable judgment. We also. 58. Table of Contents. may decide to settle lawsuits on unfavorable terms. Any such negative outcome could result in payments of substantial damages or fines, damage to our reputation or adverse changes to our offerings or business practices. Any of these results could adversely affect our business. In addition, defending claims is costly and can impose a significant burden on our management. This proceeding and any others in which we may become involved could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which could harm our business.. If securities or industry analysts cease publishing research or reports or publish misleading, inaccurate or unfavorable research about us, our business or our market, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us, our business, our market or our competitors. We only recently started receiving research coverage by securities and industry analysts. If one or more of the industry analysts who covers us downgrades our stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, or provides more favorable relative recommendations about our competitors, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of us or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, even one that may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management.. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may delay or prevent an acquisition of us or a change in our management. These provisions include a classified board of directors, a prohibition on actions by written consent of our stockholders and the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which limits the ability of stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock to merge or combine with us. Although we believe these provisions collectively provide for an opportunity to obtain greater value for stockholders by requiring potential acquirors to negotiate with our board of directors, they would apply even if an offer rejected by our board were considered beneficial by some stockholders. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management.. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock.. We have never declared or paid any cash dividend on our common stock and do not currently intend to do so in the foreseeable future. We currently anticipate that we will retain future earnings for the development, operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Therefore, the success of an investment in shares of our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in their value. There is no guarantee that shares of our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which you purchased them. Additionally, our ability to pay dividends on our common stock is limited by restrictions under the terms of our Credit Facility with Oxford Finance LLC."
