[1] "Item 1A.RISK FACTORS. <U+FEFF>. The following factors identified by the Company's management represent significant potential risks that the Company faces in its operations.. <U+FEFF>. The Company's Business May Be Adversely Affected by Conditions in the Financial Markets and Economic Conditions Generally. The Company's financial performance generally, and in particular the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans, is highly dependent upon the business environment in the markets where the Company operates, in Western New York and in the United States as a whole. A favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors, economic growth, efficient capital markets, low inflation, high business and investor confidence, and strong business earnings. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by: declines in economic growth, declines in housing and real estate valuations, business activity or investor or business confidence; limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital; increases in inflation or interest rates; natural disasters; or a combination of these or other factors.. Economic conditions in the United States remained positive in 2017, which included national and local unemployment rates of 4.1% and 5.6%, respectively, as of December 31, 2017.  Although conditions in Western New York and the United States are currently good, a slowdown of the economy could occur in the future.  The last recession ended in 2009 and has been followed by 102 months of economic expansion.  In the post-World War II era, the average period of economic expansion has been 57 months.  This could indicate that we are in a longer than normal period of economic expansion and that there is increased risk of recession.   Even though the Company is a community institution servicing a local market, in a global economy, any deteriorating conditions in other parts of the world could affect the United States economically.  Such conditions could materially adversely affect the credit quality of the Company's loans, and therefore, the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. <U+FEFF>. Commercial Real Estate and Commercial Business Loans Expose the Company to Increased Credit Risks. <U+FEFF>. At December 31, 2017, the Company's portfolio of commercial real estate loans totaled $627 million, or 59% of total loans outstanding, and the Company's portfolio of commercial and industrial (\"C&I\") loans totaled $232 million, or 22% of total loans outstanding.  The Company plans to continue to emphasize the origination of commercial loans as they generally earn a higher rate of interest than other loan products offered by the Bank.  However, commercial loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one-to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of commercial real estate and C&I loans often depends on the successful operations and the income stream of the borrowers.  Commercial mortgages are collateralized by real property while C&I loans are typically secured by business assets such as equipment and accounts receivable.  Commercial loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one-to four-family residential mortgage loans.  Also, many of the Company's commercial borrowers have more than one commercial real estate or C&I loan outstanding with the Company.  Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose the Company to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one-to four-family residential mortgage loan.  Commercial real estate loans in non-accrual status at December 31, 2017 were $8.9 million, compared with $6.1 million at December 31, 2016.  C&I loans in non-accrual status at December 31, 2017 were $1.7 million, compared with $3.1 million at December 31, 2016.  Increases in the delinquency levels of commercial real estate and C&I loans could result in an increase in non-performing loans and the provision for loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. 14. Table of Contents. <U+FEFF>. Continuing Concentration of Loans in the Company's Primary Market Area May Increase the Company's Risk. <U+FEFF>. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, the Company provides banking and financial services to customers located primarily in western New York State (\"WNY\").  Therefore, the Company's success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in WNY.  The Company's business lending and marketing strategies focus on loans to small and medium-sized businesses in this geographic region.  Moreover, the Company's assets are heavily concentrated in mortgages on properties located in WNY.  Accordingly, the Company's business and operations are vulnerable to downturns in the economy of WNY.  The concentration of the Company's loans in this geographic region subjects the Company to the risk that a downturn in the economy or recession in this region could result in a decrease in loan originations and increases in delinquencies and foreclosures, which would more greatly affect the Company than if the Company's lending were more geographically diversified.  In addition, the Company may suffer losses if there is a decline in the value of properties underlying the Company's mortgage loans which would have a material adverse impact on the Company's operations.. <U+FEFF>. In the Event the Company's Allowance for Loan Losses is Not Sufficient to Cover Actual Loan Losses, the Company's Earnings Could Decrease. <U+FEFF>. The Company maintains an allowance for loan losses in order to capture the probable losses inherent in its loan portfolio.  There is a risk that the Company may experience significant loan losses which could exceed the allowance for loan losses.  In determining the amount of the Company's recorded allowance, the Company makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of its loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of its borrowers, the effect of changes in the local economy on the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans, the effects on the Company's loan portfolio of current economic indicators and their probable impact on borrowers, and the Company's loan quality reviews.  The emphasis on the origination of commercial real estate and C&I loans is a significant factor in evaluating the allowance for loan losses.  As the Company continues to increase the amount of these loans in the portfolio, additional or increased provisions for loan losses may be necessary and would adversely affect the results of operations.  In addition, bank regulators periodically review the Company's loan portfolio and credit underwriting procedures, as well as its allowance for loan losses, and may require the Company to increase its provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs.  At December 31, 2017, the Company had a gross loan portfolio of $1.1 billion and the allowance for loan losses was $14.0 million, which represented 1.32% of the total amount of gross loans.  If the Company's assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect or bank regulators require the Company to increase its provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, the Company may have to increase its allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs which could have an adverse effect on the Company's operating results and financial condition.  Additionally, there can be no assurances that the Company's allowance for loan losses will be adequate to protect the Company against loan losses that it may incur.. <U+FEFF>. Changes in Interest Rates Could Adversely Affect the Company's Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition. <U+FEFF>. The Company's results of operations and financial condition are significantly affected by changes in interest rates.  The Company's results of operations depend substantially on its net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on its interest-earning assets and the interest expense paid on its interest-bearing liabilities.  Because the Company's interest-bearing liabilities generally re-price or mature more quickly than its interest-earning assets, an increase in interest rates could result in a decrease in its net interest income.. <U+FEFF>. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of the Company's interest-earning assets, and in particular, the Company's securities portfolio.  Generally, the value of securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates.  At December 31, 2017, the Company's securities available for sale totaled $144 million.  Net unrealized losses on securities available for sale amounted to $1.0 million, net of tax.  Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale could have an adverse effect on stockholders' equity or earnings.. <U+FEFF>. The Company also is subject to reinvestment risk associated with changes in interest rates.  Changes in interest rates may affect the average life of loans and mortgage-related securities.  Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance to reduce borrowing costs.  Under these circumstances, the Company is subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that it is unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on existing loans and securities.  Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans.. <U+FEFF>. As of December 31, 2017, the FRB had raised the targeted federal funds rate a total of 1.00% since December 2016.  These actions benefited the Company's net interest margin in 2017 due to the re-pricing of the variable rate loan portfolio.  However, rising interest rates have begun to put pressure on funding costs.  The cost of the Company's interest-bearing liabilities increased in the second half of 2017 as the Company's reliance on time deposits and other borrowings increased and low-cost savings deposit growth lagged.  There is risk that funding costs could continue to increase and that margin compression could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. <U+FEFF>. 15. Table of Contents. The Company May Be Adversely Affected by the Soundness of Other Financial Institutions. <U+FEFF>. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of counterparty relationships.  The Company has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry.  As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions and impact our business.  Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or customer.  In addition, our credit risk may be further increased when the collateral held by us cannot be relied upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure due to us.  Any such losses could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. The most important counterparty for the Company, in terms of liquidity, is the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York (\"FHLBNY\").  The Company uses FHLBNY as its primary source of borrowed overnight funds and also has several long-term advances with FHLBNY.  At December 31, 2017, the Company had a total of $88 million in borrowed funds with FHLBNY.  The Company has placed sufficient collateral in the form of commercial and residential real estate loans at FHLBNY.  As a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank System, the Bank is required to hold stock in FHLBNY.  The Bank held FHLBNY stock with a fair value of $4.9 million as of December 31, 2017.. <U+FEFF>. There are 12 branches of the FHLB, including New York.  If a branch  were at risk of breaching risk-based capital requirements, it could suspend dividends, cut dividend payments, and/or not buy back excess FHLB stock that members hold.  FHLBNY has stated that they expect to be able to continue to pay dividends, redeem excess capital stock, and provide competitively priced advances in the future.  Nonetheless, the 12 FHLB branches are jointly liable for the consolidated obligations of the FHLB system.  To the extent that one FHLB branch cannot meet its obligations to pay its share of the system's debt; other FHLB branches can be called upon to make the payment.. Systemic weakness in the FHLB could result in higher costs of FHLB borrowings, reduced value of FHLB stock, and increased demand for alternative sources of liquidity that are more expensive, such as brokered time deposits, the discount window at the Federal Reserve, or lines of credit with correspondent banks First Tennessee Bank and M&T Bank.. A Decline in the Value of the Company's Deferred Tax Assets Could Adversely Affect the Company's Operating Results and Regulatory Capital Ratios.. The Company's tax strategies depend on the ability to generate taxable income in future periods. The Company's tax strategies will be less effective in the event the Company fails to generate anticipated amounts of taxable income. The value of the Company's deferred tax assets is subject to an evaluation of whether it is more likely than not that they will be realized for financial statement purposes. In making this determination, management considers all positive and negative evidence available, including the Company's historical levels of taxable income, the opportunity for net operating loss carrybacks, and projections for future taxable income over the statutory tax loss carryover period. If the Company were to conclude that a significant portion of deferred tax assets were not more likely than not to be realized, the required valuation allowance could adversely affect the Company's financial position, results of operations and regulatory capital ratios. In addition, the value of the Company's deferred tax assets could be adversely affected by a change in statutory tax rates.. The TCJA Includes Significant Changes in Tax Legislation Which Could Result in Significant Changes to the Company's Future Tax Positions, Consumer Behavior, the Economy and Competition.. The TCJA, which was enacted in December 2017, contains many provisions which differ from previous tax law. These changes include, but are not limited to, the reduction in the federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%.   The Company recorded income tax expense and deferred tax assets for the year ended December 31, 2017 and as of December 31, 2017, respectively, based on the Company's initial analysis of the TCJA.  This resulted in an expense related to the remeasurement of the Company's deferred tax assets and reduced the value of those assets by $2.1 million due to the reduction of the federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%.  Given the complexity of the TCJA, anticipated guidance from the U.S. Treasury regarding implementation of the act, and the potential for guidance from the Securities and Exchange Commission or the Financial Accounting Standards Board related to the TCJA,  it is possible there will be adjustments to our results of operations during 2018 to reflect any such guidance provided.  These adjustments may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Furthermore, given the significant change in the US tax law, there could be any number of consequences to the US economy and therefore the Company.  While corporations will benefit from the reduction in the federal income tax rate, the implications could result in more aggressive loan and deposit pricing or increased advertising by direct competitors of the Company or wage inflation that would increase the Company's salaries and benefits costs.  Further, changes in the federal tax code for individuals could drive changes in consumer behavior that could impact the Company.  For example, new caps on the deductibility of mortgage interest could adversely affect the residential real estate market including a reduction in home prices (including homes serving as collateral for the Bank's current residential mortgage loans) and a preference for renting rather than owning a home.  Any such occurrences could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations.. 16. Table of Contents. HRTC rules also changed under the TCJA, with new credits now being taken over five years rather than all in the year in which the project is placed in service.  This delay in cash flows to investors is expected to negatively impact the pricing on HRTC's.  It is possible that when investors like the Company lower their price on potential HRTC opportunities, developers may not have sufficient funding to complete rehabilitation projects in the future and the HRTC market could become severely diminished or eliminated altogether.  The Company earned $0.7 million in net income on HRTC investments in 2017.  The Company has HRTC investments valued at $1.2 million as of December 31, 2017.. <U+FEFF>. Strong Competition Within the Company's Market Area May Limit the Company's Growth and Profitability. <U+FEFF>. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense.  The Company competes with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally within the Company's market area and elsewhere.  Many of these competitors (whether regional or national institutions) have substantially greater resources and lending limits than the Company does, and may offer certain services that the Company does not or cannot provide.  The Company's profitability depends upon its continued ability to successfully compete in this market area.. <U+FEFF>. Expansion of the Company's Branch Network May Adversely Affect its Financial Results. <U+FEFF>. The Company cannot assure that the opening of new branches will be accretive to earnings or that it will be accretive to earnings within a reasonable period of time.  Numerous factors contribute to the performance of a new branch, such as suitable location, qualified personnel, and an effective marketing strategy.  Additionally, it takes time for a new branch to gather sufficient loans and deposits to generate income sufficient to cover its operating expenses.  Difficulties the Company experiences in opening new branches may have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. The Company Operates in a Highly Regulated Environment and May Be Adversely Affected By Changes in Laws and Regulations. <U+FEFF>. The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the OCC, FRB, and by the FDIC, as insurer of its deposits.  Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which a bank and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the deposit insurance funds and depositors.  Regulatory requirements affect the Company's lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth.  These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of a bank, the imposition of deposit insurance premiums and other assessments, the classification of assets by a bank and the adequacy of a bank's allowance for loan losses.  Any change in such regulation and oversight, particularly through the new rules and regulations expected to be established by the Dodd-Frank Act and Basel III, could have a material adverse impact on the Bank, the Company and its business, financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. Lack of System Integrity or Credit Quality Related to Funds Settlement Could Result in a Financial Loss. <U+FEFF>. The Bank settles funds on behalf of financial institutions, other businesses and consumers and receives funds from clients, card issuers, payment networks and consumers on a daily basis for a variety of transaction types.  Transactions facilitated by the Bank include debit card, credit card and electronic bill payment transactions, supporting consumers, financial institutions and other businesses.  These payment activities rely upon the technology infrastructure that facilitates the verification of activity with counterparties and the facilitation of the payment.  If the continuity of operations or integrity of processing were compromised this could result in a financial loss to the Bank, and therefore the Company, due to a failure in payment facilitation.  In addition, the Bank may issue credit to consumers, financial institutions or other businesses as part of the funds settlement.  A default on this credit by a counterparty could result in a financial loss to the Bank, and therefore to the Company.. <U+FEFF>. Financial Services Companies Depend on the Accuracy and Completeness of Information about Customers and Counterparties. <U+FEFF>. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, the Company may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports, and other financial information.  The Company may also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties, or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information.  Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports, or other financial information could cause the Company to enter into unfavorable transactions, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. 17. Table of Contents. <U+FEFF>. Loss of Key Employees May Disrupt Relationships with Certain Customers. <U+FEFF>. The Company's business is primarily relationship-driven in that many of the key employees of the Bank and TEA have extensive customer relationships.  Loss of a key employee with such customer relationships may lead to the loss of business if the customers were to follow that employee to a competitor.  While management believes that the Company's relationships with its key business producers are good, the Company cannot guarantee that all of its key personnel will remain with the organization.  Loss of such key personnel, particularly if they enter into an employment relationship with one of the Company's competitors, could result in the loss of some of the Company's customers.  Such losses could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. Future FDIC Insurance Premium Increases May Adversely Affect the Company's Earnings. <U+FEFF>. The Company is generally unable to control the amount of premiums that it is required to pay for FDIC insurance.  If there are additional bank or financial institution failures or other similar occurrences, the FDIC may again increase the premiums assessed upon insured institutions.  Such increases and any future increases or required prepayments of FDIC insurance premiums may adversely impact the Company's results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. The Company is a Financial Holding Company and Depends on Its Subsidiaries for Dividends, Distributions and Other Payments. <U+FEFF>. The Company is a legal entity separate and distinct from its banking and other subsidiaries. The Company's principal source of cash flow, including cash flow to pay dividends to the Company's stockholders and principal and interest on its outstanding debt, is dividends from the Bank.  There are statutory and regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends by the Bank, as well as the payment of dividends by the Company to its stockholders.  Regulations of the OCC affect the ability of the Bank to pay dividends and other distributions and to make loans to the Company.  If the Bank is unable to make dividend payments and sufficient capital is not otherwise available, the Company may not be able to make dividend payments to its common stockholders or principal and interest payments on its outstanding debt.. <U+FEFF>. Because the Nature of the Financial Services Business Involves a High Volume of Transactions, the Company Faces Significant Operational Risks. <U+FEFF>. The Company relies on the ability of its employees and systems to process a high number of transactions.  Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from the Company's operations, including but not limited to, the risk of fraud by employees or persons outside of the Company, the execution of unauthorized transactions by employees, errors relating to transaction processing and technology, breaches of the internal control system and compliance requirements, and business continuation and disaster recovery.  This risk of loss also includes the potential legal actions that could arise as a result of an operational deficiency or as a result of noncompliance with applicable regulatory standards, adverse business decisions or their implementation, and customer attrition due to potential negative publicity.  In the event of a breakdown in the internal control system, improper operation of systems or improper employee actions, the Company could suffer financial loss, face regulatory action and suffer damage to its reputation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition or results of operation.. <U+FEFF>. The Company's Information Systems May Experience an Interruption or Breach in Security. <U+FEFF>. The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business.  Any failure, interruption, or breach in security or operational integrity of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in the Company's customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan, and other systems.  There can be no assurance that failures, interruptions, or security breaches of the Company's information systems will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed.  If personal, nonpublic, confidential, or proprietary information of customers in the Company's possession were to be mishandled or misused, we could suffer significant regulatory consequences, reputational damage, and financial loss.  Such mishandling or misuse could include, for example, if such information were erroneously provided to parties who are not permitted to have the information, either by fault of the Company's systems, employees or counterparties, or where such information is intercepted or otherwise inappropriately taken by third parties.  The occurrence of any failures, interruptions, or security breaches of the Company's information systems could damage the Company's reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject the Company to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose the Company to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. 18. Table of Contents. <U+FEFF>. The Potential for Business Interruption Exists Throughout the Company's Organization. <U+FEFF>. Integral to the Company's performance is the continued efficacy of our technical systems, operational infrastructure, relationships with third parties and the vast array of associates and key executives in the Company's day-to-day and ongoing operations.  Failure by any or all of these resources subjects the Company to risks that may vary in size, scale and scope.  This includes, but is not limited to, operational or technical failures, pandemics, ineffectiveness or exposure due to interruption in third party support as expected, as well as the loss of key individuals or failure on the part of key individuals to perform properly.  The occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. Environmental Factors May Create Liability. <U+FEFF>. In the course of its business, the Bank has acquired and may acquire in the future, property securing loans that are in default.  There is a risk that the Bank could be required to investigate and clean-up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at such properties after acquisition by the Bank in a foreclosure action, and that the Bank may be held liable to a governmental entity or third parties for property damage, personal injury and investigation and clean-up costs incurred by such parties in connection with such contamination.  The Bank may in the future be required to perform an investigation or clean-up activities in connection with environmental claims.  Ay such occurrence could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. Anti-Takeover Laws and Certain Agreements and Charter Provisions May Adversely Affect Share Value. <U+FEFF>. Certain provisions of the Company's certificate of incorporation and state and federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of the Company without approval of the Company's board of directors.  Under federal law, subject to certain exemptions, a person, entity or group must notify the FRB before acquiring control of a bank holding company.  Acquisition of 10% or more of any class of voting stock of a bank holding company, including shares of the Company's common stock, creates a rebuttable presumption that the acquiror \"controls\" the bank holding company. Also, a bank holding company must obtain the prior approval of the FRB before, among other things, acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any bank, including the Bank. There also are provisions in the Company's certificate of incorporation that may be used to delay or block a takeover attempt.  Taken as a whole, these statutory provisions and provisions in the Company's certificate of incorporation could result in the Company being less attractive to a potential acquiror and thus could adversely affect the market price of the Company's common stock.. <U+FEFF>. Damage to the Company's Reputation Could Adversely Impact our Business. <U+FEFF>. The Company's business reputation is important to its success.  The ability to attract and retain customers, investors, employees and advisors may depend upon external perceptions of the Company.  Damage to the Company's reputation could cause significant harm to its business and prospects and may arise from numerous sources, including litigation or regulatory actions, failing to deliver minimum standards of service and quality, compliance failures, unethical behavior and the misconduct of employees, advisors and counterparties.  Negative perceptions or publicity regarding these matters could damage the Company's reputation among existing and potential customers, investors, employees and advisors.  Adverse developments with respect to the financial services industry may also, by association, negatively impact the Company's reputation or result in greater regulatory or legislative scrutiny or litigation against the Company.  Preserving and enhancing the Company's reputation also depends on maintaining systems and procedures that address known risks and regulatory requirements, as well as its ability to identify and mitigate additional risks that arise due to changes in businesses and the marketplaces in which the Company operates, the regulatory environment and client expectations.  If any of these developments has a material effect on the Company's reputation, its business could suffer.. <U+FEFF>"
