[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business. Difficult market conditions may adversely affect our business in many ways, including reducing the volume of the transactions involving our Investment Banking business and reducing the value of the assets we manage in our Investment Management businesses, which, in each case, may materially reduce our revenue or income.. As a financial services firm, our businesses are materially affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions in the U.S. and throughout the world. Financial markets and economic conditions can be negatively impacted by many factors beyond our control, such as the inability to access credit markets, rising interest rates or inflation, terrorism, political uncertainty, uncertainty in the U.S. federal fiscal policy and the fiscal policy of foreign governments and the timing and nature of regulatory reform. Unfavorable market or economic conditions, as well as volatility in the financial markets can materially reduce the demand for our services and present new challenges.. Revenue generated by our Investment Banking business is related to the volume and value of the transactions in which we are involved. The majority of our bankers are focused on covering clients in the context of providing M&A services and those activities generate a substantial portion of our revenues. During periods of unfavorable market and economic conditions,. 8. Table of Contents. our operating results may be adversely affected by a decrease in the volume and value of M&A transactions and increasing price competition among financial services companies seeking advisory engagements. Additionally, our clients engaging in M&A transactions often rely on access to the credit and/or capital markets to finance their transactions. The uncertainty of available credit and the volatility of the capital markets and the fact that we do not provide financing or otherwise commit capital to clients can adversely affect the size, volume, timing and ability of such clients to successfully complete M&A transactions and adversely affect our Investment Banking business.. In the event of a decline in M&A activity, we may seek to generate greater business from our restructuring and capital advisory services and our Evercore ISI business. However, it is unlikely that we will be able to offset lower revenues in their entirety from our M&A activities with revenues generated from restructuring and capital advisory services or from our Evercore ISI business. Our restructuring services, which provide financial advice and investment banking services to companies in financial transition, as well as to creditors, shareholders and potential acquirers, our capital advisory services, which provide corporations and financial sponsors with advice relating to a broad array of financing issues, and our Evercore ISI business, which provides equity research and agency-only securities sales and trading for institutional investors, are intentionally smaller than our M&A advisory business and we expect that they will remain that way for the foreseeable future.. Unfavorable market conditions may also lead to a reduction in revenues from our underwriting and placement agent activities, and to the extent that adverse economic market conditions affect M&A and capital raising activities generally, the demand for the research and other services provided by our Evercore ISI business could correspondingly decline.. During a market or general economic downturn, our Institutional Asset Management (through ECB) and Wealth Management businesses would also be expected to generate lower revenue because the management fees we receive are typically based on the market value of the securities that comprise the assets we manage. In addition, due to uncertainty or volatility in the market or in response to difficult market conditions, clients or prospective clients may withdraw funds from, or hesitate to allocate assets to, these businesses in favor of investments they perceive as offering greater opportunity or lower risk. Difficult market conditions can also materially adversely affect our ability to launch new products or offer new services in our Institutional Asset Management or Wealth Management businesses, which could negatively affect our ability to increase AUM. In each case, management fees based on AUM would be negatively affected. Moreover, difficult market conditions may negatively impact the private equity funds in which we hold interests by further reducing valuations and curtailing opportunities to exit and realize value from their investments.. We depend on our senior professionals, including our executive officers, and the loss of their services could have a material adverse effect on us.. Our senior leadership team's expertise, skill, reputation and relationships with clients and potential clients are critical elements in maintaining and expanding our businesses. For example, our Investment Banking business, including Advisory and Evercore ISI, is dependent on our senior Investment Banking professionals and on a small number of senior research analysts, traders and executives. In addition, EWM is dependent on a small number of senior portfolio managers and executives. Further, the operations and performance of G5, ABS and Atalanta Sosnoff are dependent on a small number of senior executives. Our professionals possess substantial experience and expertise and strong client relationships. However, they are not obligated to remain employed with us and the market for qualified professionals is highly competitive. If these personnel were to retire, join an existing competitor, form a competing company or otherwise leave us, it could jeopardize our relationships with clients and result in the loss of client engagements and revenues.. In addition, if any of our executive officers or other senior professionals were to join an existing competitor or form a competing company, some of our clients could choose to use the services of that competitor instead of our services or some of our other professionals could choose to follow the departing senior professional to a competitor. Although we have entered into non-competition agreements with certain senior professionals, there is no guarantee that these agreements provide sufficient incentives or protections to prevent our professionals from resigning to join our competitors or that the non-competition agreements would be upheld if we were to seek to enforce our rights. The departure of a number of executive officers or senior professionals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we are unable to successfully identify and hire productive individuals to join our firm, we may not be able to implement our growth strategy successfully.. Our growth strategy is based, in part, on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled profitable senior finance professionals across all of our businesses. To the extent we award compensation based on our business performance, we may. 9. Table of Contents. not be able to retain our professionals, which could result in increased recruiting expenses or our recruiting professionals at higher compensation levels.. Due to competition from other firms, we may face difficulties in recruiting and retaining professionals of a caliber consistent with our business strategy. In particular, many of our competitors may be able to offer more attractive compensation packages or broader career opportunities. Additionally, it may take more than one year for us to determine whether new advisory professionals will be profitable or effective, during which time we may incur significant expenses and expend significant time and resources on training, integration and business development aimed at developing this new talent.. Certain aspects of our cost structure are largely fixed, and we may incur costs associated with new or expanded lines of business prior to these lines of business generating significant revenue. If our revenue declines or fails to increase commensurately with the expenses associated with new or expanded lines of business, our profitability may be materially adversely affected.. We may incur costs associated with new or expanded lines of business, including guaranteed or fixed compensation costs, prior to these lines of business generating significant revenue. In addition, certain aspects of our cost structure, such as costs for occupancy and equipment rentals, communication and information technology services, and depreciation and amortization are largely fixed, and we may not be able to timely adjust these costs to match fluctuations in revenue. If our revenue declines, or fails to increase commensurately with the expenses associated with new or expanded lines of business, our profitability may be materially adversely affected.. Our growth has placed, and will continue to place, significant demands on our administrative, operational and financial resources.. We have experienced significant growth in the past several years. Supporting this growth has placed significant demands on our operational, legal, regulatory and financial systems and resources for integration, training and business development efforts. We are often required to commit additional resources to maintain appropriate operational, legal, regulatory and financial systems to adequately support expansion, even when we only partner, enter into strategic alliances or take minority stakes in other businesses. We expect our growth to continue, which could place additional demands on our resources and increase our expenses. We cannot provide assurance that our financial controls, the level of knowledge of our personnel, our operational abilities, our legal and compliance controls and our other corporate support systems will be adequate to manage our expanding operations effectively. Any failure to do so could adversely affect our ability to pursue our growth strategy, generate revenue and control expenses.. Our revenue and profits are highly volatile, which may make it difficult for us to achieve steady earnings growth on a quarterly basis and may cause the price of our Class A common stock to decline.. Our revenue and profits are highly volatile and we can experience significant fluctuations in quarterly results. We generally derive Investment Banking revenue from engagements that generate significant fees at key transaction milestones, such as closing, and the timing of these milestones is outside of our control. As a result, our financial results will likely fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on the timing of when those fees are earned. It may be difficult for us to achieve steady earnings growth on a quarterly basis, which could, in turn, lead to large adverse movements in the price of our Class A common stock or increased volatility in our stock price generally.. We earn a majority of our revenue from advisory engagements, and, in many cases, we are not paid until the successful consummation of the transactions. As a result, our Investment Banking revenue is highly dependent on market conditions and the decisions and actions of our clients, interested third parties and governmental authorities. For example, a client could delay or terminate an acquisition transaction because of a failure to agree upon final terms with the counterparty, failure to obtain necessary regulatory consents or board or stockholder approvals, failure to secure necessary financing, adverse market conditions or because the target's business is experiencing unexpected operating or financial problems. Anticipated bidders for assets of a client during a restructuring transaction may not materialize or our client may not be able to restructure its operations or indebtedness due to a failure to reach agreement with its principal creditors. In these circumstances, we often do not receive any advisory fees other than the reimbursement of certain out-of-pocket expenses, despite the fact that we have devoted considerable resources to these transactions.. In Institutional Asset Management and Wealth Management, our revenue includes management fees from assets we manage. These revenues are dependent upon the amount of AUM, which can decline as a result of market depreciation, withdrawals or otherwise, as well as the performance of the assets. The timing of flows, contributions and withdrawals are often out of our control, can occur on short notice, and may be inconsistent from quarter to quarter. See \" - The amount and mix of. 10. Table of Contents. our AUM are subject to significant fluctuations.\" In addition, a portion of our Institutional Asset Management revenue is derived from performance fees, which vary depending on the performance of the investments we select for the funds and clients we manage, which could cause our revenue and profits to fluctuate. Even in the absence of a market downturn, below-market investment performance by our funds and portfolio managers could reduce AUM and asset management revenues.. Our failure to deal appropriately with actual, potential or perceived conflicts of interest could damage our reputation and materially adversely affect our business.. As we have expanded the scope of our businesses and client base, we increasingly confront actual, potential and perceived conflicts of interest relating to our Investment Banking and Investment Management businesses. It is possible that actual, potential or perceived conflicts could give rise to client dissatisfaction, litigation or regulatory enforcement actions. Appropriately identifying and managing actual or perceived conflicts of interest is complex and difficult, and our reputation could be damaged if we fail, or appear to fail, to deal appropriately with one or more potential or actual conflicts of interest. Regulatory scrutiny of, or litigation in connection with, conflicts of interest would have a material adverse effect on our reputation which would materially adversely affect our business in a number of ways, including an inability to recruit additional professionals and a reluctance of potential clients and counterparties to do business with us. Additionally, client-imposed conflicts requirements could place additional limitations on us, for example, by limiting our ability to accept Investment Banking advisory engagements.. Policies, controls and procedures that we may be required to implement to address additional regulatory requirements, including as a result of additional foreign jurisdictions in which we operate, Evercore ISI's business and our underwriting activities, or to mitigate actual or potential conflicts of interest, may result in increased costs, including for additional personnel and infrastructure and information technology improvements, as well as limit our activities and reduce the positive synergies that we seek to cultivate across our businesses. For example, due to our equity research activities through Evercore ISI, we face potential conflicts of interest, including situations where our provision or publication of research conflicts with the interests of an advisory client, or allegations that research objectivity is being inappropriately impacted by advisory client considerations. Such conflicts may also arise if our Investment Banking advisory business has access to material non-public information that may not be shared with our equity research business or vice versa.. Employee misconduct, which is difficult to detect and deter, could harm us by impairing our ability to attract and retain clients while subjecting us to significant legal liability and reputational harm.. There is a risk that our employees could engage in fraud or misconduct that adversely affects our business. Our Investment Banking business often requires that we deal with confidential matters of great significance to our clients. If our employees were to improperly use or disclose confidential information provided by our clients, we could be subject to regulatory sanctions and suffer serious harm to our reputation, financial position, current client relationships and ability to attract future clients and employees. We are also subject to a number of obligations and standards arising from our Investment Management business and our authority over the assets managed by our Investment Management business. The violation of these obligations and standards by any of our employees would adversely affect our clients and us. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in all cases. If our employees engage in misconduct, our business may be adversely affected.. In addition, the U.S. Department of Justice and the SEC continue to devote greater resources to the enforcement of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and the United Kingdom has significantly expanded the reach of its anti-bribery laws. While we have developed and implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure strict compliance with anti-bribery and other laws, such policies and procedures may not be effective in all instances to prevent violations. Any determination that any of our employees have violated these laws (or similar laws of other jurisdictions in which we do business) could subject us to, among other things, civil and criminal penalties, material fines, profit disgorgement, injunction on future conduct, securities litigation and reputational damage, any one of which could adversely affect our business, financial position or results of operations.. The financial services industry faces substantial litigation risks, and we may face damage to our professional reputation and legal liability if our services are not regarded as satisfactory or for other reasons.. As a financial services firm, we depend to a large extent on our relationships with our clients and our reputation for integrity and high-caliber professional services to attract and retain clients. As a result, if a client is not satisfied with our services or if there are allegations of improper conduct by private litigants or regulators, whether the ultimate outcome is favorable or unfavorable to us, as well as negative publicity and press speculation about us, whether or not valid, may harm our reputation and may be more damaging to our business than to other types of businesses. Moreover, our role as advisor to our. 11. Table of Contents. clients on important mergers and acquisitions or restructuring transactions often involves complex analysis and the exercise of professional judgment, including, if appropriate, rendering fairness opinions in connection with mergers and other transactions.. In recent years, particularly in highly volatile markets, the volume of claims and amount of damages claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against M&A financial advisors has increased. Our business is also subject to regulation in the countries in which it operates. As this regulatory environment continues to change (in some cases potentially significantly) it is difficult to assess future litigation and regulatory risks. Regulatory changes make it harder for our clients to estimate future potential losses that may be incurred. Our M&A advisory activities may subject us to the risk of significant legal liability to our clients and third parties, including our clients' stockholders, under securities or other laws for materially false or misleading statements made in connection with securities and other transactions and potential liability for the fairness opinions and other advice provided to participants in corporate transactions. In addition, a portion of our M&A advisory fees are obtained from restructuring clients, and often these clients do not have sufficient resources to indemnify us for costs and expenses associated with third-party subpoenas and direct claims, to the extent such claims are not barred as part of the reorganization process. Our engagements typically include broad indemnities from our clients and provisions designed to limit our exposure to legal claims relating to our services, but these provisions may not protect us or may not be adhered to in all cases. These indemnities also are dependent on our client's capacity to pay the amounts claimed. As a result, we may incur significant legal expenses in defending against litigation. In our Investment Management business, we make investment decisions on behalf of our clients that could result in substantial losses. This also may subject us to the risk of legal liability or actions alleging negligent misconduct, breach of fiduciary duty or breach of contract. These risks often may be difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude often remain unknown for substantial periods of time. Substantial legal liability or legal expenses incurred in defending against litigation could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results or liquidity or cause significant reputational harm to us, which could seriously harm our business.. Extensive and evolving regulation of our businesses exposes us to the potential for significant penalties and fines due to compliance failures, increases our costs and limits our ability to engage in certain activities.. As a participant in the financial services industry we are subject to extensive regulation by governmental and self-regulatory organizations in jurisdictions around the world, as described further under \"Business - Regulation\" above. As a result of market volatility and disruption over the past decade, the U.S. and other governments have taken unprecedented steps to try to stabilize the financial system, including legislation and regulatory initiatives such as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. The full extent of the effects of these actions and legislative and regulatory initiatives is uncertain, both as to the financial capital markets and participants in general, and as to us in particular.. Our ability to conduct business and our operating results, including compliance costs, may be adversely affected as a result of any new requirements imposed by the SEC, FINRA, or other U.S. or foreign governmental regulatory authorities or self-regulatory organizations that regulate the financial services industry. We may also be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws or regulations by these governmental authorities and self-regulatory organizations. For example, the current administration in the U.S. may ultimately repeal or modify certain regulations adopted since the financial crisis. Uncertainty about the timing and scope of any changes to existing laws and rules or the implementation of new law or rules by any regulatory authorities that regulate financial services firms or supervise financial markets, as well as the compliance costs associated with a new regulatory regime, may negatively impact our businesses in the short term, even if the long-term impact of any such changes are positive for our businesses. In addition, policies adopted by clients or prospective clients, which may exceed regulatory requirements may result in additional compliance costs that materially affect our business. Because certain of our larger competitors are subject to regulations that do not affect us to the same extent or at all, regulatory reforms may benefit them more than us, including by expanding their permitted activities, reducing their compliance costs or reducing restraints on compensation, any of which could enhance their ability to compete against us for advisory opportunities, for employees or otherwise in a manner that negatively impacts our business.. Our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could result in adverse publicity and reputational harm as well as fines, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of the registration of us or any of our subsidiaries as an investment adviser or broker-dealer. For example, we are subject to extensive bribery and anti-corruption regulation, which can present heightened risks for us due to certain jurisdictions in which we operate and our significant client relationships with governmental entities and certain businesses that receive support from government agencies. Our businesses are subject to periodic examination by various regulatory authorities, and we cannot predict the outcome of any such examinations or estimate the amount of monetary fines or penalties which could be assessed. In addition, adverse regulatory scrutiny of any of our strategic partners could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation. For example, the SEC has recently focused on investment advisers, investigating and bringing enforcement actions where such advisers have breached or are. 12. Table of Contents. alleged to have breached their fiduciary duties to clients. Any investigation by the SEC, even in the absence of wrongdoing, could damage our reputation with clients and adversely affect our operations.. Specific regulatory changes may have a direct impact on the revenue of our Investment Management business. In addition to regulatory scrutiny and potential fines and sanctions, regulators continue to examine different aspects of the investment management industry. For example, several states and municipalities in the United States have adopted \"pay-to-play\" rules, which could limit our ability to charge advisory fees, and could therefore affect the profitability of that portion of our business.  In addition, the use of \"soft dollars,\" where a portion of commissions paid to broker-dealers in connection with the execution of trades also pays for research and other services provided to advisors, is periodically reexamined and may in the future be limited or modified. Although a substantial portion of the research relied on by our Investment Management business in the investment decision-making process is generated internally by our investment analysts, external research, including external research paid for with soft dollars, is important to the process. This external research generally is used for information gathering or verification purposes, and includes broker-provided research, as well as third-party provided databases and research services. If the use of soft dollars is limited, we may have to bear some of these costs. Furthermore, new regulations regarding the management of hedge funds and the use of certain investment products may impact our Investment Management business and result in increased costs. For example, many regulators around the world adopted disclosure and reporting requirements relating to the hedge fund businesses or other businesses, and changes to the laws, rules and regulations in the U.S. related to the over-the-counter swaps and derivatives markets require additional registration, recordkeeping and reporting obligations.. Furthermore, it is expected that MiFID II and MiFIR, which went into effect on January 3, 2018, will have significant and wide-ranging impacts on EU securities and derivatives markets as a result of enhanced investor protection and organizational requirements, including, among other things, (i) rules regarding the ability of portfolio management firms to receive and pay for investment research relating to all asset classes, (ii) enhanced regulation of algorithmic trading, (iii) the movement of trading in certain shares and derivatives onto regulated execution venues, (iv) the extension of pre- and post-trade transparency requirements to wider categories of financial instruments, (v) restriction on the use of so-called dark pool trading, (vi) the creation of a new type of trading venue called the Organized Trading Facility for non-equity financial instruments, (vii) commodity derivative position limits and reporting requirements, (viii) a move away from vertical silos in execution, clearing and settlement, (ix) an exchanged role for European Securities and Markets Authority (\"ESMA\") in supervising EU securities and derivatives markets and (x) new requirements regarding non-EU investment firms access to EU financial markets. Implementation of these measures may have direct and indirect impact on us and certain of our affiliates, including an adverse effect on the demand for our research and trading services from EU investors and an increase in legal and compliance costs.. A U.K. exit from the European Union could adversely impact our business and operations.. On March 29, 2017, the U.K. notified the EU of its intention to withdraw from the EU, following a referendum in June 2016. A U.K. exit from the EU, together with the ongoing negotiations around the terms of any exit, could adversely affect European and worldwide economic and market conditions, contribute to instability in global financial and foreign exchange markets, including volatility in the value of the British pound and European euro, and introduce significant legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations. Our U.K. entities, Evercore U.K. and ISI U.K., primarily service European-domiciled clients. Adverse conditions arising from a U.K. exit from the EU could adversely affect our U.K. business and operations, including by reducing the volume or size of mergers, acquisitions, divestitures and other strategic corporate transactions on which we seek to advise. A U.K. exit from the EU could also cause our U.K. entities to lose their EU financial services passport licenses, which allow them to operate on a cross-border and off-shore basis into all EU countries without obtaining regulatory approval outside of the U.K. Consequently, our legal, compliance and operational costs would increase.. We are exposed to risks and costs associated with protecting the integrity and security of our clients', employees' and others' personal data and other sensitive information.. As part of our business, we manage, utilize and store sensitive or confidential client or employee data, including personal data. As a result, we are subject to various risks and costs associated with the collection, handling, storage and transmission of sensitive information, including those related to compliance with U.S. and foreign data collection and privacy laws and other contractual obligations, as well as those associated with the compromise of our systems collecting such information. These laws and regulations are increasing in complexity and number. For example, the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\"), which becomes effective in May 2018 and replaces the current data protection laws of each EU member state, requires companies to meet new and more stringent requirements regarding the handling of personal data, and failure to meet the GDPR requirements could result in penalties of up to four percent of worldwide revenue.. 13. Table of Contents. If any person, including any of our employees, negligently disregards or intentionally breaches our established controls with respect to client or employee data, or otherwise mismanages or misappropriates that data, we could be subject to significant monetary damages, regulatory enforcement actions, fines and/or criminal prosecution. In addition, unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client or employee data, whether through cyber-attacks, systems failure, employee negligence, fraud or misappropriation, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose clients and their related revenue in the future. Potential liability in the event of a security breach of client data could be significant and depending on the circumstances giving rise to the breach, this liability may not be subject to a contractual limit of liability or an exclusion of consequential or indirect damages.. Any failure to comply with these regulations could expose us to liability and/or reputational damage. In addition, our businesses are increasingly subject to laws and regulations relating to surveillance, encryption and data on-shoring in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Compliance with these laws and regulations may require us to change our policies, procedures and technology for information security, which could, among other things, make us more vulnerable to cyber-attacks and misappropriation, corruption or loss of information or technology.. Our business is subject to various cybersecurity and other operational risks.. We face various operational risks related to our businesses on a day-to-day basis. We rely heavily on financial, accounting, communication and other data processing systems to securely process, transmit, and store sensitive and confidential client information, and communicate among our locations around the world and with our staff, clients, partners, and vendors. We also depend on third-party software and programs, as well as cloud-based storage platforms as part of our operations. These systems, including the systems of third parties on whom we rely, may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of tampering or a breach of our network security systems or otherwise, including for reasons beyond our or their control.. In addition, as we operate in a financial services industry, we are susceptible of attempts to gain unauthorized access of client, customer or other confidential information. We are also at risk for cyber-attacks involving the theft, dissemination and destruction of corporate information or other assets, which could result from an employee's or contractor's failure to follow data security procedures or as a result of actions by third parties, including actions by foreign governments. Although cyber-attacks have not, to date, had a material impact on our operations, breaches of our or third-party network security systems on which we rely could involve attacks that are intended to obtain unauthorized access to and disclose our proprietary information, destroy data or disable, degrade or sabotage our systems, often through the introduction of computer viruses, cyber-attacks and other means, and could originate from a wide variety of sources, including state actors or other unknown third parties outside the firm. The increased use of mobile technologies can heighten these and other operational risks.. There can be no assurance that we or the third parties on whom we rely will be able to anticipate, detect or implement effective preventative measures against frequently changing cyber threats. We expect to incur significant costs in maintaining and enhancing appropriate protections to keep pace with increasingly sophisticated methods of attack. In addition to the implementation of data security measures, we require our employees to maintain the confidentiality of the proprietary information we hold. If an employee's failure to follow proper data security procedures results in the improper release of confidential information, or our systems are otherwise compromised, do not operate properly or are disabled, we could suffer a disruption of our business, financial losses, liability to clients, regulatory sanctions and damage to our reputation.. We operate in businesses that are highly dependent on proper processing of financial transactions. In Evercore ISI, and our Institutional Asset Management and Wealth Management businesses in particular, we must consistently and reliably obtain securities pricing information, properly execute and process client transactions and provide reports and other customer service to our clients. The expansion of our equities business has increased the size and scope of our trading activities and, accordingly, increased the opportunities for trade errors and other operational errors in connection with the processing of transactions. The occurrence of trade or other operational errors or the failure to keep accurate books and records can render us liable to disciplinary action by governmental and self-regulatory authorities, as well as to claims by our clients. We also rely on third-party service providers for certain aspects of our business. Any interruption or deterioration in the performance of these third parties or failures of their information systems and technology could impair our operations, affect our reputation and adversely affect our businesses.. In addition, if we were to experience a disaster or other business continuity problem, such as a pandemic, other man-made or natural disaster or disruption involving electronic communications or other services used by us or third parties with whom we conduct business, our continued success will depend, in part, on the availability of our personnel and office facilities and the proper functioning of our computer, software, telecommunications, transaction processing and other related systems and operations, as well as those of third parties on whom we rely. In particular, we depend on our headquarters in New York City,. 14. Table of Contents. where a large number of our personnel are located, for the continued operation of our business. A disaster or a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our businesses, a disruption involving electronic communications or other services used by us or third parties with whom we conduct business, or a disruption that directly affects our headquarters, could have a material adverse impact on our ability to continue to operate our business without interruption. The incidence and severity of disasters or other business continuity problems are unpredictable, and our inability to timely and successfully recover could materially disrupt our businesses and cause material financial loss, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability.. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness.. Our ability to make scheduled payments on, or to refinance, our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance. We cannot provide assurance that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal of, and interest on, our indebtedness, including the $170.0 million principal amount of the senior notes issued, (the \"Private Placement Notes\") subject to semi-annual interest payments as well as principal payments beginning in 2021. The final payments of all amounts outstanding, plus accrued interest, are due 2028. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, including the principal and semi-annual interest payments noted above, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness, including the Private Placement Notes, subordinated borrowings and other contractual commitments.. Our clients may be unable to pay us for our services.. We face the risk that certain clients may not have sufficient financial resources to pay our agreed-upon advisory fees, including in the bankruptcy or insolvency context. Our clients include some companies that may from time to time encounter financial difficulties. If a client's financial difficulties become severe, the client may be unwilling or unable to pay our invoices in the ordinary course of business, which could adversely affect collections of both our accounts receivable and unbilled services. On occasion, some of our clients have entered bankruptcy, which has prevented us from collecting amounts owed to us. The bankruptcy of a number of our clients that, in the aggregate, owe us substantial accounts receivable could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if a number of clients declare bankruptcy after paying us certain invoices, courts may determine that we are not properly entitled to those payments and may require repayment of some or all of the amounts we received, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Certain clients may also be unwilling to pay our advisory fees in whole or in part, in which case we may have to incur significant costs to bring legal action to enforce our engagement agreements to obtain our advisory fees.. Goodwill, equity method investments and other intangible assets represent a significant portion of our assets, and an impairment of these assets could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation.. Goodwill, other intangible assets and equity method investments represent a significant portion of our assets. We assess these assets at least annually for impairment, however, we may need to perform impairment tests more frequently if events occur or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable. These events or circumstances could include a significant change in the business climate, attrition of key personnel, a prolonged decline in our stock price and market capitalization, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, sale or disposition of a significant portion of one of our businesses and other factors. During 2017, we recorded an impairment charge of $14.4 million related to our equity method investment in G5 and an impairment charge of $7.1 million related to the goodwill in our Institutional Asset Management reporting unit. See Notes 4 and 9 to our consolidated financial statements for further information. The valuation of our reporting units, equity method investments or long-lived intangible assets requires judgment in estimating future cash flows, discount rates and other factors. In making these judgments, we evaluate the financial health of our reporting units, equity method investments or long-lived intangible assets, including such factors as market performance, changes in our client base and projected growth rates. Because these factors are ever changing, due to market and general business conditions, we cannot predict whether, and to what extent, our goodwill, equity method investments and long-lived intangible assets may be impaired in future periods.. Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could materially adversely affect our business.. We have documented and tested our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent auditors regarding our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not. 15. Table of Contents. be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act. Failure to maintain an effective internal control environment could materially adversely affect our business.. A change in relevant income tax laws, regulations or treaties or an adverse interpretation of these items by tax authorities could result in an audit adjustment or revaluation of our net deferred tax assets that may cause our effective tax rate and tax liability to be higher than what is currently presented in the consolidated financial statements.. As part of the process of preparing our consolidated financial statements, we are required to estimate income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. Significant management judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes, our deferred tax assets and liabilities and any valuation allowance recorded against our net deferred tax assets. This process requires us to estimate our actual current tax liability and to assess temporary differences resulting from differing book versus tax treatment of items, such as deferred revenue, compensation and benefits expense, unrealized gains and losses on long-term investments and depreciation. Our effective tax rate and tax liability is based on the application of current income tax laws, regulations and treaties. These laws, regulations and treaties are complex, and the manner which they apply to our facts and circumstances is sometimes open to interpretation. Management believes its application of current laws, regulations and treaties to be correct and sustainable upon examination by the tax authorities. However, the tax authorities could challenge our interpretation resulting in additional tax liability or adjustment to our income tax provision that could increase our effective tax rate. In addition, tax laws, regulations or treaties newly enacted or enacted in the future may cause us to revalue our net deferred tax assets and have a material change to our effective tax rate.. For example, on December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law a comprehensive tax reform bill informally known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act that significantly revised the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, among other things, contains significant changes to corporate taxation, including a reduction of the corporate income tax rate, a partial limitation on the deductibility of business interest expense, a limitation of the deduction for certain net operating losses to 80% of current year taxable income, immediate deductions for certain new investments instead of deductions for depreciation expense over time, the modification or repeal of many business deductions and credits, and a partial shift of the U.S. taxation of multinational corporations from a tax on worldwide income to a territorial system (along with a transitional rule which taxes certain historic accumulated earnings and rules which prevent tax planning strategies which shift profits to low-tax jurisdictions). As a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act and our reduced future income tax rate, our tax provision for 2017 included a charge of $143.3 million primarily resulting from the estimated re-measurement of our net deferred tax assets. See Note 20 to our consolidated financial statements for further information. We continue to examine the impact of this tax reform legislation, and as its overall impact is uncertain, we note that the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act could adversely affect our business and financial condition. We cannot predict how the changes in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or regulations or other guidance issued under it, might affect our existing and any potentially new clients' ability or desire to engage our services. The impact of this tax reform legislation on holders of our Class A common stock is also uncertain and could be adverse.. Our inability to successfully identify, consummate and integrate alliances such as through joint ventures or acquired businesses as part of our growth initiatives could have adverse consequences to our business.. We may expand our various businesses through additional acquisitions, entering into joint ventures and strategic alliances, and internally developing new opportunities that are complementary to our existing businesses and where we think we can add substantial value or generate substantial returns. The success of this strategy will depend on, among other things:. • the availability of suitable opportunities and capital resources to effect our strategy;. • the level of competition from other companies that may have greater financial resources than we do or may not require the same level of disclosure of these activities;. • our ability to value acquisition and investment candidates accurately and negotiate acceptable terms for those acquisitions and investments; and. • our ability to identify and enter into mutually beneficial relationships with joint venture partners.. Additionally, integrating acquired businesses, providing a platform for new businesses and partnering with other firms involve a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including the following factors, among others:. • loss of key employees or customers;. • possible inconsistencies in or conflicts between standards, controls, procedures and policies and the need to implement company-wide financial, accounting, information technology and other systems;. • failure to maintain the quality of services that have historically been provided;. • failure to coordinate geographically diverse organizations;. 16. Table of Contents. • disagreements between us and our partners;. • compliance with regulatory requirements in regions in which new businesses and ventures are located; and. • the diversion of management's attention from our day-to-day business as a result of the need to manage any disruptions and difficulties and the need to add management resources to do so.. For example, acquisitions and internally developed initiatives generally result in increased operating and administrative costs as the necessary infrastructure, information technology, legal and compliance systems, controls and personnel are put in place. Our inability to develop, integrate and manage acquired companies, joint ventures or other strategic relationships and growth initiatives in an efficient and cost-effective manner, or at all, could have material adverse short- and long-term effects on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity.. We may not realize the cost savings, revenue enhancements or other benefits that we expected from our acquisitions and other growth initiatives.. Our analyses of the benefits and costs of expanding our businesses necessarily involve assumptions as to future events, including general business and industry conditions, the longevity of specific customer engagements and relationships, operating costs and competitive factors, many of which are beyond our control and may not materialize. While we believe our analyses and their underlying assumptions to be reasonable, they are estimates that are necessarily speculative in nature. In addition, new regulatory requirements and conflicts may reduce the synergies that we expect to result from our growth initiatives. Even if we achieve the expected benefits, we may not be able to achieve them within the anticipated time frame. Also, the cost savings and other synergies from these acquisitions may be offset by costs incurred in integrating the companies, increases in other expenses or problems in the business unrelated to these acquisitions. In the case of joint ventures, we are subject to additional risks and uncertainties in that we may be dependent upon, and subject to liability, losses or reputational damage relating to personnel, systems and activities that are not under our direct and sole control, and conflicts and disagreements between us and our joint venture partners may negatively impact our business.. Additionally, acquiring the equity of an existing business or substantially all of the assets of a company may expose us to liability for actions taken by an acquired business and its management before the acquisition. The due diligence we conduct in connection with an acquisition and any contractual guarantees or indemnities that we receive from the sellers of acquired companies may not be sufficient to protect us from, or compensate us for, actual liabilities. A material liability associated with an acquisition, especially where there is no right to indemnification, could adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity.. Risks Related to Our Investment Banking Business. A majority of our revenue is derived from advisory assignments for Investment Banking clients, which are not long-term contracted sources of revenue and are subject to intense competition, and declines in these engagements could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results.. We historically have earned a substantial portion of our revenue from fees paid to us by our Investment Banking clients for advisory services. These fees are typically payable upon the successful completion of a particular transaction or restructuring. Investment Banking services accounted for 96%, 95% and 92% of our revenues, excluding Other Revenue, net, in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively, a substantial portion of which represents fees generated by our advisory services. We expect that we will continue to rely on Investment Banking fees from advisory services for a substantial portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, a decline in our Investment Banking advisory engagements or the market for advisory services would adversely affect our business.. In addition, our Advisory professionals operate in a highly-competitive environment where typically there are no long-term contracted sources of revenue. Each revenue-generating engagement typically is separately solicited, awarded and negotiated. In addition, many businesses do not routinely engage in transactions requiring our services. As a consequence, our fee-paying engagements with many clients are not likely to be predictable and high levels of revenue in one quarter are not necessarily predictive of continued high levels of revenue in future periods. We also lose clients each year as a result of the sale or merger of a client, a change in a client's senior management, competition from other financial advisors and financial institutions and other causes. As a result, our advisory fees could decline materially due to such changes in the volume, nature and scope of our engagements.. 17. Table of Contents. A high percentage of our revenue is derived from a small number of Investment Banking clients, and the termination of any one advisory engagement could reduce our revenue and harm our operating results.. Our top five Investment Banking clients accounted for 13%, 10% and 9% of our revenues, excluding Other Revenue, net, in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The composition of the group comprising our largest Investment Banking clients varies significantly from year to year, and a relatively small number of clients may account for a significant portion of our Investment Banking Revenues. As a result, our operating results, financial condition and liquidity may be significantly affected by even one lost mandate or the failure of one advisory assignment to be completed, however, no single client accounted for more than 10% of our revenues, excluding Other Revenue, net, for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015.. We face strong competition from other financial advisory firms, many of which have the ability to offer clients a wider range of products and services than we can offer, which could cause us to fail to win advisory mandates and subject us to pricing pressures that could materially adversely affect our revenue and profitability.. The financial advisory industry is intensely competitive, highly fragmented and subject to rapid change, and we expect it to remain so. We compete on both a global and regional basis, and on the basis of a number of factors, including the quality of our employees, industry knowledge, transaction execution skills, our products and services, innovation, reputation, strength of relationships and price. We have experienced intense competition over obtaining advisory mandates in recent years, and we may experience pricing pressures in our Investment Banking business in the future, as some of our competitors seek to obtain increased market share by reducing fees. When making proposals for fixed-fee engagements, we estimate the costs and timing for completing the engagements. These estimates reflect our best judgment regarding the efficiencies of our methodologies and financial professionals as we plan to deploy them on engagements. Any unexpected costs or unanticipated delays in connection with the performance of such engagements could make these contracts less profitable or unprofitable, which would have an adverse effect on our profit margins.. Several of our competitors include large financial institutions, many of which have far greater financial and other resources and greater name recognition than us and, unlike us, have the ability to offer a wider range of products, which may enhance their competitive position. They also regularly support services we do not provide, such as commercial lending and other financial services and products, which puts us at a competitive disadvantage and could result in pricing pressures or lost opportunities, which could materially adversely affect our revenue and profitability. In addition, we may be at a competitive disadvantage with regard to certain of our competitors who have larger customer bases, have more professionals to serve their clients' needs and are able to provide financing or otherwise commit capital to clients that are often a crucial component of the Investment Banking transactions on which we advise.. In addition to our larger competitors, over the last few years a number of independent investment banks that offer only independent advisory services have emerged, with several showing rapid growth, stressing their lack of other businesses as a competitive advantage. As these independent firms or new entrants into the market seek to gain market share, there could be additional pricing and competitive pressures, which may impact our ability to implement our growth strategy and ultimately materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Evercore ISI's business relies on non-affiliated third-party service providers.. Evercore ISI has entered into service agreements with third-party service providers for client order management, trade execution and settlement and clearance of client securities transactions. This business faces the risk of operational failure of any of our clearing agents, the exchanges, clearing houses or other intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities transactions. Our senior management and officers oversee and manage these relationships. Poor oversight and control or inferior performance or service on the part of the service provider could result in loss of customers and violations of applicable rules and regulations. Any such failure could adversely affect our ability to effect transactions and to manage our exposure to risk.. Underwriting and trading activities expose us to risks.. We may incur losses and be subject to reputational harm to the extent that, for any reason, we are unable to sell securities we purchased as an underwriter at the anticipated price levels. As an underwriter, we also are subject to liability for material misstatements or omissions in prospectuses and other offering documents relating to offerings we underwrite. In such cases, any indemnification provisions in the applicable underwriting agreement may not be enforceable or available to us, for example, if the client is not financially able to satisfy its indemnification obligations in whole or part or the scope of the indemnity is not sufficient to protect us against financial or reputational losses arising from such liability. In addition, through indemnification provisions in our agreement with our clearing organization, customer activities may expose us to off-balance. 18. Table of Contents. sheet credit risk. We may have to purchase or sell securities at prevailing market prices in the event a customer fails to settle a trade on its original terms. We seek to manage the risks associated with customer trading activities through customer screening, internal review and trading procedures, but such procedures and processes may not be effective in all cases.. If the number of debt defaults or bankruptcies declines or other factors affect the demand for our restructuring services, our restructuring revenue could be adversely affected.. We provide financial advice and investment banking services to companies in financial transition, as well as to creditors, shareholders and potential acquirers. Our services may include reviewing and analyzing the business, financial condition and prospects of the company or providing advice on strategic transactions, capital raising or restructurings. We also may provide advisory services to companies that have sought or are planning to seek protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code or other similar processes in non-U.S. jurisdictions. A number of factors affect demand for these advisory services, including general economic conditions, the availability and cost of debt and equity financing, governmental policy and changes to laws, rules and regulations, including those that protect creditors. In addition, providing restructuring advisory services entails the risk that the transaction will be unsuccessful or take considerable time and be subject to a bankruptcy court's authority to disallow or discount our fees. If the number of debt defaults or bankruptcies declines or other factors affect the demand for our restructuring advisory services, our restructuring business would be adversely affected.. Risks Relating to Our Investment Management Business. The amount and mix of our AUM are subject to significant fluctuations.. The revenues and profitability of our Institutional Asset Management and Wealth Management businesses are derived from providing investment management and related services. The level of our revenues depends largely on the level and mix of AUM. Fluctuations in the amount and mix of our AUM may be attributable in part to market conditions outside of our control that have had, and in the future could have, a negative impact on our revenues and income. Any decrease in the value or amount of our AUM because of market volatility or other factors negatively impacts our revenues and income. We are subject to an increased risk of asset volatility from changes in the global financial and equity markets. Individual financial and equity markets may be adversely affected by economic, political, financial, or other instabilities that are particular to the country or regions in which a market is located, including without limitation local acts of terrorism, health emergencies, economic crises or other business, social or political crises. Declines in these markets have caused in the past, and may cause in the future, a decline in our revenues and income. Global economic conditions, exacerbated by war or terrorism, health emergencies or financial crises, changes in the equity market place, trade disputes, restrictions on travel, currency exchange rates, commodity prices, interest rates, inflation rates, the yield curve, and other factors that are difficult to predict affect the mix, market values and levels of our AUM. A decline in the price of stocks or bonds, or in particular market segments, or in the securities market generally, could cause the value and returns on our AUM to decline, resulting in a decline in our revenues and income. Moreover, changing market conditions may cause a shift in our asset mix between international and U.S. assets, potentially resulting in a decline in our revenue and income depending upon the nature of our AUM and the level of management fees we earn based on them. Additionally, changing market conditions may cause a shift in our asset mix towards fixed-income products and a related decline in our revenue and income, as in the U.S. we generally derive higher fee revenues and income from equity assets than from fixed-income products we manage.. If the funds we manage or invest in perform poorly, we will suffer a decline in our investment management revenue and earnings, and our Investment Management business may be adversely affected.. Revenue from our Institutional Asset Management and Wealth Management businesses is derived from fees earned for the management of client assets, generally based on the market value of AUM. Poor investment performance by these businesses, on an absolute basis or as compared to third-party benchmarks or competitors, could stimulate higher redemptions, thereby lowering AUM and reducing the fees we earn, even in periods when securities prices are generally rising. In addition, if the investments we make on behalf of our funds and clients perform poorly, it may be more difficult for us to attract new investors, launch new products or offer new services in our Institutional Asset Management or Wealth Management businesses. Furthermore, if the volatility in the U.S. and global markets cause a decline in the price of securities that constitutes a significant portion of our AUM, our clients could withdraw funds from, or be hesitant to invest in, our Investment Management business due to the uncertainty or volatility in the market or in favor of investments they perceive as offering greater opportunity or lower risk, which would also result in lower investment management revenue. In our investments in entities that manage private equity funds, our revenues include management fees based on committed or invested capital and performance fees. If our investments in private equity funds perform poorly, whether on a realized or unrealized basis, our revenues and earnings will suffer. Poor performance by our private equity investments may also make it more difficult for the private equity. 19. Table of Contents. funds we invest in to raise any new funds in the future or may result in such fundraising taking longer to complete than anticipated or may prevent them from raising such funds, which could negatively impact our share of future management and performance fees. In addition, to the extent that, over the life of the funds, we have received an amount of carried interest that exceeds a specified percentage of distributions made to the third-party investors in our funds, we may be obligated to repay the amount of this excess to the third-party investors.. Our Investment Management business' reliance on non-affiliated third-party service providers subjects the Company to operational risks.. We have entered into services agreements with third-party service providers for custodial services and trust and investment administration processing and reporting services. Our officers oversee and manage these relationships; however, poor oversight and control on our part or inferior performance or service on the part of the service providers could result in loss of customers, violation of applicable rules and regulations, including, but not limited to, privacy and anti-money laundering laws and otherwise adversely affect our business and operations.. Our agreements with the OCC require us to maintain and segregate certain assets, and our failure to comply with these agreements (including if we are required to access these assets for other purposes) could adversely affect us.. In connection with the organization of ETC, the OCC required the Company and Evercore LP to enter into a Capital and Liquidity Support Agreement, a Capital and Liquidity Maintenance Agreement and other related agreements (collectively, the \"OCC Agreements\"). The OCC Agreements require the Company's and Evercore LP's continuing obligation to provide ETC necessary capital and liquidity support in order to ensure that ETC continues to operate safely and soundly and in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. In particular, the OCC Agreements require that the Company and Evercore LP (1) maintain at least $5 million in Tier 1 capital in ETC or such other amount as the OCC may require and (2) maintain liquid assets in ETC in an amount at least equal to the greater of $3.5 million or 180 days coverage of ETC's operating expenses.. If we fail to comply with any of the OCC Agreements, we could become subject to civil money penalties, regulatory enforcement actions, payment of damages and, if the OCC deems it likely that we are unable to fulfill our obligations or breach the OCC Agreements, a forced disposition of ETC. The occurrence of any of these events or the disclosure that these events are probable or under consideration may cause reputational harm and erosion of client trust, due to a perception that we are unable to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, unable to successfully launch new initiatives and businesses, or that our reputation for integrity and high-caliber professional services is no longer valid, any of which could adversely affect our business and operations.. Valuation methodologies of the private equity funds in which we hold interests can be subject to significant subjectivity, and the values of assets established pursuant to such methodologies may never be realized, which could result in significant losses.. We have made principal investments in Glisco II, Glisco III, Trilantic IV and Trilantic V. These funds generally invest in relatively high-risk, illiquid assets. In addition, some of these investments are, or may in the future be, in industries or sectors which are unstable, in distress or undergoing some uncertainty. Such investments may be subject to rapid changes in value caused by sudden company-specific or industry-wide developments. Contributing capital to these funds is risky, and we may lose some or all of the principal amount of our investments. There are no regularly quoted market prices for a number of investments in the funds. The value of the investments in the funds is determined using fair value methodologies described in the funds' valuation policies, which may consider, among other things, the nature of the investment, the expected cash flows from the investment, bid or ask prices provided by third parties for the investment and the trading price of recent sales of securities (in the case of publicly-traded securities), restrictions on transfer and other recognized valuation methodologies. The methodologies used in valuing individual investments are based on estimates and assumptions specific to the particular investments. Therefore, the value of the investments does not necessarily reflect the prices that would actually be obtained on behalf of the fund when such investments are sold. Realizations at values significantly lower than the values at which investments have been reflected in fund values would result in losses for the applicable fund and the loss of potential incentive income and principal investments.. The limited partners of the private equity funds we invest in may terminate their relationship with us at any time.. The limited partnership agreements of the funds we invest in provide that the limited partners of each fund may terminate their relationship without cause with a simple majority vote of each fund's limited partners. If the limited partners of the funds we invest in terminate their relationship with such funds, we would lose management fees and carried interest from those funds.. 20. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Our International Operations. A meaningful portion of our revenues are derived from our international operations, which are subject to certain risks.. In 2017, we earned 27% of our Total Revenues, excluding Other Revenue, and 27% of our Investment Banking Revenues from clients and private equity funds located outside of the United States. We intend to grow our non-U.S. business, and this growth is critical to our overall success. Many of our larger clients for our Investment Banking business are non-U.S. entities seeking to enter into transactions involving U.S. businesses. Our international operations carry special financial and business risks, which could include, but are not limited to, the following:. • greater difficulties managing and staffing foreign operations;. • language and cultural differences;. • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates that could adversely affect our results;. • unexpected and costly changes in trading policies, regulatory requirements, tariffs and other barriers;. • restrictions on travel;. • greater difficulties in collecting accounts receivable;. • longer transaction cycles;. • higher operating costs;. • local labor conditions and regulations;. • adverse consequences or restrictions on the repatriation of earnings;. • potentially adverse tax consequences, such as trapped foreign losses;. • less stable political and economic environments; and. • civil disturbances or other catastrophic events that reduce business activity.. As part of our day-to-day operations outside of the United States, we are required to create compensation programs, employment policies, compliance policies and procedures and other administrative programs that comply with the laws of multiple countries. We also must communicate and monitor standards and directives across our global operations. Our failure to successfully manage and grow our geographically diverse operations could impair our ability to react quickly to changing business and market conditions and to enforce compliance with non-U.S. standards and procedures.. If our international business increases relative to our total business, these factors could have a more pronounced effect on our operating results. See also \" - Difficult market conditions may adversely affect our business in many ways, including reducing the volume of the transactions involving our Investment Banking business and reducing the value of the assets we manage in our Investment Management businesses, which, in each case, may materially reduce our revenue or income.\". Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our results.. Because our financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars and we receive a portion of our net revenue from continuing operations in other currencies, we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currencies. In addition, we pay certain of our expenses in such currencies. We have not entered into any transactions to hedge our exposure to these foreign exchange fluctuations through the use of derivative instruments or otherwise. An appreciation or depreciation of any of these currencies relative to the U.S. dollar would result in an adverse or beneficial impact, respectively, to our financial results. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may also affect the levels of our AUM and, as a result, our investment advisory fees.. Adverse economic conditions and political events in Mexico may result in disruptions to our business operations and adversely affect our revenue.. Our Mexican company has all of its assets located in Mexico and most of its revenue derived from operations in Mexico. As a financial services firm, our businesses in Mexico are materially affected by Mexico's financial markets and economic conditions. For example, a lack of liquidity in Mexican government bonds could have a material adverse effect on our ECB business. Historically, interest rates in Mexico have been volatile, particularly in times of economic unrest and uncertainty. Mexico has had, and may continue to have, high real and nominal interest rates. In addition, the Mexican government exercises significant influence over many aspects of the Mexican economy; therefore, political events in Mexico, including a change in state and municipal political leadership, may result in disruptions to our business operations and adversely affect its revenue. Any action by the government, including changes in the regulation of Mexico's financial sector, could have an adverse effect on the operations of our Mexican business, especially the asset management business.. Our Mexican business derives a significant portion of its revenue from advisory contracts with state and local governments in Mexico. The term limit system in Mexico may prevent us from maintaining relationships with the same clients. 21. Table of Contents. in the same political positions beyond these periods. After an election takes place, there is no guarantee that we will be able to remain as advisors of the new government, even if the new administration is of the same political party as the previous one.. The cost of compliance with international broker-dealer, employment, labor, benefits and tax regulations may adversely affect our business and hamper our ability to expand internationally.. Since we operate our business both in the U.S. and internationally, we are subject to many distinct broker-dealer, employment, labor, benefits and tax laws in each jurisdiction in which we operate, including regulations affecting our employment practices and our relations with our employees and service providers. If we are required to comply with new regulations or new interpretations of existing regulations, or if we are unable to comply with these regulations or interpretations, our business could be adversely affected or the cost of compliance may make it difficult to expand into new international markets. Additionally, our competitiveness in international markets may be adversely affected by regulations requiring, among other things, the awarding of contracts to local contractors, the employment of local citizens and/or the purchase of services from local businesses.. Risks Related to Our Organizational Structure. We are required to pay some of our Senior Managing Directors for most of the benefits relating to any additional tax depreciation or amortization deductions we may claim as a result of the tax basis step-up we received in connection with exchanges of Evercore LP partnership units (\"LP Units\") for shares and related transactions.. As of December 31, 2017, there were 3,533,968 vested Class A partnership units of Evercore LP (\"Class A LP Units\") held by some of our Senior Managing Directors that may in the future be exchanged for shares of our Class A common stock. The exchanges may result in increases in the tax basis of the assets of Evercore LP that otherwise would not have been available. These increases in tax basis may reduce the amount of tax that we would otherwise be required to pay in the future, although the IRS may challenge all or part of that tax basis increase, and a court could sustain such a challenge.. We have entered into a tax receivable agreement with some of our Senior Managing Directors that provides for the payment by us to these Senior Managing Directors of 85% of the amount of cash savings, if any, in U.S. federal, state and local income tax or franchise tax that we actually realize as a result of these increases in tax basis. While the actual increase in tax basis, as well as the amount and timing of any payments under this agreement, will vary depending upon a number of factors, including the timing of exchanges, the price of shares of our Class A common stock at the time of the exchange, the extent to which such exchanges are taxable, and the amount and timing of our income, we expect that, as a result of the size of the increases in the tax basis of the tangible and intangible assets of Evercore LP attributable to our interest in Evercore LP, during the expected term of the tax receivable agreement, the payments that we may make to our Senior Managing Directors could be substantial. Recent changes in tax legislation may modify the amounts paid under the agreement. For example the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act includes a permanent reduction in the federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, which will likely reduce future amounts to be paid under the agreement with respect to tax years beginning in 2018. In addition, there are numerous other provisions which may also have an impact on the amount of tax to be paid. To the extent that there are future changes or modifications to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act or other legislation that increases our federal corporate tax rate, our payment obligations under the tax receivable agreement could increase.. Although we are not aware of any issue that would cause the IRS to challenge a tax basis increase, Senior Managing Directors who receive payments will not reimburse us for any payments that may previously have been made under the tax receivable agreement. As a result, in certain circumstances we could make payments to some of the Senior Managing Directors under the tax receivable agreement in excess of our cash tax savings. Our ability to achieve benefits from any tax basis increase, and the payments to be made under this agreement, will depend upon a number of factors, as discussed above, including the timing and amount of our future income.. Our only material asset is our interest in Evercore LP, and we are accordingly dependent upon distributions from Evercore LP to pay dividends and taxes and other expenses.. The Company is a holding company and has no material assets other than its ownership of partnership units in Evercore LP. The Company has no independent means of generating revenue. We intend to cause Evercore LP to make distributions to its partners in an amount sufficient to cover all applicable taxes payable, other expenses and dividends, if any, declared by us.. Payments of dividends, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Company's board of directors after taking into account various factors, including:. • economic and business conditions;. 22. Table of Contents. • our financial condition and operating results;. • our available cash and current and anticipated cash needs;. • our capital requirements;. • applicable contractual, legal, tax and regulatory restrictions;. • implications of the payment of dividends by us to our stockholders or by our subsidiaries (including Evercore LP) to us; and. • such other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant.. In addition, Evercore LP is generally prohibited under Delaware law from making a distribution to a partner to the extent that, at the time of the distribution, after giving effect to the distribution, liabilities of Evercore LP (with certain exceptions) exceed the fair value of its assets. Furthermore, certain subsidiaries of Evercore LP may be subject to similar legal limitations on their ability to make distributions to Evercore LP. Moreover, our regulated subsidiaries may be subject to regulatory capital requirements that limit the distributions that may be made by those subsidiaries.. Deterioration in the financial condition, earnings or cash flow of Evercore LP and its subsidiaries for any reason could limit or impair their ability to pay such distributions. Additionally, to the extent that the Company requires funds and Evercore LP is restricted from making such distributions under applicable law or regulation or under the terms of financing arrangements, or is otherwise unable to provide such funds, our liquidity and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. As of December 31, 2017, Evercore LP and its consolidated subsidiaries had approximately $560 million in cash and cash equivalents available for distribution without prior regulatory approval. Certain of the amounts held in regulated entities are subject to advance notification requirements to the relevant regulatory body prior to distribution, which could delay access to such capital.. If Evercore Inc. were deemed an \"investment company\" under the 1940 Act as a result of its ownership of Evercore LP, applicable restrictions could make it impractical for us to continue our business as contemplated and could have a material adverse effect on our business.. If Evercore Inc. were to cease participation in the management of Evercore LP, its interest in Evercore LP could be deemed an \"investment security\" for purposes of the 1940 Act. Generally, a person is deemed to be an \"investment company\" if it owns investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of the value of its total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items), absent an applicable exemption. Evercore Inc. will have no material assets other than its equity interest in Evercore LP. A determination that this interest was an investment security could result in Evercore Inc. being an investment company under the 1940 Act and becoming subject to the registration and other requirements of the 1940 Act.. The 1940 Act and the rules thereunder contain detailed parameters for the organization and operations of investment companies. Among other things, the 1940 Act and the rules thereunder limit or prohibit transactions with affiliates, impose limitations on the issuance of debt and equity securities, prohibit the issuance of stock options, and impose certain governance requirements. We intend to conduct our operations so that Evercore Inc. will not be deemed to be an investment company under the 1940 Act. However, if anything were to happen which would cause Evercore Inc. to be deemed to be an investment company under the 1940 Act, requirements imposed by the 1940 Act, including limitations on our capital structure, ability to transact business with affiliates and ability to compensate key employees, could make it impractical for us to continue our business as currently conducted, impair the agreements and arrangements between and among Evercore Inc., Evercore LP or our Senior Managing Directors, or any combination thereof and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Class A Common Stock. Our Senior Managing Directors control a significant portion of the voting power in Evercore Inc., which may give rise to conflicts of interests.. Our Senior Managing Directors own shares of our Class A common stock and our Class B common stock. Our certificate of incorporation provides that the holders of the shares of our Class B common stock are entitled to a number of votes that is determined pursuant to a formula that relates to the number of LP Units held by such holders. Each holder of Class B common stock is entitled, without regard to the number of shares of Class B common stock held by such holder, to one vote for each partnership unit in Evercore LP held by such holder. Our Senior Managing Directors, and certain trusts benefiting their families, collectively have a significant portion of the voting power in Evercore Inc. As a result, our Senior Managing Directors have the. 23. Table of Contents. ability to exercise influence over the election of the members of our board of directors and, therefore, influence over our management and affairs, including determinations with respect to acquisitions, dispositions, borrowings, issuances of common stock or other securities, and the declaration and payment of dividends. In addition, they are able to exercise influence over the outcome of all matters requiring stockholder approval. This concentration of ownership could deprive our Class A stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company and might ultimately affect the market price of our Class A common stock.. Our share price may decline or we may have a significant increase in the number of shares of common stock outstanding due to the large number of shares eligible for future sale and for exchange.. The market price of our Class A common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of Class A common stock in the market or the perception that such sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate.. Further, we have historically repurchased a significant number of shares of our Class A common stock in the open market.  If we were to cease or were unable to repurchase shares of Class A common stock, or choose to allocate available capital to the repayment of borrowings, the number of shares outstanding would increase over time, diluting the ownership of existing stockholders.. As of December 31, 2017, we had a total of 39,102,154 shares of our Class A common stock outstanding. In addition, our current and former Senior Managing Directors own an aggregate of 3,533,968 Class A LP Units, which were all fully vested as of December 31, 2017. Further, in conjunction with our acquisition of the operating businesses of International Strategy & Investment (\"ISI\") and our acquisition of the noncontrolling interest in our Institutional Equities business that we did not already own, we issued consideration in the form of vested and unvested Class E limited partnership units of Evercore LP (\"Class E LP Units\") and vested and unvested Class G and H limited partnership interests of Evercore LP (\"Class G and H LP Interests\") (which convert into Class E LP Units based on the satisfaction of multi-year performance goals). In July 2017, the Company exchanged all of the outstanding Class H LP Interests for a number of Class J limited partnership units of Evercore LP (\"Class J LP Units\"), which convert into Class E LP Units and ultimately become exchangeable into Class A Shares on a one-for-one basis. As of December 31, 2017, there were 1,901,088 vested Class E LP Units and 1,945,169 vested and unvested Class J LP Units outstanding. In addition, in conjunction with the appointment of the Executive Chairman in November 2016, we issued 400,000 unvested Class I-P units of Evercore LP (\"Class I-P Units\") which convert into Class I limited partnership units of Evercore LP (\"Class I LP Units\") based on the achievement of certain market and service conditions. Further, in November 2017, we issued 63,992 unvested Class K-P units of Evercore LP (\"Class K-P Units\") which convert into Class K limited partnership units of Evercore LP (\"Class K LP Units\") based on the achievement of certain defined benchmark results. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation allows the exchange of Class A, Class E, Class I and Class K LP Units (other than those held by us) for shares of our Class A common stock on a one-for-one basis, subject to customary conversion rate adjustments for stock splits, stock dividends and reclassifications. The shares of Class A common stock issuable upon exchange of the partnership units that are held by our Senior Managing Directors and certain other employees of the Company are eligible for resale from time to time, subject to certain contractual and Securities Act restrictions.. As of February 15, 2018, we had a total of 48,228,429 shares of Class A common stock outstanding and units and interests which were convertible, or potentially convertible, into Class A common stock. This is comprised of 41,243,531 shares of our Class A common stock outstanding, 2,887,855 Class A LP Units, 2,336,295 Class E LP Units, 1,296,756 Class J LP Units, 400,000 Class I-P Units and 63,992 Class K-P Units.. Further, as part of annual bonuses and incentive compensation, we award restricted stock units (\"RSUs\") to employees, as well as to new hires. As of December 31, 2017, 6,423,269 RSUs issued pursuant to the Amended and Restated 2016 Evercore Inc. Stock Incentive Plan (the \"2016 Plan\") and the Amended and Restated 2006 Evercore Inc. Stock Incentive Plan were outstanding. Of these RSUs, 113,860 were fully vested and 6,309,409 were unvested. Each RSU represents the holder's right to receive one share of our Class A common stock following the applicable vesting date. Should we issue RSUs in excess of the amount remaining as authorized for issuance under the Evercore Inc. 2016 Stock Incentive Plan, these awards would be accounted for as liability awards, with changes in the fair value of these awards reflected as compensation expense until authorization is obtained.. Some of our Senior Managing Directors are parties to registration rights agreements with us. Under these agreements, these persons have the ability to cause us to register the shares of our Class A common stock they could acquire.. 24. Table of Contents. The market price of our Class A common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of our Class A common stock to decline.. Securities markets worldwide experience significant price and volume fluctuations. This market volatility, as well as general economic, market or political conditions, could reduce the market price of our Class A common stock in spite of our operating performance. In addition, our operating results could be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, and in response, the market price of our Class A common stock could decrease significantly.. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control.. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable by permitting our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock, requiring advance notice for stockholder proposals and nominations and placing limitations on convening stockholder meetings. In addition, we are subject to provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law that restrict certain business combinations with interested stockholders. These provisions may also discourage acquisition proposals or delay or prevent a change in control, which could harm our stock price."
