[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. In addition to the general investment risks and those factors set forth throughout this document, including those set forth under the caption \"Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Information,\" the following risks should be considered regarding our company.. We have a history of losses and a high fixed cost operating base and may not be able to achieve or maintain profitable operations in the future.. We experienced operating income (losses) of approximately $3.2 million, $(2.0) million and $(8.7) million in fiscal 2017, fiscal 2016 and fiscal 2015.  We reported net income (losses) of $0.1 million, $(8.7) million and $(12.3) million in fiscal 2017, fiscal 2016 and fiscal 2015.  There is no assurance that we will be able to achieve or maintain profitable operations in future fiscal years.. Our television shopping business operates with a high fixed cost base, primarily driven by fixed fees under distribution agreements with cable and direct-to-home satellite providers to carry our programming.  In order to operate on a profitable basis, we must reach and maintain sufficient annual sales revenues to cover our high fixed cost base and/or negotiate a reduction in this cost structure.  If our sales levels are not sufficient to cover our operating expenses, our ability to reduce operating expenses in the near term will be limited by the fixed cost base. In that case, our earnings, cash balance and growth prospects could be materially adversely affected.. We have had a historic trend of operating losses, which, if not reversed, could reduce our operating cash resources to the point where we will not have sufficient liquidity to meet the ongoing cash commitments and obligations to continue operating our business.. As of February 3, 2018, we had approximately $23.9 million in unrestricted cash, with an additional $0.5 million of restricted cash and investments.  We expect to use our cash and available credit line to finance our working capital requirements and to make necessary capital expenditures in order to operate our business and to fund any further operating losses.  We have had a historic trend of operating losses, which, if not reversed, could reduce our operating cash resources to the point where we would not be able to adequately fund working capital requirements or necessary capital expenditures.. The Company has a credit and security agreement (as amended through September 25, 2017, the \"PNC Credit Facility\") with PNC Bank, N.A. (\"PNC\"), a member of The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc., as lender and agent.  The PNC Credit Facility, which includes CIBC Bank USA (formerly known as The Private Bank) as part of the facility, provides a revolving line of credit of $90.0 million and provides for a term loan on which we had originally drawn to fund improvements at our distribution facility in Bowling Green, Kentucky and subsequently, to pay down our GACP Term Loan (as defined below).  The PNC Credit Facility also provides an accordion feature that would allow us to expand the size of the revolving line of credit by an additional $25.0 million at the discretion of the lenders and upon certain conditions being met.  On March 21, 2017, the Company entered into the Eighth Amendment to the PNC Credit Facility, which among other things, increased the term loan by $6,000,000, extended the term of the PNC Credit Facility from May 1, 2020 to March 21, 2022, and authorized the proceeds from the term loan to be used as part of a voluntary prepayment of $9,500,000 on its GACP Term Loan.. All borrowings under the PNC Credit Facility mature and are payable on March 21, 2022.  Maximum borrowings and available capacity under the amended revolving PNC Credit Facility are equal to the lesser of $90 million or a calculated borrowing base comprised of eligible accounts receivable and eligible inventory.  Remaining capacity under the PNC Credit Facility, was $18.4 million as of February 3, 2018.. On March 10, 2016, we entered into a five-year term loan credit and security agreement (as amended through September 25, 2017, the \"GACP Credit Agreement\") with GACP Finance Co., LLC (\"GACP\") for a term loan of $17 million.  Proceeds from the GACP Term Loan were used to provide for working capital and general corporate purposes and to help strengthen our total liquidity position.  During fiscal 2017, we made three voluntary principal prepayments which satisfied all outstanding debt under the GACP Term Loan.. We have significant future commitments for our cash, which primarily include payments for cable and satellite program distribution obligations and the eventual repayment of the PNC Credit Facility.  Based on our current projections for fiscal 2018, we believe that our existing cash balances and available credit line will be sufficient to maintain liquidity to fund our normal business operations over the next twelve months.  However, the PNC Credit Facility includes certain restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness or prepay existing indebtedness, to create liens or other encumbrances, to sell or otherwise dispose of assets, and to merge or consolidate with other entities, which may be necessary in times of liquidity constraints.  Therefore, there can be no assurance that, if required, we would be able to raise additional capital or reduce spending to have sufficient liquidity to meet our ongoing cash commitments and obligations to continue operating our business.. 13. Table of Contents. Our stock price has experienced a significant decline, which could further adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital and/or cause us to be subject to securities class action litigation.. The market price of our common stock has experienced a significant decline from which it has not fully recovered.  In 2015, the sales price of our common stock, as reported on the Nasdaq Global Market, declined from a high of $6.99 in the first quarter of 2015 to a low of $0.41 in the first quarter of 2016.  Most recently, on April 4, 2018, the market price of our common stock, as reported on the Nasdaq Global Market, closed at a price of $0.99 per share.  Our progress in developing and commercializing our products, our quarterly operating results, announcements of new products by us or our competitors, our perceived prospects, changes in securities' analysts' recommendations or earnings estimates, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets, adverse events related to our strategic relationships, significant sales of our common stock by existing stockholders and other developments affecting us or our competitors could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially.  In addition, in recent years the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance. These market fluctuations, regardless of the cause, may materially and adversely affect our stock price, regardless of our operating results. In addition, we may be subject to securities class action litigation as a result of volatility in the price of our common stock, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of management's attention and resources and could harm our stock price, business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition.. Although we are currently in compliance with the Nasdaq Global Market listing standards, we may not be able to meet the continued listing requirements in the future, which require, among other things, a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share for our listed common stock. While we would consider implementation of customary options, including a reverse stock split, if our common stock does not trade at the required level that regains compliance, if our efforts are unsuccessful or we are otherwise unable to satisfy the Nasdaq criteria for maintaining our listing, our common stock could be subject to delisting. In the event of a delisting, we could face significant material adverse consequences including: increased difficulty in our shareholders' ability to dispose of our common stock; a limited availability of market quotations for our common stock; a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; a decrease in the market price of our common stock; and a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future.. Our long-term success depends, in large part, on our continued ability to attract new and retain existing customers in a cost-effective manner.. In an effort to attract and retain customers, we use considerable funds and resources for various marketing and merchandising initiatives, particularly for the production and distribution of television programming and the updating of our digital strategy to increasingly engage customers through digital channels and social media. These initiatives, however, may not resonate with existing customers or consumers generally or may not be cost-effective.. We believe that costs associated with the production and distribution of our television programming and costs associated with digital marketing, including search engine marketing and social media marketing, are likely to increase in the foreseeable future.  Our digital business depends on a high degree of website traffic, which is dependent on many factors, including the availability of appealing website content, user loyalty and new user generation from search engine portals.  In obtaining a significant amount of website traffic through search engines, we utilize techniques such as search engine optimization and search engine marketing to improve our placement in relevant search queries.  Search engines, including Google, frequently update and change the logic that determines the placement and display of a user's search, such that the purchased or algorithmic placement of links to our websites can be negatively affected. Moreover, a search engine could, for competitive or other purposes, alter its search algorithms or results causing our website to place lower in search query results. If a major search engine changes its algorithms in a manner that negatively affects our paid or unpaid search ranking, or if competitive dynamics impact the effectiveness of our search engine optimization and search engine marketing in a negative manner, the business and financial performance of our digital commerce business could be adversely affected.  Furthermore, the failure to successfully manage our search engine optimization and search engine marketing strategies could result in a substantial decrease in traffic to our website, as well as increased costs if we were to replace free traffic with paid traffic.  Even if our online commerce businesses are successful in generating a high level of website traffic, no assurance can be given that our business will be successful in achieving repeat user loyalty or that new visitors will explore the offerings on our site.  Monetizing this traffic by converting users to consumers is dependent on many factors, including availability of inventory, consumer preferences, price, ease of use and website quality.  No assurance can be given that the fees paid to search portals will not exceed the revenue generated by our website visitors.  Any failure to sustain user traffic or to monetize such traffic could materially adversely affect the financial performance of our business and, as a result, adversely affect our financial results.  In addition, customers continue to increase their expectations for faster delivery times with free or reduced shipping prices.  Increased delivery costs, particularly if we are unable to offset them by increasing prices without a detrimental effect on customer demand, and the extent to which we offer shipping promotions to our customers, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 14. Table of Contents. Covenants in our debt agreements restrict our business in many ways.. The PNC Credit Facility contains various covenants that limit our ability and/or our subsidiaries' ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness or prepay existing indebtedness, to create liens or other encumbrances, to sell or otherwise dispose of assets, to merge or consolidate with other entities, and to make certain restricted payments, including payments of dividends to common shareholders.  In addition, certain financial covenants, including minimum EBITDA levels and a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, become applicable if unrestricted cash plus facility availability falls below $10.8 million or upon an event of default.  Please refer to Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources-Sources of Liquidity\" below for a discussion of the PNC Credit Facility.  Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the PNC Credit Facility, the lender could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the PNC Credit Facility to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lender could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness.  The PNC Credit Facility is secured by substantially all of the Company's personal property, as well as the Company's real properties located in Eden Prairie, Minnesota and Bowling Green, Kentucky.  If the lender and counter parties under the PNC Credit Facility accelerate the repayment of obligations, we may not have sufficient assets to repay such obligations. Our borrowings under the PNC Credit Facility are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk.  If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness will also increase even though the amount borrowed remains the same, and our net income would decrease.. Our inability to recruit and retain key employees may adversely impact our ability to sustain growth.. Our growth is contingent, in part, on our ability to retain and recruit employees who have the distinct skills necessary for a business that demands knowledge of the general retail industry, merchandising and product sourcing, television production, televised and internet-based marketing and fulfillment.  In recent years, we have experienced significant senior management turnover, including the resignation of Mark C. Bozek as our Chief Executive Officer and as a member of our board of directors and the appointment of Robert Rosenblatt as interim Chief Executive Officer, effective February 8, 2016, and permanent Chief Executive Officer, effective August 18, 2016.  The marketplace for such key employees is very competitive and limited. Our growth may be adversely impacted if we are unable to attract and retain key employees.  In addition, turnover of senior management can adversely impact our stock price, our results of operations, our vendor relationships and may make recruiting for future management positions more difficult. Further we may incur significant expenses related to any executive transition costs that may impact our operating results.  For example, in fiscal 2017, fiscal 2016 and fiscal 2015, the Company recorded charges to income of $2.1 million, $4.4 million and $3.5 million related to executive and management transition costs incurred, which included severance payments that our former Chief Executive Officer and certain other terminated executive and senior officers received.. Changes in technology and in consumer viewing patterns may negatively impact our video content viewing and could result in a decrease in revenue.. As a multiplatform interactive digital commerce retail business, we are dependent on our ability to attract and retain viewers and must successfully adapt to technological advances in the media entertainment industry, including the emergence of alternative distribution platforms, such as digital video recorders, video-on-demand and subscription video-on-demand (e.g., Netflix, Hulu, Amazon Prime).  New technologies affect the manner in which our programming is distributed to consumers, the sources and nature of competing content offerings, and the time and manner in which consumers view our programming.  This trend has impacted the traditional forms of distribution, as evidenced by the industry-wide decline in ratings for broadcast television, the development of alternative distribution channels for broadcast and cable programming and declines in cable and satellite subscriber levels across the industry. In order to respond to these developments, we have developed a multiplatform distribution approach, including delivering our content over various streaming applications such as Roku and Apple TV and distribution through social media platforms.  However, there can be no assurance that we will successfully respond to these changes which could result in a loss of viewership and a decrease in revenue.. The failure to secure suitable placement for our television programming could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain television viewers and could result in a decrease in revenue.. We are dependent upon our ability to compete for television viewers. Effectively competing for television viewers is dependent, in part, on our ability to secure placement of our television programming within a suitable programming tier at a desirable channel position. The majority of multi-video programming distributors now offer programming on a digital basis, which has resulted in increased channel capacity. While the growth of digital cable and these other systems may over time make it possible for our programming to be more widely distributed, there are several risks as well. The primary risks associated with the growth of digital cable and alternative digital platforms are demonstrated by the following:. • we could experience declines in sales per digital tier subscriber because of the increased number of channels offered on digital systems competing for the same number of viewers and the less desirable location we typically are assigned in digital tiers;. 15. Table of Contents. • more competitors may enter the marketplace as additional channel capacity is added;. • we may not be able to successfully negotiate renewal terms for our programming distribution agreements that are favorable to us or that offer our programming to viewers within a suitable programming tier at a desirable channel position;. • more programming options being available to the viewing public in the form of new television networks and time-shifted viewing (e.g., personal video recorders, video-on-demand, interactive television and streaming video over broadband internet connections as well as increased access to various media through wireless devices);. • cable, satellite, and telecommunication providers are facing competition from new services which could result in a loss of subscribers; and. • our effective costs of distribution may increase as we deliver programming in multiple channel locations unless we secure increases in customers.. New technologies have been and are expected to continue to be developed that increase the number of entertainment choices available and the manners in which they are delivered.  Failure to adapt to these risks will result in lower revenue and may adversely impact our results of operations. In addition, failure to anticipate and adapt to technological changes in a cost-effective manner that meets customer demands and evolving industry standards will also reduce our revenue, adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition and have a negative impact on our business.. We may not be able to expand or could lose some of our existing programming distribution if we cannot negotiate profitable distribution agreements.. We continue to seek reductions in the costs associated with our cable and satellite distribution agreements.  However, there can be no assurance that we will achieve cost reductions in the future or that we will be able to maintain or grow our households on financial terms that are profitable to us.  Terms of certain of our distribution agreements allow for increases or decreases in our distribution costs as a result of a variety of factors, not all of which are within our control.  These factors include, but are not limited to, increases or decreases in the number of subscribers receiving our programming, channel placement changes, the addition of a second channel or other factors.  Significant changes to these factors could result in a material increase in our cost of distribution.  If we are unable to negotiate new or renewal terms in our distribution agreements that are equal or more favorable to us, our distribution costs could increase.  In addition, the continued consolidation of the pay television operator industry could cause us to lose leverage when negotiating new agreements or result in less favorable terms.  Further, it is possible that we may need to reduce our programming distribution in certain systems if we are unable to obtain appropriate financial contract terms. Failure to successfully renew agreements covering a material portion of our existing cable and satellite households on acceptable financial and other terms could adversely affect our future growth, sales revenues and earnings unless we are able to arrange for alternative means of broadly distributing our television programming.. Competition in the general merchandise retailing industry and particularly the live television shopping and e-commerce sectors could limit our growth and reduce our profitability.. As a general merchandise retailer, we compete for consumers with other forms of retail businesses, including other television shopping and e-commerce retailers, infomercial companies, other types of consumer retail businesses, including traditional \"brick and mortar\" department stores, discount stores, warehouse stores, specialty stores, catalog and mail order retailers and other direct sellers.  In the competitive television shopping sector, we compete with QVC, HSN, and Jewelry Television, as well as a number of smaller start-up and \"niche\" television shopping competitors. QVC and HSN both are substantially larger than we are in terms of annual revenues and customers, their programming is more broadly available to U.S. households than is our programming and in many markets they have more favorable channel positions than we have.  The video commerce industry is also highly competitive, with numerous e-commerce websites competing in every product category we carry, in addition to the websites operated by the other television shopping companies.  This competition in the internet retailing sector makes it more challenging and expensive for us to attract new customers, retain existing customers and maintain desired gross margin levels.. Our business, financial condition and results of operations are negatively influenced by economic conditions that impact consumer spending.  If macroeconomic conditions do not continue to improve or if conditions worsen, our business could be adversely affected.. Retailers generally are particularly sensitive to adverse economic and business conditions, in particular to the extent they result in a loss of consumer confidence and a decrease in consumer spending, particularly discretionary spending.  If macroeconomic conditions do not continue to improve or if conditions worsen, it could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 16. Table of Contents. We may not be able to maintain our satellite services in certain situations, beyond our control, which may cause our programming to go off the air for a period of time and cause us to incur substantial additional costs.. Our programming is presently distributed to cable systems, full-power television stations and satellite dish operators via a leased communications satellite transponder.  Satellite service may be interrupted due to a variety of circumstances beyond our control, such as satellite transponder failure, satellite fuel depletion, governmental action, preemption by the satellite service provider, solar activity and service failure.  Our satellite transponder agreement provides us with preemptible back-up service if satellite transmission is interrupted under certain conditions.  In the event of a serious transmission interruption where back-up service is not available, we may need to enter into new arrangements, resulting in substantial additional costs and the inability to broadcast our signal for some period of time.. We may be subject to product liability claims if people or properties are harmed by products sold by us, or we may be subject to voluntary or involuntary product recalls, or subject to liability for on-air statements made by our hosts or guest-hosts.. Products sold by us may expose us to product liability or product safety claims relating to personal injury, death or property damage caused by such products and may require us to take actions such as product recalls, which could involve significant expense incurred by the Company.. We maintain, and have generally required the manufacturers and vendors of these products to carry, product liability and errors and omissions insurance. We also require that our vendors fully indemnify us for such claims.  There can be no assurance that we will maintain this insurance coverage or obtain additional coverage on acceptable terms, or that this insurance will provide adequate coverage against all potential claims or even be available with respect to any particular claim. There also can be no assurance that our suppliers will continue to maintain this insurance or that this coverage will be adequate or available with respect to any particular claims or will fulfill their contractual indemnification duties. Product liability claims could result in a material adverse impact on our financial performance.. We may also be subject to involuntary product recalls or we may voluntarily conduct a product recall. The costs associated with product recalls individually or in the aggregate in any given fiscal year, or for any particular recall event, could be significant. Although we maintain product recall insurance and we require that our vendors fully indemnify us for such events, an involuntary product recall could result in a material adverse impact on our financial performance. In addition, any product recall, regardless of direct costs of the recall, may harm consumer perceptions of our products and have a negative impact on our future revenues and results of operations.. In addition, the live unscripted nature of our television broadcasting may subject us to misrepresentation or false advertising claims by our customers, the Federal Trade Commission and state attorneys general. Our Company is subject to two FTC consent decrees, one issued in 2001 and one issued in 2003; both have a duration of 20 years.  They consist of claims involving recordkeeping, compliance policies, and attention to detail on claim substantiation. Violations of these decrees could result in significant civil fines and penalties.. Our ValuePay installment payment program could lead to significant unplanned credit losses if our credit loss rate materially deteriorates.. We utilize an installment payment program called ValuePay that enables customers to purchase merchandise and pay for the merchandise in two or more monthly installments. Our ValuePay installment program is a key element of our promotional strategy.  As of February 3, 2018, we had approximately $88.5 million due from customers under the ValuePay installment program. We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. There is no guarantee that we will continue to experience the same credit loss rate that we have in the past or that losses will be within current provisions. A significant increase in our credit losses above what we have been experiencing could result in a material adverse impact on our financial performance.. Failure to comply with existing laws, rules and regulations applicable to our company, or to obtain and maintain required licenses and rights, could subject us to additional liabilities.. We market and provide a broad range of merchandise and services through multiple channels. As a result, we are subject to a wide variety of statutes, rules, regulations, policies and procedures in various jurisdictions which are subject to change at any time, including laws regarding consumer protection, privacy, the regulation of retailers generally, the labeling, importation, sale and advertising or promotion of merchandise, sweepstakes and contests and the operation of warehouse facilities, as well as laws and regulations applicable to the internet, electronic devices and businesses engaged in e-commerce. These laws and regulations may cover subject matters including taxation, privacy, data protection, pricing, payment processing, employment, content, intellectual property, distribution, mobile communications, electronic device certification, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, unencumbered internet access to our services, the design and operation of websites and the characteristics and quality of our products and services.  Although we undertake to monitor changes in these laws, if these. 17. Table of Contents. laws change without our knowledge, or are violated by importers, designers, vendors, manufacturers or distributors or other third-parties with which we do business, we could experience delays in shipments and receipt of goods or be subject to fines or other penalties under the controlling regulations, any of which could adversely affect our business.  In addition, our failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in fines and proceedings against us by governmental agencies and consumers, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, unfavorable changes in the laws, rules and regulations applicable to us could decrease demand for merchandise offered by us, increase costs and subject us to additional liabilities. Finally, certain of these regulations impact our marketing efforts.. We may be subject to claims by consumers and state and federal authorities for security breaches involving customer information, which could materially harm our reputation and business or add significant administrative and compliance cost to our operations.. In order to operate our business, which includes multiple retail channels, we take orders for our products from customers. This requires us to obtain personal information from these customers including, but not limited to, credit card numbers. Although we take reasonable and appropriate security measures to protect customer information, there is still the risk that external or internal security breaches or digital or telecommunications spoofing could occur, including cyber incidents. In addition, new tools and discoveries by third parties in computer or communications technology or software or other developments may facilitate or result in a future compromise or breach of our computer systems. Such compromises or breaches could result in data loss and/or identity theft leading to significant liability or costs to us from notification requirements, lawsuits brought by consumers, shareholders or other businesses seeking monetary redress, state and federal authorities for fines and penalties, and could also lead to interruptions in our operations and negative publicity causing damage to our reputation and limiting customers' willingness to purchase products from us.  Businesses in the retail industry have experienced material sales declines after discovering data breaches, and our business could be similarly impacted.  Reputational value is based in large part on perceptions of subjective qualities.  While reputations may take decades to build, a significant negative incident can erode trust and confidence, particularly if it results in adverse mainstream and social media publicity, governmental investigations or litigation.  Theft of credit card numbers of consumers could result in significant fines and consumer settlement costs, litigation costs, FTC audit requirements, and significant internal administrative costs.. In addition to possible claims for security breaches involving customer information, the secure processing, maintenance and transmission of customer information is critical to our operations and business strategy, and we devote significant resources to protect our customer information.  The expenses associated with complying with a patchwork of state laws imposing differing security requirements depending on the residence of our customers could reduce our operating margins. As mentioned above, there have been continuing efforts to increase the legal and regulatory obligations and restrictions on companies conducting commerce, primarily in the areas of taxation, consumer privacy and protection of consumer personal information, and we may have to devote significant resources to information security.. Nearly all of our sales are paid for by customers using credit or debit cards and the increasingly heightened Payment Card Industry (PCI) standards regarding the storage and security of customer information could potentially impact our ability to accept card brands.. Nearly all of our customers pay for purchases via a credit or debit card. Credit and debit card brand issuers continue to heighten PCI standards that are applicable to all merchants who accept these cards. These standards primarily pertain to the processes and procedures for encrypted use and secure storage of customer data. By virtue of the volume of our overall credit card transactions, we are a Level 1 merchant which requires the annual completion of a formal Report of Compliance (\"ROC\") by a Qualified Security Assessor.  Failure to comply with PCI standards, as required by card issuers, could result in card brand fines and/or the possible inability for us to accept a card brand. Our inability to accept one or all card brands could materially adversely affect sales.  Although we received an approved ROC on July 28, 2017, there is no guarantee that we will continue to receive such approvals.. We depend on relationships with numerous manufacturers and suppliers for our products and proprietary brands; a decrease in product quality or an increase in product cost, the unanticipated loss of our larger suppliers, or the lack of customer receptivity or brand acceptance to our proprietary brands could impact our sales.. We procure merchandise from numerous manufacturers and suppliers generally pursuant to short-term contracts and purchase orders. Our ability to identify, establish and maintain relationships with these parties, as well as access quality merchandise in a timely and efficient manner on acceptable terms and at acceptable costs, can be challenging. We depend on the ability of these parties to timely produce and deliver goods that meet applicable quality standards, which is impacted by a number of factors not within the control of these parties, such as political or financial instability, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, and transport capacity and costs, among others, and to deliver products that meet or exceed our customers' expectations.. 18. Table of Contents. Our failure to identify new vendors and manufacturers, maintain relationships with a significant number of existing vendors and manufacturers and/or access quality merchandise in a timely and efficient manner could cause us to miss customer delivery dates or delay scheduled promotions, which could result in the failure to meet customer expectations and could cause customers to cancel orders or cause us to be unable to source merchandise in sufficient quantities, which could result in lost sales.. It is possible that one or more of our larger suppliers could experience financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, or otherwise could determine to cease doing business with us. During fiscal 2017, products purchased from one vendor accounted for approximately 15% of our consolidated net sales. The unanticipated loss of this supplier or any other large supplier could impact our sales and earnings. We have periodically experienced the loss of a major vendor and if a number of our larger vendors ceased doing business with us, this could materially and adversely impact our sales and profitability.. Our efforts to accelerate the development of proprietary brands may require working capital investments for the development and promotion of new brands and concepts.  In addition, factors such as minimum purchase quantities and reduced merchandise return rights, typically associated with the purchasing of products associated with proprietary brands, can lead to excess on-hand inventory if sales of these brands do not meet our expectations due to a lack of customer receptivity or brand acceptance.  Our ability to successfully offer a wider assortment of proprietary merchandise may also be adversely impacted if any of the risks mentioned above related to our manufacturers and suppliers materialize.. If we do not manage our inventory effectively, our sales, gross profit and profitability could be adversely affected. Our profitability depends on our ability to manage appropriate inventory levels and respond quickly to shifts in consumer demand patterns.  We are also exposed to significant inventory risks that may adversely affect our operating results as a result of seasonality, new product launches, rapid changes in product cycles, trends and pricing, defective merchandise, spoilage, and other factors. Additionally, the acquisition of certain types of inventory may require significant lead-time and prepayment and they may not be returnable. If we do not identify and respond to emerging trends in consumer spending and preferences quickly enough, we may harm our ability to retain our existing customers or attract new customers. If we purchase too much inventory, we may be forced to sell our merchandise at lower average margins through increased markdowns, which could adversely affect our results of operations, our overall gross margins and our profitability.. A natural disaster or significant weather event could seriously impact our ability to operate, including our ability to broadcast, operate websites, process and fulfill transactions, respond to customer inquiries and generally maintain cost-efficient operations.. Our television broadcast studios, internet operations, IT systems, merchandising team, inventory control systems, executive offices and finance/accounting functions, among others, are centralized in our adjacent offices at 6740 and 6690, Shady Oak Road in Eden Prairie, Minnesota. In addition, our only fulfillment and distribution facility is centralized at a location in Bowling Green, Kentucky. Fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, acts of war or terrorism, acts of God and similar events or disruptions may damage or interrupt our broadcast, computer, broadband or other communications systems and infrastructures, including the distribution of our network to our customers, at any time. While we have certain business continuity plans in place, no assurances can be given as to how quickly we would be able to resume operations and how long it may take to return to normal operations. We could incur substantial financial losses above and beyond what may be covered by applicable insurance policies, and may experience a loss of sales, customers, vendors and employees during the recovery period.. A natural disaster or significant weather event could materially interfere with our customers' ability to receive our broadcast or reach us to purchase our products and services.. Our operations rely on our customers' access to third party content distribution networks, communications providers and utilities like cable, satellite and over-the-top television services, as well as internet, telephone and power utilities. A natural disaster or significant weather event could make one or more of these third-party services unavailable to our customers and could lead to the deferral or loss of sales of our goods and services.. We could be subject to additional sales tax collection obligations and claims for uncollected amounts.. Over the past several years, a number of states have adopted legislation that require out-of-state retailers to collect and remit sales tax on transactions originating on the internet or by other remote means such as television shopping, infomercial and catalog distribution (\"Remote Sellers\").  These new laws seek to assert indirect physical \"nexus\" by the out-of-state retailer based on (i) the presence in the state of e-commerce \"click-thru\" affiliates who are paid by the retailer to direct e-commerce traffic to the retailer through independent websites or (ii) by the presence in the state of companies with which the out-of-state retailer shares common ownership or (iii) by generating sales above certain thresholds within the state.  These laws are being challenged by internet and other retailers under federal constitutional grounds, but court challenges have to date been largely unsuccessful.  We continually monitor this legislation and, depending upon our facts in the state, have either registered to collect tax (such as in New York, North Carolina, Colorado, Pennsylvania and Alabama) or have confirmed that we have no direct or indirect physical relationships with. 19. Table of Contents. the state at the time such legislation becomes effective.  In January 2018, the Supreme Court of the United States agreed to hear a case (South Dakota v. Wayfair, Inc.) which could dramatically increase the ability of states to impose sales tax collection responsibilities on Remote Sellers including the Company.  In addition, several new state legislatures are introducing similar legislation each year, and federal legislation, which could require nationwide collection from all of our customers, has also been introduced in the federal House and Senate.  If the Supreme Court upholds South Dakota's broad nexus statute for Remote Sellers or the trend toward expanded nexus continues at the federal and state legislative level and the laws are upheld after legal challenges, we could be required to collect additional state and local sales taxes in many additional jurisdictions.  Adding sales tax to our transactions could negatively impact consumer demand, create a competitive disadvantage (if all retailers are not equally impacted), and create an additional costly administrative burden of complying with the collection laws of multiple jurisdictions.  While we believe we comply with current state sales tax regulations, a successful assertion by one or more states requiring us to collect taxes where we do not do so could result in substantial tax liabilities, including for past sales, as well as penalties and interest.. We significantly rely on technology and information management tools and operational applications to run our existing businesses, the failure of which could adversely impact our operations.. Our businesses are dependent, in part, on the use of sophisticated technology, some of which is provided to us by third parties. These technologies include, but are not necessarily limited to, satellite based transmission of our programming, use of the internet and other mobile commerce devices in relation to our on-line business, new digital technology used to manage and supplement our television broadcast operations, the age of our legacy operational  applications to distribute product to our customers and a network of complex computer hardware and software to manage an ever increasing need for information and information management tools. The failure of any of these legacy systems or operational infrastructure elements, technologies, or our inability to have this technology supported, updated, expanded or integrated into new business processes or other technologies, could adversely impact our operations.  Although we have, when possible, developed alternative sources of technology and built redundancy into our computer networks and tools, there can be no assurance that these efforts to date would protect us against all potential issues or disaster occurrences related to the loss of any such technologies or their use.  Further, we may face challenges in keeping pace with rapid technological changes and adopting new products or platforms and migrating to new systems.. We rely on a limited number of independent shipping companies to deliver our merchandise.  If our independent shipping companies fail to deliver our merchandise in a timely and accurate manner, our reputation and brand may be damaged.  If relationships with our independent shipping companies are terminated, we may experience an increase in delivery costs.. We rely on a limited number of shipping companies to deliver inventory to us and completed orders to our customers. If we are not able to negotiate acceptable terms with these companies or they experience performance problems or other difficulties, it could negatively impact our operating results and customer experience. In addition, our ability to receive inbound inventory efficiently and ship completed orders to customers also may be negatively affected by inclement weather, fire, flood, power loss, earthquakes, labor disputes, acts of war or terrorism, acts of God, and similar factors.. The seasonality of our business places increased strain on our operations.. A disproportional amount of our sales activity normally occurs in our fourth fiscal quarter of the year, namely November through January.  If we do not stock or restock popular products sufficient to meet customer demand, our business would be adversely affected.  If we overstock products, we may be required to take significant inventory markdowns or write-offs, which could reduce profitability.  We may experience an increase in our net shipping cost due to complimentary upgrades, split-shipments and additional long-zone shipments necessary to ensure timely delivery for the holiday season.  Additionally, we may be unable to adequately staff our fulfillment and customer service centers during peak periods, and delivery services and other fulfillment companies and customer service providers may be unable to meet the seasonal demand.  The occurrence of any of these factors could have an adverse effect on our business.. We may fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or may be accused of infringing upon the intellectual property rights of third parties.. We regard our intellectual property rights, including patents, service marks, trademarks and domain names, copyrights and trade secrets, as critical to our success. We rely heavily upon software, databases and other systemic components that are necessary to manage and support our business operations, many of which utilize or incorporate third party products, services or technologies. In addition, we license intellectual property rights in connection with the various products and services we offer to consumers. As a result, we are subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of business, including claims of alleged infringement of the trademarks, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property rights of third parties. In addition, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights claimed by others. Any litigation of this nature, regardless of outcome or merit, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management and technical resources, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Patent litigation tends to be particularly protracted and expensive. Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights in a meaningful. 20. Table of Contents. manner or challenges to third party intellectual property we utilize or that is related to our contractual rights could result in erosion of brand names; limit our ability to control marketing on or through the internet using our various domain names; disrupt normal business operations or result in unanticipated costs, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Any acquisition we make could adversely impact the Company's performance.. From time to time we may acquire other businesses. An acquisition involves certain inherent risks, including the failure to retain key personnel from an acquired business; undisclosed or subsequently arising liabilities; failure to successfully integrate operations of the acquired business into our existing business, such as new product offerings or information technology systems; failure to generate expected synergies such as cost reductions or revenue gains; and the potential diversion of management resources from existing operations to respond to unforeseen issues arising in the context of the integration of a new business.  Additionally, we may incur significant expenses in connection with acquisitions and our overall profitability could be adversely affected if our associated investments and expenses are not justified by the revenues and profits, if any.. Our business could be negatively affected as a result of the actions of activist or hostile shareholders.. Our business could be negatively affected as a result of shareholder activism, which could cause us to incur significant expense, hinder execution of our business strategy, and impact the trading value of our securities. Shareholder activism, which could take many forms or arise in a variety of situations, has been increasing in publicly traded companies in recent years and we are subject to the risks associated with such activism. In 2014, our company was the subject of a proxy contest.  Shareholder activism, including potential proxy contests, requires significant time and attention by management and the board of directors, potentially interfering with our ability to execute our strategic plan. Additionally, such shareholder activism could give rise to perceived uncertainties as to our future direction, adversely affect our relationships with key executives and business partners, and make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel. Also, we may be required to incur significant legal fees and other expenses related to activist shareholder matters. Any of these impacts could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Further, the market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuation or otherwise be adversely affected by the events, risks and uncertainties described in this \"Risk Factors\" section.. It may be difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so may be beneficial to our shareholders.. During the second quarter of fiscal 2015, we adopted a Shareholder Rights Plan to preserve the value of certain deferred tax benefits, including those generated by net operating losses, as described further under Part II, Item 5 below.  The Shareholder Rights Plan may have anti-takeover effects.  The provisions of the Shareholder Rights Plan could have the effect of delaying, deferring, or preventing a change of control of us and could discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over the market price of our common stock."
