[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. Except for the historical information contained herein or incorporated by reference, this Annual Report and the information incorporated by reference contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. These statements include projections about our accounting and finances, plans and objectives for the future, future operating and economic performance and other statements regarding future performance. These statements are not guarantees of future performance or events. Our actual results may differ materially from those discussed here. Factors that could cause or contribute to differences in our actual results include those discussed in the following section, as well as those discussed in Part II, Item 7 entitled \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" and elsewhere throughout this Annual Report and in any other documents incorporated by reference into this Annual Report. You should consider carefully the following risk factors, together with all of the other information included or incorporated in this Annual Report. Each of these risk factors, either alone or taken together, could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. There may be additional risks that we do not presently know of or that we currently believe are immaterial which could also impair our business and financial position.. Risks Related to Our Business. Risks Related to Our Financial Condition and Capital Requirements. We have incurred losses since our inception and anticipate that we will continue to incur significant losses for the foreseeable future.. We are a development-stage biotechnology company with a limited operating history. Neothetics and Private Evofem each incurred net yearly losses since their respective inceptions. Private Evofem incurred net losses of $105.3 million and $66.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. As of December 31, 2017, Private Evofem had an accumulated deficit of $307.3 million. Negative cash flows from our operations are expected to continue for the foreseeable future. Our utilization of cash has been and will continue to be highly dependent on our product development programs, particularly our programs for the development of our MPT vaginal gel and our lead product candidate, Amphora. Our cash expenses will be highly dependent on the product development programs we choose to pursue, the progress of these product development programs, the results of our pre-clinical studies and clinical trials, the cost, timing and outcomes of regulatory decisions regarding potential approval for our product candidate or any future product candidate we may choose to develop, the terms and conditions of our contracts with service providers and license partners, and the rate of recruitment of patients in our clinical trials. In addition, the continuation of our clinical trials, and quite possibly our entire business, will depend on results of upcoming clinical data analyses and our financial resources at the time. Failure to raise capital as and when needed, on favorable terms or at all, would have a negative impact on our financial condition and our ability to develop our product candidates.. We have devoted substantially all of our financial resources to develop our product candidates, including conducting clinical trials and providing general and administrative support for our operations. To date, we have financed our operations primarily through the sale of equity securities. The amount of our future net losses will depend, in part, on the rate of our future expenditures and our ability to obtain funding through equity or debt financings, strategic collaborations or grants. Biopharmaceutical product development is a highly speculative undertaking and involves a substantial degree of risk.. We expect to continue to incur significant expenses and increasing operating losses for the foreseeable future and our expenses will increase substantially if and as we:. •  continue the clinical development of our MPT vaginal gel and our lead product candidate, Amphora;. •  continue efforts to discover new product candidates;. •  undertake the manufacturing of our product candidates or increase volumes manufactured by third parties;. •  advance our programs into larger, more expensive clinical trials;. •  initiate additional pre-clinical, clinical, or other trials or studies for our product candidates or any product candidates we may choose to develop in the future;. •  seek regulatory and marketing approvals and reimbursement for our product candidates or any product candidates we may choose to develop in the future;. •  establish a sales, marketing, and distribution infrastructure to commercialize any products for which we may obtain marketing approval and market for ourselves;. •  seek to identify, assess, acquire, and/or develop other product candidates;. •  make milestone, royalty or other payments under third-party license agreements;. •  seek to maintain, protect, and expand our intellectual property portfolio;. 25. •  seek to attract and retain skilled personnel; and. •  experience any delays or encounter issues with the development and regulatory approval of our product candidates such as safety issues, clinical trial accrual delays, longer follow-up for planned studies, additional major studies or supportive studies necessary to support marketing approval.. Further, the net losses we incur may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year, such that a period-to-period comparison of our results of operations may not be a good indication of our future performance.. We must raise additional funds to finance our operations to remain a going concern.. Based on our cash balance, recurring losses since inception and inadequacy of existing capital resources to fund planned operations for a twelve-month period, we will, during the remainder of 2018, require significant additional funding to continue operations. If we are unable to raise additional funds when needed, we will not be able to continue development of our MPT vaginal gel or our lead product candidate, Amphora, or we will be required to delay, scale back or eliminate some or all of our development programs or cease operations. Any additional equity or debt financing that we are able to obtain may be dilutive to our current stockholders and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants or unfavorable terms. If we raise funds through collaborative or licensing arrangements, we may be required to relinquish, on terms that are not favorable to us, rights to some of our technologies or product candidates that we would otherwise seek to develop or commercialize. Moreover, if we are unable to continue as a going concern, we may be forced to liquidate our assets and the values we receive for our assets in liquidation or dissolution could be significantly lower than the values reflected in our financial statements.. We have never generated any revenue from product sales and may never be profitable.. We have no products approved for commercialization and have never generated any material amount of revenue from product sales. Our ability to generate revenue and achieve profitability depends on our ability, alone or with strategic collaborators, to successfully complete the development of, and obtain the regulatory and marketing approvals necessary to commercialize one or more of our current or future product candidates. We do not anticipate generating revenue from product sales until 2020. Our ability to generate future revenue from product sales depends heavily on our success in many areas, including, but not limited to:. •  completing research and development of our MPT vaginal gel, Amphora, our lead product candidate, and one or more of our current or future product candidates;. •  obtaining regulatory and marketing approvals for one or more of our current or future product candidates;. •  manufacturing one or more product candidates and establishing and maintaining supply and manufacturing relationships with third parties that are commercially feasible, meet regulatory requirements and our supply needs in sufficient quantities to meet market demand for our product candidates, if approved;. •  marketing, launching and commercializing one or more product candidates for which we obtain regulatory and marketing approval, either directly or with a collaborator or distributor;. •  gaining market acceptance of one or more of our product candidates as treatment options;. •  addressing any competing products;. •  protecting, maintaining and enforcing our intellectual property rights, including patents, trade secrets and know-how;. •  negotiating favorable terms in any collaboration, licensing or other arrangements into which we may enter;. •  obtaining reimbursement or pricing for our MPT vaginal gel, our lead product candidate, Amphora, or one or more of our current or future product candidates that supports profitability; and. •  attracting, hiring and retaining qualified personnel.. Even if one or more of the product candidates that we develop is approved for commercial sale, we anticipate incurring significant costs associated with launching and commercializing any approved product candidate. We also will have to develop or acquire manufacturing capabilities or continue to contract with contract manufacturers in order to continue development and potential commercialization of our product candidates. If we are not able to generate revenue from the sale of any approved products, we may never become profitable.. We are heavily reliant on our ability to access funding through capital market transactions. Due to our small public float, limited operating history and lack of revenue, it may be difficult and expensive for us to raise additional funds.. We are heavily reliant on our ability to raise funds through the issuance of shares of our common stock or securities linked to our common stock. Our ability to raise these funds may be dependent on a number of factors, including the risk factors further described herein and the low trading volume and volatile trading price of our shares of common stock. The stocks of small cap companies in the biotechnology. 26. sector similar to us tend to be highly volatile. We expect that the price of our common stock will be highly volatile for the next several years. Even if we expand our portfolio of products and product candidates, we may never successfully commercialize or monetize our current product candidate or any future product candidate that we may seek to develop.. As a result, we may be unable to access funding through sales of our common stock or other equity-linked securities. Even if we are able to access funding, the cost of capital may be substantial. The terms of any funding we are able to obtain may not be favorable to us and may be highly dilutive to our stockholders. We may be unable to access capital due to unfavorable market conditions or other market factors outside of our control. There can be no assurance that we will be able to raise additional capital when needed. The failure to obtain additional capital when needed would have a material adverse effect on our business.. Raising additional capital may cause dilution to our stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish rights.. In order to complete the development of our MPT vaginal gel and our lead product candidate, Amphora, we must raise significant additional capital. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity, convertible debt or other securities convertible into equity, the ownership interest of our stockholders will be diluted, and the terms of these new securities may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect rights of our stockholders. Debt financing, if available at all, would likely involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures, making additional product acquisitions or declaring dividends. If we raise additional funds through strategic collaborations or licensing arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our product candidates or future revenue streams or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. We do not know if we will be able to obtain additional funding if and when necessary to fund our entire portfolio of product candidates to meet our projected plans. If we are unable to obtain funding on a timely basis, we may be required to delay or discontinue one or more of our development programs or the commercialization of any product candidates or be unable to expand our operations or otherwise capitalize on potential business opportunities, which could materially harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate the success of our business to date and to assess our future viability.. To date, our activities have been largely limited to staffing, business planning, raising capital, developing our technology, identifying potential products and undertaking pre-clinical and clinical studies of our product candidates. We have a limited operating history that makes it difficult to evaluate our business and prospects. Biopharmaceutical product development is a highly speculative undertaking and involves a substantial degree of uncertainty. As a largely development stage company, we have not yet demonstrated our ability to obtain regulatory approvals, generate significant revenue or conduct biopharmaceutical marketing activities necessary for successful product commercialization. In addition, given our limited operating history, we may encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications, delays, and other known and unknown factors. Our likelihood of success must be evaluated in light of such challenges and variables associated with a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical product development company and we may not be successful in our commercialization efforts or may incur greater costs than expected, both of which would materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.. The recently passed comprehensive tax reform bill could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. On December 22, 2017, the President signed into law the \"Tax Cuts and Jobs Act,\" or TCJA, that significantly reforms the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code. The TCJA, among other things, includes changes to U.S. federal tax rates, imposes significant additional limitations on the deductibility of interest and net operating loss carryforwards, allows for the expensing of capital expenditures, and puts into effect the migration from a \"worldwide\" system of taxation to a territorial system. Our net deferred tax assets and liabilities will be revalued at the newly enacted U.S. corporate rate, and the impact, if any, will be recognized in our tax expense in the year of enactment. We continue to examine the impact this tax reform legislation may have on our business. The impact of this tax reform is uncertain and could be adverse. We urge our stockholders to consult with their legal and tax advisors with respect to such legislation and the potential tax consequences of investing in our common stock.. Risks Related to the Development of Our Product Candidates. Our success will depend heavily on whether we can develop our lead product candidate, Amphora, as a contraceptive. Failure to develop Amphora as a contraceptive would likely cause our business to fail.. We currently have a single platform technology, our MPT vaginal gel, from which we intend to create multiple product candidates. However, we will rely primarily on our lead product candidate, Amphora, for use as a contraceptive for our commercial success. Amphora is currently the subject of an ongoing Phase 3 clinical trial intended to demonstrate efficacy as a contraceptive. While we believe that our MPT vaginal gel may also be useful in preventing other indications, currently our business depends almost entirely on the successful clinical development and regulatory approval of Amphora for use as a contraceptive, which may never occur. We have never received a regulatory approval for any product. Accordingly, even if we are able to successfully complete our clinical trial for Amphora as a contraceptive, we may. 27. be unable to obtain regulatory approval for Amphora as a contraceptive, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and operations.. Our ability to develop our MPT vaginal gel for additional indications could have an adverse effect on our business and our ability to successfully market Amphora as a contraceptive.. We believe that Amphora may also be useful in certain other indications and we are conducting a Phase 2b/3 clinical trial for the prevention of urogenital chlamydia and gonorrhea in women. In addition, we are currently designing a Phase 2b/3 trial of our MPT vaginal gel product candidate for the reduction of recurrent BV. We do not know if we will successfully complete either of these clinical trials. Even if we do complete these clinical trials, there is no assurance that we will obtain regulatory approval of Amphora or our MPT vaginal gel for additional indications. Such a failure could impede our ability to market Amphora as a contraceptive because these product candidates are based on the same active ingredients. Also, any failure to obtain regulatory approvals for additional indications will likely have a material adverse effect on the company's business and operations.. Indemnity claims from lawsuits or damages against our clinical trial sites could cause us to incur substantial liabilities and to limit commercialization of Amphora, and any future product candidate that we may develop.. In connection with our clinical trials, our third-party clinical sites face inherent risk of liability exposure from patients enrolled in our clinical trials. We have entered into indemnification agreements with each of these clinical trial sites obligating us to reimburse these sites should they incur certain liability in connection with our clinical trials. If we or our clinical trial sites cannot successfully defend against these product liability and other health related claims, we may incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in decreased demand for our MPT vaginal gel and our lead product candidate, Amphoraor, as applicable, any future product candidate we may develop, injury to our reputation, negative media attention and the diversion of our management's time and attention from our product development and commercialization efforts to address claim related matters.. The success of our business is also expected to depend in part upon its ability to identify, license, discover, develop or commercialize additional product candidates. Failure to identify additional product candidates would have a negative impact on our business and operations.. Although a substantial amount of our effort will focus on the continued clinical testing, potential approval and commercialization of our MPT vaginal gel as a contraceptive, as a possible preventative for certain STIs and prevention of recurrent BV, the success of our business is also expected to depend in part upon our ability to identify, license, discover, develop or commercialize additional product candidates. We are seeking to license, or otherwise obtain, product and technology rights to a variety of products and product candidates in the field of women's health, but there can be no assurance we will be able to do so, or do so on favorable terms. Research programs to identify new product candidates require substantial technical, financial and human resources. There are risks, uncertainties and costs associated with identifying, licensing and advancing product candidates through successful clinical development. We may focus our efforts and resources on potential programs or product candidates that ultimately prove to be unsuccessful. Our research programs or licensing efforts may fail to yield additional product candidates for clinical development and commercialization for a number of reasons, including but not limited to the following:. •  our research or business development methodology or search criteria and process may be unsuccessful in identifying potential product candidates;. •  we may not be able or willing to assemble sufficient resources to acquire or discover additional product candidates;. •  our product candidates may not succeed in pre-clinical or clinical testing;. •  our potential product candidates may be shown to have harmful side effects or may have other characteristics that may make the products unmarketable or unlikely to receive marketing approval;. •  competitors may develop alternatives that render our product candidates obsolete or less attractive;. •  product candidates we develop may be covered by third parties' patents or other exclusive rights;. •  the market for a product candidate may change during our program so that such a product may become unreasonable to continue to develop;. •  research and development programs are quite costly and we may be unable to obtain the financing and resources to do so;. •  a product candidate may not be capable of being produced in commercial quantities at an acceptable cost, or at all; and. •  a product candidate may not be accepted as safe and effective by patients, the medical community or third-party payers.. 28. If any of these events occur, we may be forced to abandon our development efforts for a program or programs, or we may not be able to identify, license, partner, discover, develop or commercialize additional product candidates, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations and could potentially cause us to cease operations. Moreover, even if we were able to obtain the rights to additional product candidates, there can be no assurance that these candidates will ever be advanced successfully through clinical development.. Clinical trials are costly, time consuming and inherently risky, and we may fail to demonstrate safety and efficacy to the satisfaction of applicable regulatory authorities.. Clinical development is expensive, time consuming and involves significant risk. We cannot guarantee that any clinical trials will be conducted as planned or completed on schedule, if at all. In addition, our product candidates are targeted toward pregnancy prevention and the prevention of certain infectious diseases. Therefore, it may be especially difficult to recruit patients to participate in our clinical trials when doing so will require that patients refrain from other methods of contraception and disease prevention. A failure of one or more clinical trials can occur at any stage of development. Events that may prevent successful or timely completion of clinical development include, but are not limited to:. •  inability to obtain the funding necessary to initiate or complete any clinical trial;. •  inability to generate satisfactory pre-clinical, toxicology or other in vivo or in vitro data or to develop diagnostics capable of supporting the initiation or continuation of clinical trials;. •  delays in reaching agreement on acceptable terms with clinical research organizations, or CROs, and clinical trial sites, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different CROs and clinical trial sites;. •  delays or failure in obtaining required institutional review board, or IRB, approval at each clinical trial site;. •  failure to obtain or delays in obtaining a permit from regulatory authorities to conduct a clinical trial;. •  delays in recruiting or failure to recruit sufficient eligible patients in our clinical trials;. •  failure by clinical sites or CROs or other third parties to adhere to clinical trial requirements;. •  failure by clinical sites, CROs or other third parties to perform in accordance with the good clinical practices requirements of the FDA or applicable foreign regulatory guidelines;. •  patients withdrawing from our clinical trials;. •  adverse events or other issues of concern significant enough for the FDA, or comparable foreign regulatory authority, to put an IND on clinical hold;. •  occurrence of adverse events associated with our product candidates;. •  changes in regulatory requirements and guidance that require amending or submitting new clinical protocols;. •  the cost of clinical trials of our product candidates;. •  negative or inconclusive results from our clinical trials that may result in our deciding, or regulators requiring us, to conduct additional clinical trials or abandon development programs in other ongoing or planned indications for a product candidate; and. •  delays in reaching agreement on acceptable terms with third-party manufacturers and the time for manufacture of sufficient quantities of our product candidates for use in clinical trials.. Any inability to successfully complete clinical development and obtain regulatory approval for one or more of our product candidates could result in additional costs to us or impair our ability to generate revenue. In addition, if we make manufacturing or formulation changes to our product candidates, we may need to conduct additional nonclinical studies and/or clinical trials to show that the results obtained from such new formulation are consistent with previous results obtained. Clinical trial delays could also shorten any periods during which our products have patent protection and may allow competitors to develop and bring products to market before we do, which could impair our ability to successfully commercialize our product candidates and may harm our business and results of operations.. Contraception is a highly competitive healthcare niche. The success of Amphora and any other future contraceptive product candidate we may pursue will be related to our efficacy and safety outcomes during clinical trials.. Today, there are a variety of hormonal and non-hormonal contraceptive options available to women, including oral contraceptive pills and intrauterine devices; newer hormonal contraceptive products including implants, injectables, vaginal rings, patches, and hormonal intrauterine systems; and non-hormonal methods such as female condoms, novel diaphragms, and new methods of female sterilization. Based. 29. on our market research, clinical testing of Amphora may need to demonstrate efficacy for typical use of at least 80% to be commercially viable. Should Amphora fail to generate the safety and efficacy data expected, our business prospects would be materially damaged.. Due in part to our limited financial resources, we may fail to select or capitalize on the most scientifically, clinically or commercially promising or profitable indications or therapeutic areas for our product candidates, and we may be unable to pursue and complete the clinical trials that we would like to pursue and complete.. We have limited financial and technical resources to determine the indications on which we should focus the development efforts for our product candidates and any future candidates we may choose to develop. Due to our limited available financial resources, we may be required to curtail clinical development programs and activities that might otherwise have led to more rapid progress of our product candidates, or product candidates that we may in the future choose to develop, through the regulatory and development processes. We may make incorrect determinations with regard to the indications and clinical trials on which to focus the available resources that we do have. The decisions to allocate our research, management and financial resources toward particular indications may not lead to the development of viable commercial products and may divert resources from better opportunities. Similarly, our decisions to delay or terminate development programs may also cause us to miss valuable opportunities.. Risks Related to Regulatory Approval of Our Product Candidates and Other Legal Compliance Matters. We must obtain regulatory approval prior to marketing or commercializing our product candidates. In order to obtain regulatory approval, we must complete our clinical and pre-clinical trials in compliance with the regulatory approval requirements of the FDA and any applicable and comparable foreign regulators. If clinical trials of our product candidates fail to satisfactorily demonstrate safety and efficacy to the FDA and other comparable foreign regulators, we may incur additional costs or experience delays in completing, or ultimately be unable to complete, the development and commercialization of our product candidates.. We are not permitted to commercialize, market, promote or sell any product candidate in the United States without obtaining marketing approval from the FDA. Comparable foreign regulatory authorities impose similar restrictions. We may never receive such approvals, and must complete extensive pre-clinical development and clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our product candidates before we will be able to obtain these approvals.. Any inability to complete pre-clinical and clinical development successfully could result in additional costs to us, and impair our ability to generate revenues. Moreover, if (1) we are required to conduct additional clinical trials or other testing of our product candidates beyond the trials and testing that we currently contemplate (2) we are unable to successfully complete clinical trials of our product candidates or other testing, (3) the results of these clinical trials or tests are unfavorable, uncertain or are only modestly favorable or (4) there are unacceptable safety concerns associated with our product candidates, we may:. •  be delayed in obtaining marketing approval for our product candidates;. •  not obtain marketing approval at all;. •  obtain approval with labeling that includes significant use or distribution restrictions or significant safety warnings, including boxed warnings;. •  be subject to additional post-marketing testing or other requirements; or. •  be required to remove the product from the market after obtaining marketing approval.. Amphora is a drug/device combination and the process for obtaining regulatory approval for Amphora in the United States will require compliance with requirements of two divisions of the FDA. A change in the FDA's primary oversight responsibility would adversely impact our development timeline and significantly raise our costs.. Amphora is comprised of both drug and device components and is considered a combination product by the FDA. It is a method of self-applied contraception that uses a pre-filled applicator to apply a semi-solid topical gel. The key active ingredient has been shown to be an active anti-inflammatory and anti-infective and works in combination with other active ingredients to stabilize the pH levels in the vagina without altering the vaginal microbiome, which results in both the inhibition and the immobilization of sperm. Other properties contributing to the contraceptive effect of Amphora are its capacity to reduce/inhibit cervical mucus penetration, its ability to maintain sufficient viscosity even on dilution, and its bioadhesive strength. The FDA has different divisions responsible for assessing and approving devices and drugs. The Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, or CDER, has responsibility for drug products, while the Center for Devices and Radiological Health, or CDRH, has oversight responsibility for medical devices. Amphora previously underwent a request for designation process with the FDA that determined that CDER would lead the review. If the designation were to be changed to CDRH, or if either division were to institute additional requirements for the approval of Amphora, we could be required to complete clinical studies with more patients and over longer periods of time than is currently anticipated. This would likely require us to raise additional funds and would cause us to miss anticipated timelines. The impact of either a change in review agency or the imposition of additional requirements for approval would be significant to us and would have a material adverse effect on the prospects for the development of Amphora, our business and our financial condition.. 30. Serious adverse events arising during clinical studies of our MPT vaginal gel product candidates or post marketing could have a material, adverse effect on our product development timeline or our ability to develop and market our MPT vaginal gel product candidates at all.. If serious adverse events or undesirable side effects occur during the clinical investigation of our MPT vaginal gel or our lead product candidate, Amphora, or post marketing, the following events could materially and adversely affect our business:. •  regulatory authorities may impose a clinical hold, which could result in substantial delays and adversely impact our ability to continue development of our MPT vaginal gel and Amphora;. •  regulatory authorities may require the addition of specific warnings or contraindications to product labeling or field alerts to physicians and pharmacies;. •  we may be required to change the way the MPT vaginal gel and/or Amphora is administered or the labeling of the MPT vaginal gel and/or Amphora;. •  we may be required to conduct additional clinical studies with more patients or over longer periods of time than anticipated;. •  we may be required to implement a risk minimization action plan, which could result in substantial cost increases and have a negative impact on our ability to commercialize our MPT vaginal gel and/or Amphora;. •  we may be required to limit the patients who can receive our MPT vaginal gel and/or Amphora;. •  we may be subject to promotional and marketing limitations on our MPT vaginal gel and/or Amphora;. •  sales of our MPT vaginal gel and/or Amphora may decrease significantly;. •  regulatory authorities may require us to take an approved product off the market;. •  we may be subject to litigation or product liability claims; and. •  our reputation may suffer.. Any of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of our MPT vaginal gel or our lead product candidate, Amphora, or any future product candidate we may seek to develop, or could substantially increase commercialization costs and expenses, which in turn could delay or prevent us from generating significant revenues from our MPT vaginal gel or Amphora sales or the sales from any future product candidate.. If FDA approval is received for our MPT vaginal gel, our lead product candidate, Amphora, or any other future product candidate we may develop, serious adverse events or side effects could require the product to be taken off of the market, may require the product to be packaged with safety warnings or may otherwise limit our sales of the product.. Even if we obtain regulatory approval for a product, we will remain subject to ongoing regulatory requirements.. If our MPT product candidates are approved, we will be subject to ongoing regulatory requirements with respect to manufacturing, labeling, packaging, storage, advertising, promotion, sampling, record-keeping, conduct of post-marketing clinical trials and submission of safety, efficacy and other post-approval information, including both federal and state requirements in the United States and requirements of comparable foreign regulatory authorities.. Manufacturers and manufacturers' facilities are required to continuously comply with FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authority requirements, including ensuring that quality control and manufacturing procedures conform to current good manufacturing practices, or cGMP, regulations and corresponding foreign regulatory manufacturing requirements. As such, we and our contract manufacturers will be subject to continual review and inspections to assess compliance with cGMP and adherence to commitments made in any NDA submission to the FDA or marketing authorization application.. Any regulatory approvals that we receive for any of our product candidates may be subject to limitations on the approved indicated uses for which the product candidate may be marketed or to the conditions of approval, or contain requirements for potentially costly post-marketing testing, including Phase 4 clinical trials, and surveillance to monitor the safety and efficacy of the product candidate. We will be required to report adverse reactions and production problems, if any, to the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities. Any new legislation addressing drug safety issues could result in delays in product development or commercialization, or increased costs to assure compliance. If our original marketing approval for a product candidate was obtained through an accelerated approval pathway, we could be required to conduct a successful post-marketing clinical trial in order to confirm the clinical benefit for our products. An unsuccessful post-marketing clinical trial or failure to complete such a trial could result in the withdrawal of marketing approval.. 31. If a regulatory agency discovers previously unknown problems with a product, such as adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or problems with the facility where the product is manufactured, or disagrees with the promotion, marketing or labeling of a product, the regulatory agency may impose restrictions on that product or us, including requiring withdrawal of the product from the market. If we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency or enforcement authority may, among other things:. •  issue warning letters;. •  impose civil or criminal penalties;. •  suspend or withdraw regulatory approval;. •  suspend any of our ongoing clinical trials;. •  refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications submitted by us;. •  impose restrictions on our operations, including closing our contract manufacturers' facilities; or. •  require a product recall.. Any government investigation of alleged violations of law would require us to expend significant time and resources in response and could generate adverse publicity. Any failure to comply with ongoing regulatory requirements may significantly and adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize our products and the value of our business and our operating results would be adversely affected.. Even if we receive approval from the FDA in the U.S. to market our MPT vaginal gel product candidates or a future product candidate we may seek to develop, we may fail to receive similar approval outside the U.S.. In order to market a new product outside the United States, we must obtain separate marketing approvals in each jurisdiction and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries, including clinical trials, commercial sales, pricing manufacture distribution and safety requirements. The time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from, and be longer than, that required to obtain FDA approval. The marketing approval process in other countries may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval in the United States, as well as other risks. Further, we may be unable to obtain rights to the necessary clinical data and may be required to develop our own. In addition, in many countries outside the United States, a new product must receive pricing and reimbursement approval prior to commercialization. This can result in substantial delays in these countries. Additionally, the product labeling requirements outside the United States may be different and inconsistent with the United States labeling requirements, negatively affecting our ability to market our products in countries outside the United States.. In addition, if we fail to comply with applicable foreign regulatory requirements, we may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of marketing approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. In such an event, our ability to market to our full target market will be reduced and our ability to realize the full market potential of our product candidate will be harmed, which could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation and prospects.. Our development and commercialization strategy for our MPT vaginal gel product candidates depend, in part, on published scientific literature and the FDA's prior findings regarding the safety and efficacy of approved products based on data developed by others that the FDA may rely on in reviewing our NDA.. The Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act added section 505(b)(2) to the FDCA. Section 505(b)(2) of the FDCA permits the filing of a NDA where at least some of the information required for approval comes from investigations that were not conducted by or for the applicant and for which the applicant has not obtained a right of reference or use from the person by or for whom the investigations were conducted. The FDA interprets section 505(b)(2) of the FDCA, for the purposes of approving an NDA, to permit the applicant to rely, in part, upon published literature or the FDA's previous findings of safety and efficacy for an approved product. The FDA may also require the applicant to perform additional clinical trials or measurements to support any deviation from the previously approved product. The FDA may then approve the new product candidate for all or some of the label indications for which the referenced product candidate has been approved, as well as for any new indication sought by the section 505(b)(2) applicant. The applicant's product label, however, may require all or some of the limitations, contraindications, warnings or precautions included in the reference product's label, including a black box warning, or may require additional limitations, contraindications, warnings or precautions. We have submitted a NDA for Amphoraunder section 505(b)(2) of the FDCA and as such the NDA relied, in part, on the FDA's previous findings of safety and efficacy from investigations for approved products and published scientific literature for which we have not received a right of reference. In addition, notwithstanding the approval of many products by the FDA pursuant to section 505(b)(2) of the FDCA, over the last few years some pharmaceutical companies and others have objected to the FDA's interpretation of section 505(b)(2) of the FDCA. If the FDA changes its interpretation of section 505(b)(2) of the FDCA, or if the FDA's interpretation is successfully challenged in court, this could delay or even prevent the FDA from approving any section 505(b)(2) NDAs that we submit. Such a result could require us to conduct additional testing and costly clinical trials, which could substantially delay or prevent the approval and launch of our product candidates.. 32. Product liability lawsuits against us could cause us to incur substantial liabilities and to limit commercialization of our MPT vaginal gel product candidates and any future product candidate that we may develop.. We face an inherent risk of product liability exposure should we commercialize Amphora. We will face similar risks with any other future indications for our MPT vaginal gel or other product candidates that we may develop or commercialize. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against these product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in decreased demand for our MPT vaginal gel, Amphoraor, as applicable, any future product candidate we may develop, injury to our reputation, negative media attention and the diversion of our management's time and attention from our product development and commercialization efforts to address claim related matters.. We will need to maintain liability insurance coverage as we seek to conduct and continue to conduct clinical trials for our MPT vaginal gel and Amphora. Such insurance may become increasingly expensive and difficult to procure. In the future, such insurance may not be available to us at all or may only be available at a very high cost and, if available, may not be adequate to cover all liabilities that we may incur. In addition, we may need to increase our liability insurance coverage in connection with the commercialization of our MPT vaginal gel, Amphoraor any other product candidate we may commercialize. If we are not able to obtain and maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in an amount adequate to satisfy any liability that may arise, our business could be harmed, possibly materially.. If we fail to comply with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, we could become subject to fines or penalties or incur costs that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our research and development activities and our third-party manufacturers' and suppliers' activities involve the controlled storage, use, and disposal of hazardous materials, including the components of our product candidates and other hazardous compounds. We and our manufacturers and suppliers are subject to laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling, and disposal of these hazardous materials. In some cases, these hazardous materials and various wastes resulting from their use are stored at our and our manufacturers' facilities pending their use and disposal. We cannot eliminate the risk of contamination, which could cause an interruption of our commercialization efforts, research and development efforts and business operations; environmental damage resulting in costly clean-up; and liabilities under applicable laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling, and disposal of these materials and specified waste products. Although we believe that the safety procedures utilized by us and our third-party manufacturers for handling and disposing of these materials generally comply with the standards prescribed by these laws and regulations, we cannot guarantee that this is the case or eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In such an event, we may be held liable for any resulting damages and such liability could exceed our resources and state or federal or other applicable authorities may curtail our use of specified materials and/or interrupt our business operations. Furthermore, environmental laws and regulations are complex, change frequently, and have tended to become more stringent. We cannot predict the impact of such changes and cannot be certain of our future compliance. We do not currently carry biological or hazardous waste insurance coverage.. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property. If we are unable to obtain and maintain patent protection for our MPT vaginal gelproduct candidates and other proprietary technologies we develop, or if the scope of the patent protection we have or will obtain is not sufficiently broad, our competitors could develop and commercialize products and technology similar or identical to ours, and our ability to successfully commercialize Amphora, other MPT vaginal gel product candidatesand other proprietary technologies we may develop may be adversely affected.. Our success depends in large part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection in the United States and other countries with respect to our MPT vaginal gel, our lead product candidate, Amphora, and other proprietary technologies we may develop. We seek to protect our proprietary position by in-licensing intellectual property and filing patent applications in the United States and abroad relating to our MPT vaginal gel, our Amphoraproduct candidate and other proprietary technologies we may develop. If we or our licensors are unable to obtain or maintain patent protection with respect to our MPT vaginal gel, our Amphoraproduct candidate and other proprietary technologies we may develop, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially harmed.. Changes in either the patent laws or their interpretation in the United States and other countries may diminish our ability to protect our inventions, obtain, maintain, and enforce our intellectual property rights and, more generally, could affect the value of our intellectual property or narrow the scope of our owned and licensed patents. With respect to both in-licensed and owned intellectual property, we cannot predict whether the patent applications we and our licensors are currently pursuing will issue as patents in any particular jurisdiction or whether the claims of any issued patents will provide sufficient protection from competitors or other third parties.. The patent prosecution process is expensive, time-consuming, and complex, and we may not be able to file, prosecute, maintain, enforce, or license all necessary or desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost or in a timely manner. It is also possible that we will fail to identify patentable aspects of our research and development output in time to obtain patent protection. Although we enter into non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements with parties who have access to confidential or patentable aspects of our research and development output, such as our employees, corporate collaborators, outside scientific collaborators, CROs, contract manufacturers, consultants, advisors, and other third parties, any of these parties may breach the agreements and disclose such output before a patent application is filed, thereby. 33. jeopardizing our ability to seek patent protection. In addition, our ability to obtain and maintain valid and enforceable patents depends on whether the differences between our inventions and the prior art allow our inventions to be patentable over the prior art. Furthermore, publications of discoveries in the scientific literature often lag behind the actual discoveries, and patent applications in the United States and other jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months after filing, or in some cases not at all. Therefore, we cannot be certain that we or our licensors were the first to make the inventions claimed in any of our owned or licensed patents or pending patent applications, or that we or our licensors were the first to file for patent protection of such inventions.. The patent position of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies generally is highly uncertain, involves complex legal and factual questions, and has been the subject of much litigation in recent years. As a result, the issuance, scope, validity, enforceability, and commercial value of our patent rights are highly uncertain. Our owned or in-licensed pending and future patent applications may not result in patents being issued which protect Amphoraproduct candidate and other proprietary technologies we may develop or which effectively prevent others from commercializing competitive technologies and product candidates.. Moreover, the coverage claimed in a patent application can be significantly reduced before the patent is issued, and its scope can be reinterpreted after issuance. Even if patent applications we license or own currently or in the future issue as patents, they may not issue in a form that will provide us with any meaningful protection, prevent competitors or other third parties from competing with us, or otherwise provide us with any competitive advantage. Any patents that we own or in-license may be challenged, narrowed, circumvented, or invalidated by third parties. Consequently, we do not know whether our MPT vaginal gel, Amphoraproduct candidate and other proprietary technology will be protectable or remain protected by valid and enforceable patents. Our competitors or other third parties may be able to circumvent our patents by developing similar or alternative technologies or products in a non-infringing manner which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. The issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its inventorship, scope, validity, or enforceability, and our patents may be challenged in the courts or patent offices in the United States and abroad. We or our licensors may be subject to a third-party preissuance submission of prior art to the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or the USPTO, or become involved in opposition, derivation, revocation, reexamination, post-grant and inter partes review, or interference proceedings or other similar proceedings challenging our owned or licensed patent rights. An adverse determination in any such submission, proceeding or litigation could reduce the scope of, or invalidate or render unenforceable, our owned or in-licensed patent rights, allow third parties to commercialize our MPT vaginal gel, Amphoraproduct candidate and other proprietary technologies we may develop and compete directly with us, without payment to us, or result in our inability to manufacture or commercialize products without infringing third-party patent rights. Moreover, we, or one of our licensors, may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the USPTO to determine priority of invention or in post-grant challenge proceedings, such as oppositions in a foreign patent office, that challenge our or our licensor's priority of invention or other features of patentability with respect to our owned or in-licensed patents and patent applications. Such challenges may result in loss of patent rights, loss of exclusivity, or in patent claims being narrowed, invalidated, or held unenforceable, which could limit our ability to stop others from using or commercializing similar or identical technology and products, or limit the duration of the patent protection of our MPT vaginal gel, Amphoraproduct candidate and other proprietary technologies we may develop. Such proceedings also may result in substantial cost and require significant time from our scientists and management, even if the eventual outcome is favorable to us.. In addition, given the amount of time required for the development, testing, and regulatory review of our MPT vaginal gel and Amphoraproduct candidate, patents protecting such product candidates might expire before or shortly after such product candidates are commercialized. As a result, our intellectual property may not provide us with sufficient rights to exclude others from commercializing products similar or identical to ours. Moreover, some of our owned and in-licensed patents and patent applications are, and may in the future be, co-owned with third parties. If we are unable to obtain an exclusive license to any such third-party co-owners' interest in such patents or patent applications, such co-owners may be able to license their rights to other third parties, including our competitors, and our competitors could market competing products and technology. In addition, we may need the cooperation of any such co-owners of our patents in order to enforce such patents against third parties, and such cooperation may not be provided to us. Furthermore, our owned and in-licensed patents may be subject to a reservation of rights by one or more third parties. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial conditions, results of operations, and prospects.. Our rights to develop and commercialize our MPT vaginal gel product candidates are subject, in part, to the terms and conditions of licenses granted to us by others.. We are reliant upon licenses to certain patent rights and proprietary technology from third parties that are important or necessary to the development of our Amphora product candidate. For example, our license agreement with Rush University includes intellectual property rights to our MPT vaginal gel and our Amphora product candidate. This agreement requires us, as a condition to the maintenance of our license and other rights, to make milestone and royalty payments and satisfy certain performance obligations. Our obligations under this in-license agreement impose significant financial and logistical burdens upon our ability to carry out our business plan. Furthermore, if we do not meet such obligations in a timely manner, and, in the case of milestone payment requirements, if we were unable to obtain an extension of the deadlines for meeting such payment requirements, we could lose the rights to this proprietary technology, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 34. There is no assurance that the existing Rush License Agreement covering the rights related to our MPT vaginal gel or our Amphora product candidate will not be terminated due to a material breach of the underlying agreement. This would include a failure on our part to make the milestone and royalty payments, our failure to obtain applicable approvals from governmental authorities, or the loss of rights to the underlying intellectual property by any such licensors. There is no assurance that we will be able to renew or renegotiate a license agreement on acceptable terms if the agreement is terminated. We cannot guarantee that any license agreement will be enforceable. The termination of this license agreement or our inability to enforce our rights under this license agreement would materially and adversely affect our ability to commercialize our MPT vaginal gel and our Amphora product candidate.. In addition, with respect to our MPT vaginal gel and our Amphora product candidate, Rush University has the right, in certain instances, to control the defense against any infringement litigation arising from the manufacture or development (but not the sale) of our MPT vaginal gel and our Amphora product candidate. While our license agreement with Rush University requires Rush University to indemnify us for certain losses arising from these claims, this indemnification may not be sufficient to adequately compensate us for any related losses or the potential loss of our ability to manufacture and develop our MPT vaginal gel or Amphora product candidate.. In addition, the agreements under which we currently license intellectual property or technology from third parties are complex, and certain provisions in such agreements may be susceptible to multiple interpretations. The resolution of any contract interpretation disagreement that may arise could narrow what we believe to be the scope of our rights to the relevant intellectual property or technology, or increase what we believe to be our financial or other obligations under the relevant agreement, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. Moreover, if disputes over intellectual property that we have licensed prevent or impair our ability to maintain our current licensing arrangements on commercially acceptable terms, we may be unable to successfully develop and commercialize the affected product candidate, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions, results of operations, and prospects.. Our licensors may have relied on third-party consultants or collaborators or on funds from third parties such that our licensors are not the sole and exclusive owners of the patents we in-licensed. If other third parties have ownership rights to our in-licensed patents, they may be able to license such patents to our competitors, and our competitors could market competing products and technology. This could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial conditions, results of operations, and prospects.. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights throughout the world.. Filing, prosecuting, and defending patents on our MPT vaginal gel product candidates and other proprietary technologies we may develop in all countries throughout the world would be prohibitively expensive, and the laws of foreign countries may not protect our rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Consequently, we may not be able to prevent third parties from practicing our inventions in all countries outside the United States, or from selling or importing products made using our inventions in and into the United States or other jurisdictions. Competitors may use our technologies in jurisdictions where we have not obtained patent protection to develop their own products and, further, may export otherwise infringing products to territories where we have patent protection but enforcement is not as strong as that in the United States. These products may compete with our products, and our patents or other intellectual property rights may not be effective or sufficient to prevent them from competing.. Many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions. The legal systems of certain countries, particularly certain developing countries, do not favor the enforcement of patents, trade secrets, and other intellectual property protection, particularly those relating to biotechnology products, which could make it difficult for us to stop the infringement of our patents or marketing of competing products in violation of our intellectual property and proprietary rights generally. In addition, some jurisdictions, such as Europe, Japan, and China, may have a higher standard for patentability than in the U.S., including for example the requirement of claims having literal support in the original patent filing and the limitation on using supporting data that is not in the original patent filing. Under those heightened patentability requirements, we may not be able to obtain sufficient patent protection in certain jurisdictions even though the same or similar patent protection can be secured in U.S. and other jurisdictions.. Proceedings to enforce our intellectual property and proprietary rights in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial costs and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business, could put our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly, could put our patent applications at risk of not issuing, and could provoke third parties to assert claims against us. We may not prevail in any lawsuits that it initiates, and the damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may not be commercially meaningful. Accordingly, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property and proprietary rights around the world may be inadequate to obtain a significant commercial advantage from the intellectual property that we develop or license.. Many countries have compulsory licensing laws under which a patent owner may be compelled to grant licenses to third parties. In addition, many countries limit the enforceability of patents against government agencies or government contractors. In these countries, the patent owner may have limited remedies, which could materially diminish the value of such patent. If we or any of our licensors are forced to grant a license to third parties with respect to any patents relevant to our business, our competitive position may be impaired, and our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects may be adversely affected.. 35. Obtaining and maintaining our patent protection depends on compliance with various procedural, document submission, fee payment, and other requirements imposed by government patent agencies, and our patent protection could be reduced or eliminated for non-compliance with these requirements.. Periodic maintenance fees, renewal fees, annuity fees, and various other government fees on patents and applications will be due to be paid to the USPTO and various government patent agencies outside of the United States over the lifetime of our owned or licensed patents and applications. In certain circumstances, we rely on our licensing partners to pay these fees due to U.S. and non-U.S. patent agencies. The USPTO and various non-U.S. government agencies require compliance with several procedural, documentary, fee payment, and other similar provisions during the patent application process. We are also dependent on our licensors to take the necessary action to comply with these requirements with respect to our licensed intellectual property. In some cases, an inadvertent lapse can be cured by payment of a late fee or by other means in accordance with the applicable rules. There are situations, however, in which non-compliance can result in abandonment or lapse of the patent or patent application, resulting in a partial or complete loss of patent rights in the relevant jurisdiction. In such an event, potential competitors might be able to enter the market with similar or identical products or technology, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects.. Changes in U.S. patent law could diminish the value of patents in general, thereby impairing our ability to protect our products.. Changes in either the patent laws or interpretation of the patent laws in the United States could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of patent applications and the enforcement or defense of issued patents. Assuming that other requirements for patentability are met, prior to March 2013, in the United States, the first to invent the claimed invention was entitled to the patent, while outside the United States, the first to file a patent application was entitled to the patent. After March 2013, under the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, or the America Invents Act, enacted in September 2011, the United States transitioned to a first inventor to file system in which, assuming that other requirements for patentability are met, the first inventor to file a patent application will be entitled to the patent on an invention regardless of whether a third party was the first to invent the claimed invention. A third party that files a patent application in the USPTO after March 2013, but before we could therefore be awarded a patent covering an invention of ours even if we had made the invention before it was made by such third party. This will require us to be cognizant going forward of the time from invention to filing of a patent application. Since patent applications in the United States and most other countries are confidential for a period of time after filing or until issuance, we cannot be certain that we or our licensors were the first to either (i) file any patent application related to our MPT vaginal gel, our Amphoraproduct candidate and other proprietary technologies we may develop or (ii) invent any of the inventions claimed in our or our licensor's patents or patent applications.. The America Invents Act also includes a number of significant changes that affect the way patent applications will be prosecuted and also may affect patent litigation. These include allowing third-party submission of prior art to the USPTO during patent prosecution and additional procedures to attack the validity of a patent by USPTO administered post-grant proceedings, including post-grant review, inter partes review, and derivation proceedings. Because of a lower evidentiary standard in USPTO proceedings compared to the evidentiary standard in United States federal courts necessary to invalidate a patent claim, a third party could potentially provide evidence in a USPTO proceeding sufficient for the USPTO to hold a claim invalid even though the same evidence would be insufficient to invalidate the claim if first presented in a district court action. Accordingly, a third party may attempt to use the USPTO procedures to invalidate our patent claims that would not have been invalidated if first challenged by the third party as a defendant in a district court action. Therefore, the America Invents Act and its implementation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our owned or in-licensed patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our owned or in-licensed issued patents, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects.. In addition, the patent positions of companies in the development and commercialization of biologics and pharmaceuticals are particularly uncertain. Recent U.S. Supreme Court rulings have narrowed the scope of patent protection available in certain circumstances and weakened the rights of patent owners in certain situations. This combination of events has created uncertainty with respect to the validity and enforceability of patents, once obtained. Depending on future actions by the U.S. Congress, the federal courts, and the USPTO, the laws and regulations governing patents could change in unpredictable ways that could have a material adverse effect on our existing patent portfolio and our ability to protect and enforce our intellectual property in the future.. Issued patents covering our MPT vaginal gel product candidates and other proprietary technologies we may develop could be found invalid or unenforceable if challenged in court or before administrative bodies in the United States or abroad.. If we or one of our licensors initiated legal proceedings against a third party to enforce a patent covering our MPT vaginal gel, our Amphora product candidate and other proprietary technologies we may develop, the defendant could counterclaim that such patent is invalid or unenforceable. In patent litigation in the United States, defendant counterclaims alleging invalidity or unenforceability are commonplace. Grounds for a validity challenge could be an alleged failure to meet any of several statutory requirements, including lack of novelty, obviousness, or non-enablement. Grounds for an unenforceability assertion could be an allegation that someone connected with prosecution of the patent withheld relevant information from the USPTO, or made a misleading statement, during prosecution. Third parties may raise claims challenging the validity or enforceability of our owned or in-licensed patents before administrative bodies in the United States or abroad, even outside the context of litigation. Such mechanisms include re-examination, post-grant review, inter partes review, interference. 36. proceedings, derivation proceedings, and equivalent proceedings in foreign jurisdictions (e.g., opposition proceedings). Such proceedings could result in the revocation of, cancellation of, or amendment to our patents in such a way that they no longer cover our MPT vaginal gel, our Amphoraproduct candidate and other proprietary technologies we may develop. The outcome following legal assertions of invalidity and unenforceability is unpredictable. With respect to the validity question, for example, we cannot be certain that there is no invalidating prior art, of which we or our licensing partners and the patent examiner were unaware during prosecution. If a third party were to prevail on a legal assertion of invalidity or unenforceability, we would lose at least part, and perhaps all, of the patent protection on Amphoraproduct candidate and other proprietary technologies we may develop. Such a loss of patent protection would have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects.. If we do not obtain patent term extension and data exclusivity for our MPT vaginal gel product candidates, our business may be materially harmed.. Depending upon the timing, duration and specifics of any FDA marketing approval of any product candidate we may develop, one or more of our owned or in-licensed U.S. patents may be eligible for limited patent term extension under the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Action of 1984, or the Hatch-Waxman Amendments. The Hatch-Waxman Amendments permit a patent extension term, or PTE, of up to five years as compensation for patent term lost during the FDA regulatory review process. A patent term extension cannot extend the remaining term of a patent beyond a total of 14 years from the date of product approval, only one patent may be extended and only those claims covering the approved drug, a method for using it, or a method for manufacturing it may be extended. Similar patent term restoration provisions to compensate for commercialization delay caused by regulatory review are also available in certain foreign jurisdictions, such as in Europe under Supplemental Protection Certificate, or the SPC.. An important part of our patent strategy is reliant on our ability to obtain patent term extension on the patents licensed from Rush University. However, we may not be granted an extension, such as PTE for the U.S. patent and SPC for the European patents because of, for example, failing to exercise due diligence during the testing phase or regulatory review process, failing to apply within applicable deadlines, failing to apply prior to expiration of relevant patents, or otherwise failing to satisfy applicable requirements. Moreover, the applicable time period or the scope of patent protection afforded could be less than our request. If we are unable to obtain patent term extension or the term of any such extension is shorter than what we request, our competitors may obtain approval of competing products following our patent expiration, and our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially harmed.. The patent protection and patent prosecution for our MPT vaginal gel product candidates are dependent on third parties.. While we normally seek to obtain the right to control prosecution, maintenance and enforcement of the patents relating to our MPT vaginal gel and Amphoraproduct candidate, there may be times when the filing and prosecution activities for patents relating to our product candidate are controlled by our licensors or collaboration partners. If any of our current or future licensing or collaboration partners fail to prosecute, maintain and enforce such patents and patent applications in a manner consistent with the best interests of our business, including by payment of all applicable fees for patents covering our product candidate, we could lose our rights to the intellectual property or our exclusivity with respect to those rights, our ability to develop and commercialize our product candidate may be adversely affected and we may not be able to prevent competitors from making, using and selling competing products. In addition, even where we have the right to control patent prosecution of patents and patent applications we have licensed to and from third parties, we may still be adversely affected or prejudiced by actions or inactions of our licensees, our licensors and their counsel that took place prior to the date upon which we assumed control over patent prosecution.. We may be subject to claims challenging the inventorship of our patents and other intellectual property.. We or our licensors may be subject to claims that former employees, collaborators or other third parties have an interest in our owned or in-licensed patents, trade secrets, or other intellectual property as an inventor or co-inventor. For example, we or our licensors may have inventorship disputes arise from conflicting obligations of consultants or others who are involved in developing Amphoraproduct candidate and other proprietary technologies we may develop. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these and other claims challenging inventorship or our or our licensor's ownership of our owned or in-licensed patents, trade secrets or other intellectual property. If we or our licensors fail in defending any such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights, such as exclusive ownership of, or right to use, intellectual property that is important to Amphoraproduct candidate and other proprietary technologies we may develop. Even if we are successful in defending against such claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management and other employees. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets, our business and competitive position would be harmed.. In addition to seeking patents for our MPT vaginal gel, our Amphoraproduct candidate and other proprietary technologies we may develop, we also rely on trade secrets and confidentiality agreements to protect our unpatented know-how, technology, and other proprietary information and to maintain our competitive position. With respect to our MPT vaginal gel and our Amphora product candidate, we consider. 37. trade secrets and know-how to be one of our important sources of intellectual property. Trade secrets and know-how can be difficult to protect. In particular, the trade secrets and know-how in connection with our MPT vaginal gel and our Amphoraproduct candidate and other proprietary technology we may develop over time may be disseminated within the industry through independent development, the publication of journal articles describing the methodology, and the movement of personnel with scientific positions in academic and industry.. We seek to protect these trade secrets and other proprietary technology, in part, by entering into non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements with parties who have access to them, such as our employees, corporate collaborators, outside scientific collaborators, CROs, contract manufacturers, consultants, advisors, and other third parties. We also enter into confidentiality and invention or patent assignment agreements with our employees and consultants. We cannot guarantee that we have entered into such agreements with each party that may have or have had access to our trade secrets or proprietary technology and processes. Despite these efforts, any of these parties may breach the agreements and disclose our proprietary information, including our trade secrets, and we may not be able to obtain adequate remedies for such breaches. Enforcing a claim that a party illegally disclosed or misappropriated a trade secret is difficult, expensive, and time-consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, some courts inside and outside the United States are less willing or unwilling to protect trade secrets. If any of our trade secrets were to be lawfully obtained or independently developed by a competitor or other third party, we would have no right to prevent them from using that technology or information to compete with us. If any of our trade secrets were to be disclosed to or independently developed by a competitor or other third party, our competitive position would be materially and adversely harmed.. We may be subject to claims that third parties have an ownership interest in our trade secrets. For example, we may have disputes arise from conflicting obligations of our employees, consultants or others who are involved in developing our product candidates. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these and other claims challenging ownership of our trade secrets. If we fail in defending any such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, it may lose valuable trade secret rights, such as exclusive ownership of, or right to use, trade secrets that are important to Amphoraproduct candidate and other proprietary technologies we may develop. Such an outcome could have a material adverse effect on our business. Even if we are successful in defending against such claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management and other employees.. We may not be successful in obtaining necessary rights to any product candidate we may develop through acquisitions and in-licenses.. We currently have rights to intellectual property, covering our MPT vaginal gel, our Amphoraproduct candidate and other proprietary technologies we may develop. Other pharmaceutical companies and academic institutions may also have filed or are planning to file patent applications potentially relevant to our business. In order to avoid infringing these third-party patents, we may find it necessary or prudent to obtain licenses to such patents from such third-party intellectual property holders. However, we may be unable to secure such licenses or otherwise acquire or in-license any compositions, methods of use, processes, or other intellectual property rights from third parties that we identify as necessary for our MPT vaginal gel, our Amphoraproduct candidate and other proprietary technologies we may develop. The licensing or acquisition of third-party intellectual property rights is a competitive area, and several more established companies may pursue strategies to license or acquire third-party intellectual property rights that we may consider attractive or necessary. These established companies may have a competitive advantage over us due to their size, capital resources and greater clinical development and commercialization capabilities. In addition, companies that perceive us to be a competitor may be unwilling to assign or license rights to us. We also may be unable to license or acquire third-party intellectual property rights on terms that would allow it to make an appropriate return on our investment or at all. If we are unable to successfully obtain rights to required third-party intellectual property rights or maintain the existing intellectual property rights we have, we may have to abandon development of the relevant program or product candidate, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects.. We may be subject to claims that our employees, consultants, or advisors have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their current or former employers or claims asserting ownership of what we regard as our own intellectual property.. Many of our employees, consultants, and advisors are currently or were previously employed at universities or other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although we try to ensure that our employees, consultants, and advisors do not use the proprietary information or know-how of others in their work for us, we may be subject to claims that we or these individuals have used or disclosed intellectual property, including trade secrets or other proprietary information, of any such individual's current or former employer. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. If we fail in defending any such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. Even if we are successful in defending against such claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to our management.. In addition, while it is our policy to require our employees and contractors who may be involved in the conception or development of intellectual property to execute agreements assigning such intellectual property to us, we may be unsuccessful in executing such an agreement with each party who, in fact, conceives or develops intellectual property that it regards as its own. The assignment of intellectual property rights may not be self-executing, or the assignment agreements may be breached, and we may be forced to bring claims against third parties, or defend claims that they may bring against us, to determine the ownership of what we regard as our intellectual property. Such claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects.. 38. Third-party claims of intellectual property infringement, misappropriation or other violation against us or our collaborators may prevent or delay the development and commercialization of our MPT vaginal gelproduct candidates and other proprietary technologies we may develop.. The field of contraceptive and/or anti-STDs vaginal gel is competitive and dynamic. Due to the significant research and development that is taking place by several companies, including us and our competitors, in this field, the intellectual property landscape is in flux, and it may remain uncertain in the future. There may be significant intellectual property related litigation and proceedings, in addition to the ongoing interference proceedings, relating to our owned and in-licensed, and other third party, intellectual property and proprietary rights in the future.. Our commercial success depends in part on our and our collaborators' ability to avoid infringing, misappropriating and otherwise violating the patents and other intellectual property rights of third parties. There is a substantial amount of complex litigation involving patents and other intellectual property rights in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, as well as administrative proceedings for challenging patents, including interference, derivation and reexamination proceedings before the USPTO or oppositions and other comparable proceedings in foreign jurisdictions. As discussed above, recently, due to changes in United States law referred to as patent reform, new procedures including inter partes review and post-grant review have been implemented. As stated above, this reform adds uncertainty to the possibility of challenge to our patents in the future.. Numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications owned by third parties exist in the fields in which we intend to commercialize Amphora and our MPT vaginal gel product candidate and in which we are developing other proprietary technologies. As the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries expand and more patents are issued, the risk increases that our product candidate may give rise to claims of infringement of the patent rights of others. We cannot assure you that our MPT vaginal gel, our Amphora product candidate and other proprietary technologies we may develop will not infringe existing or future patents owned by third parties. We may not be aware of patents that have already been issued and that a third party, for example, a competitor in the fields in which we are developing our product candidate, might assert are infringed by our current or future product candidate, including claims to compositions, formulations, methods of manufacture or methods of use or treatment that cover our product candidate. It is also possible that patents owned by third parties of which we are aware, but which we do not believe are relevant to our MPT vaginal gel, our Amphoraproduct candidate and other proprietary technologies we may develop, could be found to be infringed by our product candidate. In addition, because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending patent applications that may later result in issued patents that our product candidate may infringe.. Third parties may currently have patents or obtain patents in the future, and claim that use of our technologies or the manufacture, use or sale of our MPT vaginal gel or our Amphoraproduct candidate infringes upon these patents. In the event that any third-party claims that we infringe their patents or that we are otherwise employing their proprietary technology without authorization and initiates litigation against us, even if we believe such claims are without merit, a court of competent jurisdiction could hold that such patents are valid, enforceable and infringed by our technologies or product candidate. In this case, the holders of such patents may be able to block our ability to commercialize the applicable product candidate or technology unless we obtain a license under the applicable patents, or until such patents expire or are finally determined to be held invalid or unenforceable. Such a license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Even if we are able to obtain a license, the license would likely obligate us to pay license fees or royalties or both, and the rights granted to us might be nonexclusive, which could result in our competitors gaining access to the same intellectual property. If we are unable to obtain a necessary license to a third-party patent on commercially reasonable terms, we may be unable to commercialize our product candidate or technologies or such commercialization efforts may be significantly delayed, which could in turn significantly harm our business.. Defense of infringement claims, regardless of their merit, would involve substantial litigation expense and would be a substantial diversion of management and other employee resources from our business, and may impact our reputation. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may be enjoined from further developing or commercializing our infringing products or technologies. In addition, we may have to pay substantial damages, including treble damages and attorneys' fees for willful infringement, obtain one or more licenses from third parties, pay royalties and/or redesign our infringing products or technologies, which may be impossible or require substantial time and monetary expenditure. In that event, we would be unable to further develop and commercialize our product candidate or technologies, which could harm our business significantly. Further, we cannot predict whether any required license would be available at all or whether we would be available on commercially reasonable terms. In the event that we could not obtain a license, we may be unable to further develop our product candidate and commercialize our product and product candidate, if approved, which could harm our business significantly. Even if we are able to obtain a license, the license would likely obligate us to pay license fees or royalties or both, and the rights granted to us might be nonexclusive, which could result in our competitors gaining access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we could be prevented from commercializing a product, or be forced to cease some aspect of our business operations, if, as a result of actual or threatened patent infringement claims, we are unable to enter into licenses on acceptable terms.. Engaging in litigation defending us against third parties alleging infringement of patent and other intellectual property rights is very expensive, particularly for a company of our size, and time-consuming. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of litigation or administrative proceedings more effectively than we can because of greater financial resources. Patent litigation and other proceedings may also absorb significant management time. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other. 39. proceedings could impair our ability to compete in the marketplace. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We may become involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents and other intellectual property rights, which could be expensive, time consuming, and unsuccessful.. Competitors may infringe our patents or the patents of our licensing partners, or we may be required to defend against claims of infringement. In addition, our patents or the patents of our licensing partners also may become involved in inventorship, priority or validity disputes. To counter or defend against such claims can be expensive and time consuming. In an infringement proceeding, a court may decide that a patent owned or in-licensed by us is invalid or unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our owned and in-licensed patents do not cover the technology in question. An adverse result in any litigation proceeding could put one or more of our owned or in-licensed patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation.. Even if resolved in our favor, litigation or other legal proceedings relating to intellectual property claims may cause us to incur significant expenses and could distract our personnel from their normal responsibilities. In addition, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions, or other interim proceedings or developments, and if securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Such litigation or proceedings could substantially increase our operating losses and reduce the resources available for development activities or any future sales, marketing, or distribution activities. We may not have sufficient financial or other resources to conduct such litigation or proceedings adequately. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation or proceedings more effectively than we can because of their greater financial resources and more mature and developed intellectual property portfolios. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace.. If our trademarks and trade names are not adequately protected, then we may not be able to build name recognition in our markets of interest and our business may be adversely affected.. Our registered or unregistered trademarks or trade names may be challenged, infringed, circumvented or declared generic or determined to be infringing on other marks. During trademark registration proceedings, including those for Amphora, we may receive rejections of our applications by the USPTO or in other foreign jurisdictions. Although we are given an opportunity to respond to those rejections, it may be unable to overcome such rejections. In addition, in the USPTO and in comparable agencies in many foreign jurisdictions, third parties are given an opportunity to oppose pending trademark applications and to seek to cancel registered trademarks. Opposition or cancellation proceedings may be filed against our trademarks, and our trademarks may not survive such proceedings. Moreover, any name we have proposed to use with our product candidate in the United States must be approved by the FDA, regardless of whether we have registered it, or applied to register it, as a trademark. Similar requirements exist in Europe. The FDA typically conducts a review of proposed product names, including an evaluation of potential for confusion with other product names. If the FDA (or an equivalent administrative body in a foreign jurisdiction) objects to any of our proposed proprietary product names, it may be required to expend significant additional resources in an effort to identify a suitable substitute name that would qualify under applicable trademark laws, not infringe the existing rights of third parties and be acceptable to the FDA. Furthermore, in many countries, owning and maintaining a trademark registration may not provide an adequate defense against a subsequent infringement claim asserted by the owner of a senior trademark.. We may not be able to protect our rights to these trademarks and trade names, which we need to build name recognition among potential partners or customers in our markets of interest. At times, competitors or other third parties may adopt trade names or trademarks similar to ours, thereby impeding our ability to build brand identity and possibly leading to market confusion. In addition, there could be potential trade name or trademark infringement claims brought by owners of other registered trademarks or trademarks that incorporate variations of our registered or unregistered trademarks or trade names. Over the long term, if we are unable to establish name recognition based on our trademarks and trade names, then we may not be able to compete effectively and our business may be adversely affected. Our efforts to enforce or protect our proprietary rights related to trademarks, trade secrets, domain names, copyrights or other intellectual property may be ineffective and could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. 40. Intellectual property rights do not necessarily address all potential threats.. The degree of future protection afforded by our intellectual property rights is uncertain because intellectual property rights have limitations and may not adequately protect our business or permit us to maintain our competitive advantage. For example:. •  others may be able to make products that are similar to our product candidate or utilize similar technology but that are not covered by the claims of the patents that we license or may own;. •  we, or our current or future licensors or collaborators, might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by the issued patent or pending patent application that we license or may own in the future;. •  we, or our current or future licensors or collaborators, might not have been the first to file patent applications covering certain of our or their inventions;. •  others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies without infringing our owned or licensed intellectual property rights;. •  it is possible that our current or future pending owned or licensed patent applications will not lead to issued patents;. •  issued patents that we hold rights to may be held invalid or unenforceable, including as a result of legal challenges by our competitors or other third parties;. •  our competitors or other third parties might conduct research and development activities in countries where we do not have patent rights and then use the information learned from such activities to develop competitive products for sale in our major commercial markets;. •  we may not develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable;. •  the patents of others may harm our business; and. •  we may choose not to file a patent in order to maintain certain trade secrets or know-how, and a third party may subsequently file a patent covering such intellectual property.. Should any of these events occur, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects.. Risks Related to Our Reliance on Third Parties. Our success relies on third-party suppliers and manufacturers. Any failure by such third parties, including failure to successfully perform and comply with regulatory requirements, could negatively impact our business and our ability to develop and market Amphora and potential future product candidates, and our business could be substantially harmed.. We have a small number of employees and no internal manufacturing capability. Our management does not expect to manufacture any products and expects to rely on third parties to make our products, and as such we will be subject to inherent uncertainties related to product safety, availability and security. To date, our contract manufacturer, Swiss-American, has only produced a small quantity of our MPT vaginal gel for clinical testing. Furthermore, we have only a single source of supply for some of the key raw materials and components of our MPT vaginal gel and alternate sources of supply may not be readily available.. Moreover, we do not expect to control the manufacturing processes for the production of our MPT vaginal gel or any of our other future products or product candidates, which must be made in accordance with relevant regulations, and includes, among other things, quality control, quality assurance, compliance with cGMP and the maintenance of records and documentation. In the future, it is possible that our suppliers or manufacturers may fail to comply with FDA regulations, the requirements of other regulatory bodies or our own requirements, all of which would result in suspension or prevention of commercialization and/or manufacturing of our products or product candidates, including our MPT vaginal gel and our lead product candidate, Amphora, suspension of ongoing research, disqualification of data or other enforcement actions such as product recall, injunctions, civil penalties or criminal prosecutions against us. Furthermore, we may be unable to replace any supplier or manufacturer with an alternate supplier or manufacturer on a commercially reasonable or timely basis, or at all.. If we were to experience an unexpected loss of supply of, or if any supplier or manufacturer were unable to meet our demand for our product candidates, we could experience delays in research, planned clinical studies or commercialization. We might be unable to find alternative suppliers or manufacturers with FDA approval, of acceptable quality, in the appropriate volumes and at an acceptable cost. The long transition periods necessary to switch manufacturers and suppliers would significantly delay our timelines, which would materially adversely affect our business, financial conditions, results of operation and prospects.. 41. In addition, our reliance on third-party manufacturers exposes us to the following additional risks:. •  we may be unable to identify manufacturers on acceptable terms or at all;. •  our third-party manufacturers might be unable to timely formulate and manufacture our product or produce the quantity and quality required to meet our clinical and commercial needs, if any;. •  Contract manufacturers may not be able to execute our manufacturing procedures appropriately;. •  our future third-party manufacturers may not perform as agreed or may not remain in the contract manufacturing business for the time required to supply our clinical trials or to successfully produce, store and distribute our products;. •  Manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA and corresponding state agencies to ensure strict compliance with cGMPs and other government regulations and corresponding foreign standards, and we do not have control over third-party manufacturers' compliance with these regulations and standards;. •  we may not own, or may have to share, the intellectual property rights to any improvements made by our third-party manufacturers in the manufacturing process for our product candidates; and. •  our third-party manufacturers could breach or terminate their agreement with us.. Each of these risks could delay our clinical trials, the approval, if any of our product candidates by the FDA or the commercialization of our product candidates or result in higher costs or deprive us of potential product revenue. In addition, we rely on third parties to perform release testing on our product candidates prior to delivery to patients. If these tests are not appropriately conducted and test data are not reliable, patients could be put at risk of serious harm, which could result in product liability suits.. The manufacture of medical products is complex and requires significant expertise and capital investment, including the development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. Manufacturers of medical products often encounter difficulties in production, particularly in scaling up and validating initial production and absence of contamination. These problems include difficulties with production costs and yields, quality control, including stability of the product, quality assurance testing, operator error, shortages of qualified personnel, as well as compliance with strictly enforced federal, state and foreign regulations. Furthermore, if contaminants are discovered in our supply of our product candidates or in the manufacturing facilities, such manufacturing facilities may need to be closed for an extended period of time to investigate and remedy the contamination. We cannot be assured that any stability or other issues relating to the manufacture of our product candidates will not occur in the future. Additionally, our manufacturers may experience manufacturing difficulties due to resource constraints or as a result of labor disputes or unstable political environments. If our manufacturers were to encounter any of these difficulties, or otherwise fail to comply with their contractual obligations, our ability to provide our product candidates to patients in clinical trials would be jeopardized. Any delay or interruption in the supply of clinical trial supplies could delay the completion of clinical trials, increase the costs associated with maintaining clinical trial programs and, depending upon the period of delay, require us to commence new clinical trials at additional expense or terminate clinical trials completely.. We have no internal distribution capabilities and intend to engage third-party distributors for distribution of products outside the United States. The inability to identify, or enter into an agreement with, any such third-party distributor, would likely have a material adverse effect on our business and operations.. Although we currently plan to market and sell our lead product candidate, Amphora, directly in the United States, we do intend to enter into distribution agreements with one or more distributors of Amphora outside the United States. We currently have not entered into any such distribution agreement with any such distributor, and we cannot guaranty that we will be able to enter into any such distribution agreement on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we were to outsource product distribution, including the distribution of Amphora or any future product candidate or product, this outsourcing would also be subject to uncertainties related to such distribution services, including the quality of such distribution services. For example, distributors may not have the capacity to supply sufficient product if demand increases rapidly. Further, we would be dependent on the distributors to ensure that the distribution process accords with relevant regulations, which includes, among other things, compliance with current good documentation practices, the maintenance of records and documentation and compliance with other regulations, including, without limitation, the FCPA. Failure to comply with these requirements could result in significant remedial action, including improvement of facilities, suspension of distribution or recall of product. Additionally, any failure by us to forecast demand for finished product, including Amphora, and failure by us to ensure our distributors have appropriate capacity to distribute such quantities of finished product, could result in an interruption in the supply of certain products and a decline in sales of that product. Further third-party distributors may not perform as agreed or may terminate their agreements with us. Any significant problem that our distributors experience could delay or interrupt our sale of products in the applicable jurisdiction until the applicable distributor cures the problem or until we identify and negotiate an acceptable agreement with an alternative distributor, if one is available. Any failure or delay in distributing products would likely have a negative impact on our business and operations.. 42. We rely and intend to rely on third-parties for the execution of our development programs for our MPT vaginal gel product candidates and our potential future product candidates. Failure of these third parties to provide services of a suitable quality and within acceptable timeframes may cause the delay or failure of our development programs.. We employ a business model that relies on the outsourcing of certain functions, tests and services to CROs, medical institutions and other specialist providers, including, without limitation, the conduct, management and monitoring of our ongoing and planned clinical trials. As a result, we rely on these third parties for, among other things, quality assurance, clinical monitoring, clinical data management and regulatory expertise. In terms of Amphora, we have engaged PAREXEL International Corporation as CRO to run substantially all aspects of the AMPOWER clinical trial. We also intend to engage a CRO for all future clinical trial requirements needed to file for regulatory approvals. There is no assurance that such organizations or individuals will be able to provide the functions, tests or services as agreed upon, or to the requisite quality. We will rely on the efforts of these organizations and individuals and could suffer significant delays in the development of our product or processes should they fail to perform as expected.. There is also no assurance that these third parties will not make errors in, or simply fail to be effective in, the design, management or retention of our data or data systems. Any failures by such third parties could lead to a loss of data, which in turn could lead to delays in clinical development and obtaining regulatory approval. Third parties may not pass FDA or other regulatory audits, which could delay or prohibit regulatory approval. In addition, the cost of such services could significantly increase over time. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, regulatory approval of our MPT vaginal gel product candidates or any future product candidates, may be delayed, prevented or cost significantly more than expected, all of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions, results of operation and prospects.. If we fail to enter into or maintain strategic relationships or collaborations with respect to future product candidates, or if we are unable to realize the potential benefits from such collaborations, our business, financial condition, commercialization prospects and results of operation may be materially adversely affected.. If we are successful in identifying and in-licensing the rights to additional product candidates, our expected strategy with respect to the development of any such future product candidates is to supplement internal efforts with third-party collaborations. We face significant competition in seeking appropriate collaborators. Collaborations are complex and time-consuming arrangements to negotiate and document.. Our success in entering into a definitive agreement for any collaboration will depend upon, among other things, our assessment of the collaborator's resources and expertise, the terms and conditions of the proposed collaboration and the proposed collaborator's evaluation of a number of factors. Those factors may include the design and outcomes of the clinical studies, the likelihood of approval by regulatory authorities, the potential market for the product, the costs and complexities of manufacturing and delivering such products to customers, the potential of competing products, the strength of the intellectual property and industry and market conditions generally. The collaborator may also consider alternative products or technologies for similar indications that may be available to collaborate on and whether such collaboration could be more attractive than the one with us for our products or product candidates.. Any potential collaboration agreement into which we might enter may call for licensing or cross-licensing of potentially blocking patents, know-how or other intellectual property. Due to the potential overlap of data, know-how and intellectual property rights, there can be no assurance that one of our collaborators will not dispute our right to use, license or distribute such data, know-how or other intellectual property rights, and this may potentially lead to disputes, liability or termination of the collaboration.. We may also be restricted under existing and future collaboration agreements from entering into agreements on certain terms with other potential collaborators and may not be able to negotiate collaborations on a timely basis, on acceptable terms, or at all. If that were to occur, we may have to curtail the development of a particular product, reduce or delay our development program, delay commercialization, reduce the scope of sales or marketing activities, or increase expenditures and undertake development or commercialization activities at our own expense. If we elect to fund development or commercialization activities on our own, we will need to obtain additional capital, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Absent sufficient funds, we may not be able to commercialize a product candidate. If we enter into a collaboration agreement regarding a product or product candidate, we could be subject to, among other things, the following risks, each of which may materially harm our business, commercialization prospects and financial condition:. •  we may not be able to control the amount and timing of resources that the collaborator devotes to the product development program;. •  we may experience financial difficulties and thus not commit sufficient financial resources to the product development program;. •  we may be required to relinquish important rights to the collaborator such as marketing, distribution and intellectual property rights;. •  a collaborator could move forward with a competing product developed either independently or in collaboration with third parties, including our competitors;. 43. •  a collaborator could terminate the agreement (for convenience if permitted) for our breach; or. •  business combinations or significant changes in a collaborator's business strategy may adversely affect our willingness to complete our obligations under any arrangement.. As a result, a collaboration may not result in the successful development or commercialization of our product candidates.. We enter into various contracts in the normal course of our business in which we indemnify the other party to the contract. In the event we have to perform under these indemnification provisions, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In the normal course of business, we periodically enter into academic, commercial, service, collaboration, licensing, consulting and other agreements that contain indemnification provisions. With respect to our academic and other research agreements, including the Rush License, we typically indemnify the institution and related parties from losses arising from claims relating to the products, processes or services made, used, sold or performed pursuant to the agreements for which we have secured licenses, and from claims arising from our or our sublicensees' exercise of rights under the agreement. With respect to collaboration agreements, we may have to indemnify our collaborators from any third-party product liability claims that could result from the production, use or consumption of the product, as well as for alleged infringements of any patent or other intellectual property right owned by a third party. With respect to consultants, we indemnify them from claims arising from the good faith performance of their services.. If our obligations under an indemnification provision exceed applicable insurance coverage or if we were denied insurance coverage, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Similarly, if we are relying on a collaborator to indemnify us and the collaborator is denied insurance coverage or the indemnification obligation exceeds the applicable insurance coverage, and if the collaborator does not have other assets available to indemnify us, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Risks Related to Commercialization of Our Product Candidates. We currently have limited marketing and sales experience. If we are unable to establish sales and marketing capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to market and sell our product candidates, we may be unable to generate any revenue.. Although some of our employees may have marketed, launched and sold other pharmaceutical products in the past while employed at other companies, we have no experience selling and marketing our product candidates, and we currently have no marketing or sales organization. To successfully commercialize any products that may result from our development programs, we will need to find one or more collaborators to commercialize our products or invest in and develop these capabilities, either on our own or with others, which would be expensive, difficult and time consuming. Any failure or delay in the timely development of our internal commercialization capabilities could adversely impact the potential for success of our products.. If commercialization collaborators do not commit sufficient resources to commercialize our future products and we are unable to develop the necessary marketing and sales capabilities on our own, we will be unable to generate sufficient product revenue to sustain or grow our business. We may be competing with companies that currently have extensive and well-funded marketing and sales operations, particularly in the markets our product candidates are intended to address. Without appropriate capabilities, whether directly or through third-party collaborators, we may be unable to compete successfully against these more established companies.. We face competition from other medical device, biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies and our operating results will suffer if we fail to compete effectively.. The medical device, biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are intensely competitive. Significant competition among various contraceptive products already exists. Existing products have name recognition, are marketed by companies with established commercial infrastructures and with greater financial, technical and personnel resources than us. In order to compete and gain market share, any new product will need to demonstrate advantages in efficacy, convenience, tolerability or safety. In addition, new products developed by others could emerge as competitors to Amphora, if approved. Such products could offer an alternative form of non-hormonal contraceptive that provides protection over longer periods of time. If we are not able to compete effectively against our current and future competitors, our business will not grow and our financial condition and operations will suffer.. Our potential competitors include large, well-established pharmaceutical companies and specialty pharmaceutical companies. These companies include Merck & Co., Inc., Allergan plc, Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd., Bayer AG, Johnson & Johnson, Cooper and Mylan Inc. Additionally, several generic manufacturers currently market and continue to introduce new generic contraceptives. There are other contraceptive product candidates in development that, if approved, would potentially compete with Amphora, including hormonal patches and hormonal vaginal rings.. 44. Our MPT vaginal gel product candidates and any of our future potential product candidates, may not gain acceptance among physicians, patients or the medical community, thereby limiting our potential to generate revenue, which will undermine our future growth prospects.. Even if our MPT vaginal gel, our lead product candidate, Amphora, or any of our future product candidates are approved for commercial sale by the FDA or other regulatory authorities, the degree of market acceptance of any new product by physicians, health care professionals and third-party payers will depend on a number of factors, including:. •  demonstrated evidence of efficacy and safety;. •  sufficient third-party insurance coverage or reimbursement;. •  effectiveness of our or our collaborators' sales and marketing strategy;. •  the willingness of uninsured consumers to pay for the product;. •  the willingness of pharmacy chains to stock the products;. •  the prevalence and severity of any adverse side effects; and. •  availability of alternative products.. If our MPT vaginal gel product candidates that we may license, develop or sell does not provide a benefit over currently available options, that product candidate is unlikely to achieve market acceptance and we will not generate sufficient revenues to achieve profitability.. The success of our MPT vaginal gel product candidates or any future contraceptive product candidate we may seek to develop, will depend on the availability of contraceptive alternatives and women's preferences, in addition to the market's acceptance of this specific method of contraception.. The commercial success of our MPT vaginal gel, Amphora, or any other future contraceptive product candidate we may seek to develop, will depend upon the contraceptive market as well as market acceptance of this alternative method. Risks related to market acceptance include, among other things:. •  minimum acceptable contraceptive efficacy rates;. •  perceived safety differences of hormonal and/or non-hormonal contraceptive options;. •  changes in healthcare laws and regulations, including the ACA, and its effect on pharmaceutical coverage, reimbursement and pricing, and the birth control mandate;. •  competition from new lower dose hormonal contraceptives with more favorable side effect profiles; and. •  new generic contraceptive options including a generic version of Amphoraas a contraceptive.. If one or more of these risks occur it could reduce the market potential for our MPT vagina gel, Amphora, or any future contraceptive product we may seek to develop, and place pressure on our business, financial condition, results of operation and prospects.. If we suffer negative publicity concerning the safety or efficacy of our products in development, our reputation could be harmed and we may be forced to cease development of such products.. If concerns should arise about the actual or anticipated clinical outcomes regarding the safety of any of our product candidates, such concerns could adversely affect the market's perception of these candidates. Such concerns could lead to a decline in investors' expectations and a decline in the price of our common stock.. We rely, and continue to expect to rely, on market research conducted on our behalf to evaluate the potential commercial acceptance our MPT vaginal gel product candidates and other future product candidates.. We have contracted with and expect to continue to contract with third parties to perform market research on our behalf. Based on the results of our market research to date, we believe that Amphora, if approved, would be an attractive alternative to hormonal birth control to certain women. However, these research findings may not be indicative or predictive of actual or overall market acceptance and any future market research may not be indicative of the acceptance for another product candidate or future product candidate we may develop.. 45. The commercial success of our MPT vaginal gel product candidates and any future product candidates will depend in significant measure on the label claims that the FDA or other regulatory authorities approve for the product.. The commercial success of our MPT vaginal gel, our lead product candidate, Amphora, and any of our future product candidates will depend in significant measure upon our ability to obtain approval from the FDA or other regulatory authorities of labeling describing a product candidate's expected features or benefits. Failure to achieve approval from the FDA or other regulatory authorities of product labeling containing adequate information on features or benefits will prevent or substantially limit our advertising and promotion of such features in order to differentiate Amphora or any future product candidate from those products that already exist in the market. This failure would have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operation and prospects.. The proportion of the contraceptive market that is made up of generic products continues to increase, making introduction of a branded contraceptive difficult and expensive.. The proportion of the U.S. market that is made up of generic products has been increasing over time. In 2005, generic contraceptive products held 47% of prescription volume and 34% of sales and, by 2011, those values had risen to 68% and 44%, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2016, approximately 83% of the prescription volume and approximately 43% of sales of combined hormonal contraceptives in the United States were generated by generic products. If this trend continues, it may be more difficult to introduce Amphora, if approved, or any future approved contraceptive product candidate we may develop, as a branded contraceptive, at a price that will maximize our revenue and profits. Also, there may be additional marketing costs to introduce Amphora in order to overcome the trend towards generics and to gain access to reimbursement by payers. If we are unable to introduce Amphora or any future approved contraceptive product candidate at a price that is commensurate with that of current branded contraceptive products, or we are unable to gain reimbursement from payers for Amphora, or if patients are unwilling to pay any price differential between Amphora and a generic contraceptive, our revenues will be limited.. Changes in healthcare laws and regulations may eliminate current requirements that health insurance plans cover and reimburse FDA-cleared or approved contraceptive products without cost sharing, which could reduce demand for products such as Amphora. Even if Amphora is approved for commercialization, our management expects that our success will be dependent on the willingness or ability of patients to pay out-of-pocket should they not be able to obtain third-party reimbursement or should such reimbursement be limited.. We cannot be certain that third-party reimbursement will be available for Amphora, and if reimbursement is available, the amount of any such reimbursement. The ACA and subsequent regulations enacted by the DHHS require health plans to provide coverage for women's preventive care, including all forms of FDA-cleared or approved contraception, without imposing any cost sharing on the plan beneficiary. These regulations ensure that women who wish to use an approved form of contraception may request it from their doctors and their health insurance plan must cover all costs associated with such products. However, after the 2016 election, the U.S. Federal Government is attempting to repeal the ACA and corresponding regulations, which would likely eliminate the requirement for health plans to cover women's preventive care without cost sharing. Even if the ACA is not repealed, the DHHS regulations to specifically enforce the preventive health coverage mandate could be repealed under the Congressional Review Act. Any repeal or elimination of the preventive care coverage rules would mean that women seeking to use prescribed forms of contraceptives may have to pay some portion of the cost for such products out-of-pocket, which could deter some women from using prescription contraceptive products, such as Amphora, at all. As a result, we expect that our success will be dependent on the willingness of patients to pay out-of-pocket for Amphora in the event that either they do not have insurance or their insurance requires payment of a portion of Amphora by the patient, thus increasing the patient's overall cost to use Amphora. This could reduce market demand for Amphora or any future product candidates we may seek to develop, if and when they receive FDA approval, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions, and prospects.. In the event that we are successful in obtaining regulatory approval to market our MPT vaginal gel product candidates or a future product in the United States, revenues may be adversely affected if the product fails to obtain insurance coverage or adequate reimbursement from third-party payers and administrators in the United States.. Third-party payers and administrators, including state Medicaid programs and Medicare, have recently been challenging the prices charged for pharmaceutical and medical device products. The United States government and other third-party payers are increasingly limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for new drugs and medical devices. Third-party insurance coverage may not be available to patients for Amphora or any future product we may seek to commercialize. If such government and other third-party payers do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement for Amphora or such products, healthcare providers may not prescribe them or patients may ask their healthcare providers to prescribe competing products with more favorable reimbursement.. Managed care organizations and other private insurers frequently adopt their own payment or reimbursement reductions. Consolidation among managed care organizations has increased the negotiating power of these entities. Private third-party payers, as well as governments, increasingly employ formularies to control costs by negotiating discounted prices in exchange for formulary inclusion. Failure to obtain timely or adequate pricing or formulary placement for our MPT vaginal gel, Amphora or any future product we may seek to commercialize,. 46. or obtaining such pricing or placement at unfavorable pricing levels, could materially adversely affect our business, financial conditions, results of operation and prospects.. The pharmaceutical and medical device industries are highly regulated and subject to various fraud and abuse laws, including, without limitation, the U.S. federal Anti-Kickback Statute, the U.S. federal False Claims Act and the U.S. FCPA.. Healthcare fraud and abuse regulations are complex, and even minor irregularities can potentially give rise to claims that a statute or prohibition has been violated. The laws that may affect our ability to operate include, among other things:. •  the federal healthcare programs' anti-kickback law, which prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs;. •  false claims laws which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payers that are false or fraudulent;. •  the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, which created federal criminal laws that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters; and. •  the U.S. FCPA, which prohibits corrupt payments, gifts or transfers of value to non-U.S. officials.. The scope and enforcement of these laws is uncertain and subject to rapid change in the current environment of healthcare reform, especially in light of the lack of applicable precedent and regulations. Regulatory authorities might challenge our current or future activities under these laws. Any such challenge could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, efforts to ensure that our business arrangements with third parties will comply with these laws will involve substantial costs. Any investigation of us or the third parties with whom we contract, regardless of the outcome, would be costly and time consuming.. Our business may be adversely affected by unfavorable macroeconomic conditions.. Various macroeconomic factors could adversely affect our business, our results of operations and financial condition, including changes in inflation, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates and overall economic conditions and uncertainties, including those resulting from political instability (including workforce uncertainty) and the current and future conditions in the global financial markets. For example, if inflation or other factors were to significantly increase our business costs, we may be unable to pass through price increases to patients. The cost of importing similar products from foreign markets may affect our sales in any domestic market.. Interest rates and the ability to access credit markets could also adversely affect the ability of patients, payers and distributors to purchase, pay for and effectively distribute our product if and when approved. Similarly, these macroeconomic factors could affect the ability of our current or potential future third-party manufacturers, sole source or single source suppliers, licensors or licensees to remain in business, or otherwise manufacture or supply our product candidate. Failure by any of them to remain in business could affect our ability to manufacture Amphora or any of our future product candidates.. Risks Related to Our Business Operations. As we mature and expand our sales and marketing infrastructure, we will need to expand the size of our organization. If we experience difficulties in managing this growth or fail to attract and retain management and other key personnel, we may be unable to successfully commercialize our products, develop any product candidates or otherwise implement our business plan.. As of February 9, 2018, we had a total of 23 full-time employees and use third-party consultants to assist with research and development activities, including regulatory filings and clinical trial operations and support, sales and marketing research and programs, as well as general and administrative activities. As our development and commercialization plans and strategies develop, we expect that we will expand the size of our employee base for managerial, operational, sales, marketing, financial, regulatory affairs and other resources. Future growth would impose significant added responsibilities on members of management, including the need to identify, recruit, maintain, motivate and integrate additional employees. In addition, management may have to divert a disproportionate amount of its attention away from day-to-day activities and devote a substantial amount of time to managing these growth activities, which would lead to disruptions in our operations. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to retain adequate staffing levels to run our operations and/or to accomplish all of the objectives that we otherwise would seek to accomplish.. Our ability to compete in the highly competitive pharmaceutical and medical device industries depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified managerial and key personnel. We are highly dependent on our senior management, including our President and Chief Executive Officer, Saundra Pelletier, our Chief Financial Officer, Justin J. File, Kelly Culwell, M.D., our Chief Medical Officer and Russell Barrans, our Chief Commercial Officer. The loss of the services of any of these individuals could impede, delay or prevent the development. 47. and commercialization of our product candidates, hurt our ability to raise additional funds and negatively impact our ability to implement our business plan. If we lose the services of any of these individuals, it might not be able to find suitable replacements on a timely basis or at all, and our business could be harmed as a result. We do not maintain \"key man\" insurance policies on the lives of these individuals.. We might not be able to attract or retain qualified management and other key personnel in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel among biotechnology, medical device, pharmaceutical and other businesses, particularly in the San Diego area where we are headquartered. As a result, we may be required to expend significant financial resources in our employee recruitment and retention efforts, including the grant of significant equity incentive awards which would be dilutive to stockholders. Many of the other companies within the contraceptive industry with whom we compete for qualified personnel have greater financial and other resources, different risk profiles and longer histories in the industry than we do. They also may provide more diverse opportunities and better chances for career advancement. If we are not able to attract and retain the necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives or if we are not able to effectively manage any future growth, we may experience constraints that will harm our ability to implement our business strategy and achieve our business objectives.. Our current or future employees, principal investigators, consultants and commercial partners may engage in misconduct or other improper activities, including non-compliance with regulatory standards.. We may become exposed to the risk of employees, independent contractors, principal investigators, consultants, suppliers, commercial partners or vendors engaging in fraud or other misconduct. Misconduct by employees, independent contractors, principal investigators, consultants, suppliers, commercial partners and vendors could include intentional failures such as failures: (i) to comply with FDA or other regulators' regulations, (ii) to provide accurate information to such regulators or (iii) to comply with manufacturing standards established by us and/or required by law. In particular, sales, marketing and business arrangements in the healthcare industry are subject to extensive laws, regulations and industry guidance intended to prevent fraud, misconduct, kickbacks, self-dealing and other abusive practices. These laws and regulations may restrict or prohibit a wide range of pricing, discounting, marketing and promotion, sales commission, customer incentive programs and other business arrangements. Misconduct by current or future employees, independent contractors, principal investigators, consultants, suppliers, commercial partners and vendors could also involve the improper use of information obtained in the course of clinical studies, which could result in regulatory or civil sanctions and serious harm to our reputation. It is not always possible to identify and deter misconduct by employees, independent contractors, principal investigators, consultants, suppliers, commercial partners and vendors, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses, or in protecting us from governmental investigations or other actions or lawsuits stemming from a failure to be in compliance with such laws or regulations. If any such actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending or asserting our rights, those actions could have a significant adverse impact on our business, including the imposition of significant fines or other sanctions, and our reputation.. We may be vulnerable to disruption, damage and financial obligations as a result of information technology system failures.. Despite the implementation of security measures, any of the internal computer systems belonging to us or our third-party service providers are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, war, and telecommunication and electrical failure. Any system failure, accident, security breach or data breach that causes interruptions in our own or in third-party service vendors' operations could result in a material disruption of our product development programs. For example, the loss of clinical study data from future clinical studies could result in delays in our or our partners' regulatory approval efforts and significantly increase our costs in order to recover or reproduce the lost data. Further, our information technology and other internal infrastructure systems, including firewalls, servers, leased lines and connection to the Internet, face the risk of systemic failure, which could disrupt our operations. To the extent that any disruption or security breach results in a loss or damage to our data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we may incur resulting liability, our product development programs and competitive position may be adversely affected and the further development of our products may be delayed. Furthermore, we may incur additional costs to remedy the damage caused by these disruptions or security breaches.. We expect to continue to incur increased costs as a result of operating as a public company and our management will be required to devote substantial time to compliance initiatives and corporate governance practices.. As a public company, we incur and expect to continue to incur additional significant legal, accounting and other expenses in relation to our status as a public reporting company. We expect that these expenses will further increase after we are no longer an \"emerging growth company.\" We may need to hire additional accounting, finance and other personnel in connection with our continuing efforts to comply with the requirements of being a public company, and our management and other personnel will need to continue to devote a substantial amount of time towards maintaining compliance with these requirements. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and Nasdaq have imposed various requirements on public companies, including establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly.. 48. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Section 404, we will be required to furnish a report by our management on our internal controls over financial reporting, including an attestation report on internal control over financial reporting issued by our independent registered public accounting firm. However, while we remain an \"emerging growth company,\" we will not be required to include an attestation report on internal control over financial reporting issued by our independent registered public accounting firm. To achieve compliance with Section 404 within the prescribed period, we will be engaged in a process to document and evaluate our internal control over financial reporting, which is both costly and challenging. In this regard, we will need to continue to dedicate internal resources, potentially engage outside consultants and adopt a detailed work plan to assess and document the adequacy of internal control over financial reporting, continue steps to improve control processes as appropriate, validate through testing that controls are functioning as documented and implement a continuous reporting and improvement process for internal control over financial reporting. If we identify one or more material weaknesses, this could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements.. Risks Related to our Common Stock. We expect the price of our common stock may be volatile and may fluctuate substantially.. The stock market in general and the market for biopharmaceutical companies in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The market price for our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including:. •  the results of our efforts to discover, develop, acquire or in-license product candidates or products, if any;. •  failure or discontinuation of any of our research programs;. •  actual or anticipated results from, and any delays in, any future clinical trials, as well as results of regulatory reviews relating to the approval of any product candidates we may choose to develop;. •  the level of expenses related to any product candidates that we may choose to develop or clinical development programs we may choose to pursue;. •  commencement or termination of any collaboration or licensing arrangement;. •  disputes or other developments relating to proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters and our ability to obtain patent protection for our technologies;. •  announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures and capital commitments;. •  additions or departures of key scientific or management personnel;. •  variations in our financial results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to us;. •  new products, product candidates or new uses for existing products introduced or announced by our competitors, and the timing of these introductions or announcements;. •  results of clinical trials of product candidates of our competitors;. •  general economic and market conditions and other factors that may be unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors, including changes in market valuations of similar companies;. •  regulatory or legal developments in the United States and other countries;. •  changes in the structure of healthcare payment systems;. •  conditions or trends in the biotechnology and biopharmaceutical industries;. •  actual or anticipated changes in earnings estimates, development timelines or recommendations by securities analysts;. •  announcement or expectation of additional financing efforts;. •  sales of common stock by us or our stockholders in the future, as well as the overall trading volume of our common stock; and. •  the other factors described in this \"Risk Factors\" section.. In the past, following periods of volatility in companies' stock prices, securities class-action litigation has often been instituted against such companies. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management's attention and resources, which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition.. 49. If we were to be delisted from Nasdaq, it could reduce the visibility, liquidity and price of our common stock.. There are various quantitative listing requirements for a company to remain listed on The Nasdaq Capital Market, including maintaining a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share and Nasdaq equity standards. There is no guarantee that we will be able to continue complying with the minimum bid price rule, the minimum equity standard or other Nasdaq requirements.. Delisting from The Nasdaq Capital Market could reduce the visibility, liquidity and price of our common stock.. Two of our stockholders own a significant percentage of our issued and outstanding common stock and will be able to exercise significant influence over matters submitted to stockholders for approval.. Funds affiliated with or discretionarily managed by Invesco Asset Management and funds affiliated with or discretionarily managed by Woodford Investment Management hold approximately 39.6% and 42.0%, respectively, of our outstanding common stock. We have entered into voting agreements with certain funds affiliated with Woodford Investment Management providing that the shares held by such holders in excess of 19.5% of our issued and outstanding common stock shall be voted in the same proportion as the shares voted by all other stockholders. Notwithstanding the voting agreements, if the funds affiliated with Woodford Investment Management and Invesco Asset Management were to choose to act together, they would be able to exert a significant degree of influence over matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, as well as our management and affairs. This concentration of voting power could delay or prevent an acquisition on terms that other stockholders may desire. For example, these entities, if they choose to act together, would be able to have significant influence on the election of directors, approval of any increase in the number of shares reserved under equity incentive plans, approval of new equity incentive plans, and approval of any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets.. In addition and per the terms of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, we are not subject to or governed by Section 203 of the DGCL, which prohibits a publicly-held Delaware corporation from engaging in a \"business combination\" with an \"interested stockholder,\" and the combined entity will be able to enter into transactions with our principal stockholders. A concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of the Company, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of the Company and may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. A significant portion of our total outstanding shares of common stock may be sold into the public market at any point, which could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well.. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could occur at any time. These sales, or the perception in the market that holders of a large number of shares intend to sell shares, could reduce the market price of our common stock. Outstanding shares of our common stock may be freely sold in the public market at any time to the extent permitted by Rules 144 and 701 under the Securities Act or to the extent such shares have already been registered under the Securities Act and are held by non-affiliates.. As of February 9, 2018, there were 399,962 shares of our common stock subject to outstanding options, 240,637 shares of which have been registered on registration statements on Form S-8. Shares registered on a Form S-8 can be freely sold in the public market upon exercise, except to the extent they will be held by our affiliates, in which case such shares will become eligible for sale in the public market as permitted by Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Furthermore, as of February 9, 2018, there were 2,011,875 shares subject to outstanding warrants to purchase common stock. These shares will become eligible for sale in the public market, to the extent such warrants are exercised, as permitted by Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Moreover, holders of approximately 15,026,968 shares of our common stock have rights, subject to conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering their shares or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" and the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies may make our common stock less attractive to investors.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the JOBS Act and may remain an emerging growth company through 2019. For so long as we remain an emerging growth company, we will be permitted to and intend to rely on exemptions from certain disclosure requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies. These exemptions include:. •  not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements in the assessment of our internal control over financial reporting;. •  not being required to comply with any requirement that may be adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board regarding mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditor's report providing additional information about the audit and the financial statements;. 50. •  reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation; and. •  exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved.. We may choose to take advantage of some, but not all, of the available exemptions. We cannot predict whether investors will find our common stock less attractive if we rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and the price of our common stock price may be more volatile.. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our capital stock in the foreseeable future; capital appreciation, if any, will be your sole source of gain as a holder of our common stock.. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on shares of our capital stock. We currently plan to retain all of our future earnings, if any, and any cash received as a result of future financings to finance the growth and development of our business. Accordingly, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be the sole source of gain for our common stockholders for the foreseeable future.. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our bylaws or Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of the Company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock.. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our bylaws or Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock, thereby depressing the market price of our common stock. In addition, because our board of directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions might frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove the current management by making it more difficult for our stockholders to replace members of our board of directors. These provisions include the following:. •  a classified board of directors with three-year staggered terms, which may delay the ability of stockholders to change the membership of a majority of our board of directors;. •  prohibiting our stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders or acting by written consent other than unanimous written consent;. •  permitting our board of directors to issue additional shares of our preferred stock, with such rights, preferences and privileges as they may designate, including the right to approve an acquisition or other changes in control;. •  establishing an advance notice procedure for stockholder proposals to be brought before an annual meeting, including proposed nominations of persons for election to our board of directors;. •  providing that our directors may be removed only for cause;. •  providing that vacancies on our board of directors may be filled only by a majority of directors then in office, even though less than a quorum; and. •  requiring the approval of our board of directors or the holders of a supermajority of our outstanding shares of capital stock to amend our bylaws and certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation.. Claims for indemnification by our directors and officers may reduce our available funds to satisfy successful third-party claims against us and may reduce the amount of money available to us.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws provides that we will indemnify our directors and officers, in each case to the fullest extent permitted by Delaware law.. In addition, as permitted by Section 145 of the DGCL, our amended and restated bylaws and our indemnification agreements that we have entered into with our directors and officers provide that:. •  We will indemnify our directors and officers for serving us in those capacities or for serving other business enterprises at our request, to the fullest extent permitted by Delaware law. Delaware law provides that a corporation may indemnify such person if such person acted in good faith and in a manner such person reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the registrant and, with respect to any criminal proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe such person's conduct was unlawful.. •  We may, in our discretion, indemnify employees and agents in those circumstances where indemnification is permitted by applicable law.. 51. •  We are required to advance expenses, as incurred, to our directors and officers in connection with defending a proceeding, except that such directors or officers shall undertake to repay such advances if it is ultimately determined that such person is not entitled to indemnification.. •  We will not be obligated pursuant to our amended and restated bylaws to indemnify a person with respect to proceedings initiated by that person against us or our other indemnitees, except with respect to proceedings authorized by our board of directors or brought to enforce a right to indemnification.. •  The rights conferred in our amended and restated bylaws are not exclusive, and we are authorized to enter into indemnification agreements with our directors, officers, employees and agents and to obtain insurance to indemnify such persons.. •  We may not retroactively amend our bylaw provisions to reduce our indemnification obligations to directors, officers, employees and agents.. If securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they publish negative evaluations of our common stock, the price of our common stock could decline.. The trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. We do not have any control over these analysts. If one or more of the analysts covering our business downgrade their evaluations of our common stock, the price of our common stock could decline. In addition, if one or more of these analysts cease coverage or fail to regularly publish reports on our business, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our common stock price or trading volume to decline."
