[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. This discussion highlights some of the risks that may affect future operating results. These are the risks and uncertainties we believe are most important for you to consider. We cannot be certain that we will successfully address these risks. If we are unable to address these risks, our business may not grow, our stock price may suffer and we may be unable to stay in business. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, which we currently deem immaterial or which are similar to those faced by other companies in our industry or business in general, may also impair our business operations.. We may never become profitable.. We have incurred losses since we were formed and only began generating revenue from Cologuard, our only product, in 2014. From our date of inception on February 10, 1995 through December 31, 2017, we have accumulated a total deficit of approximately $860.6 million. We expect to continue investing significantly toward development and commercialization of our colorectal cancer screening technology and other products and services. If our revenue does not grow significantly, we will not be profitable. We cannot be certain that the revenue from the sale of any products or services based on our technologies will be sufficient to make us profitable.. We may need additional capital to execute our business plan.. Although we believe that we have sufficient capital to fund our operations for at least the next twelve months, we may require additional capital to fully fund our current strategic plan, which includes successfully commercializing Cologuard and developing a pipeline of future products and services.  Additional financing may not be available in amounts or on terms satisfactory to us or at all.  Our success in raising additional capital may be significantly affected by general market conditions, the market price of our common stock, our financial condition, uncertainty about the future commercial success of Cologuard, the development and commercial success of future products or services, regulatory developments, the status and scope of our intellectual property, any ongoing litigation, our compliance with applicable laws and regulations and other factors.  If we raise additional funds through the sale of equity, convertible debt or other equity-linked securities, our stockholders' ownership will be diluted and the market price of our common stock could be depressed. We may issue securities that have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our common stock. If we raise additional funds through collaborations, licensing arrangements or other structured financing transactions, we may relinquish rights to certain of our technologies or products or services, grant security interests in our assets or grant licenses to third parties on terms that are unfavorable to us.. 16. Table of Contents. Our success depends heavily on our Cologuard colorectal cancer screening test.. For the foreseeable future, our ability to generate revenues will depend almost entirely on the commercial success of our Cologuard test. The commercial success of our Cologuard test and our ability to generate revenues will depend on a variety of factors, including the following:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tacceptance in the medical community;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinclusion of Cologuard in healthcare guidelines and recommendations, such as those developed by ACS and USPSTF;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinclusion of Cologuard in quality measures including the HEDIS measures and the CMS Medicare Advantage Star Ratings;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trecommendations and studies regarding Cologuard specifically or colorectal cancer screening generally that may be published by government agencies, professional organizations, academic or medical journals or other key opinion leaders;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpatient acceptance of and demand for the Cologuard test;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpatient compliance with orders for the Cologuard test by healthcare providers, and patient adherence over time to recommendations regarding periodic re-screening;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsuccessful sales, marketing, and educational programs, including successful direct-to-patient marketing such as television advertising and social media;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe number of patients screened for colorectal cancer, as well as the number of patients who use Cologuard for that purpose;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsufficient coverage and reimbursement by third-party payers, which may depend in whole or in part on multiple factors, including federal or state laws that mandate coverage for colorectal cancer screening, the extent to which those laws mandate coverage of Cologuard and the enforcement of those laws;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe amount and nature of competition from other colorectal cancer or pre-cancer screening products and procedures;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmaintaining FDA marketing approval of Cologuard;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe ease of use of our ordering process for physicians;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmaintaining and defending patent protection for the intellectual property relevant to Cologuard; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour ability to establish and maintain adequate commercial manufacturing, distribution, sales and CLIA laboratory testing capabilities.. If we are unable to develop and maintain substantial sales of our Cologuard test or if we are significantly delayed or limited in doing so, our business prospects, financial condition and results of operation would be adversely affected.. Our quarterly operating results could be subject to significant fluctuation, which could increase the volatility of our stock price and cause losses to our stockholders.. Our revenues and results of operations may fluctuate significantly, depending on a variety of factors, including the following:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour success in marketing and selling, and changes in demand for, our Cologuard test, and the level of reimbursement and collection obtained for Cologuard;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tseasonal variations affecting physician recommendations for colorectal cancer screenings and patient compliance with physician recommendations, including without limitation holidays, weather events, and circumstances such as the outbreak of influenza that may limit patient access to medical practices for preventive services such as colorectal cancer screening;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour success in collecting payments from third-party payers, patients and collaborative partners, variation in the timing of these payments and recognition of these payments as revenues;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe pricing of our Cologuard test, including potential changes in CMS or other reimbursement rates;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcircumstances affecting our ability to provide our Cologuard test, including weather events, supply shortages, or regulatory or other circumstances that adversely affect our ability to manufacture our Cologuard test or process Cologuard tests in our clinical laboratory;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfluctuations in the amount and timing of our selling and marketing costs and our ability to manage costs and expenses and effectively implement our business; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour research and development activities, including the timing of costly clinical trials.. 17. Table of Contents. Other companies or institutions may develop and market novel or improved technologies, which may make our technologies, including our Cologuard test, less competitive or obsolete.. The market for colorectal cancer and pre-cancer screening is large, consisting of more than 85 million Americans age 50 and above for whom routine colorectal cancer screening is recommended. As a result, this market has attracted competitors, some of which possess significantly greater financial and other resources and development capabilities than we do. Some companies and institutions are developing serum-based tests and screening tests based on the detection of proteins, nucleic acids or the presence of fragments of mutated genes in the blood that are produced by colorectal cancer or pre-cancer. We are aware of at least nine companies  -  Epigenomics AG, Gene News, EDP Biotech Corporation, Freenome Inc., GRAIL, Inc., CellMax, Inc., Volition Diagnostics, Cambridge Epigenetix Limited, and Nucleix Ltd.  -  that have developed, or are developing blood-based tests for the detection of colorectal cancer. Epigenomics AG received FDA approval for its blood-based (or \"liquid biopsy\") screening test for colorectal cancer, Epi proColon, in April 2016, and began offering the test commercially in May 2016. Freenome Inc. is developing a blood-based test that uses artificial intelligence capabilities to screen for certain cancers and pre-cancers.  GRAIL, Inc. is developing a blood-based test utilizing next-generation gene sequencing to detect genetic mutations associated with certain cancers or pre-cancers and has begun enrolling more than 100,000 patients in two new product trials. Researchers at Johns Hopkins School of Medicine are developing a new noninvasive blood-screening test called CancerSEEK, which aims to use one test to identify the presence of eight different types of cancers, including lung, liver and colorectal cancers.. We believe other companies are also working on liquid biopsy tests using next-generation sequencing or other technology, and these tests could represent significant competition for Cologuard and other tests we may develop. Our Cologuard test also faces competition from procedure-based detection technologies such as flexible sigmoidoscopy, colonoscopy and \"virtual\" colonoscopy (a radiological imaging approach that visualizes the inside of the bowel by use of spiral computerized axial tomography known as a CT scan) as well as traditional screening tests such as FOBT and FIT and newer screening technologies such as pill-based imaging solutions like PillCam COLON, cleared by the FDA in February 2014, and C-Scan, which recently obtained a CE Mark. Our competitors may also be working on additional methods of detecting colorectal cancer and pre-cancer that have not yet been announced.. Beyond our Cologuard test, as we seek to develop other tools to detect cancer and pre-cancer, we expect to compete with a broad range of organizations in the U.S. and other countries that are engaged in the development, production and commercialization of cancer diagnostic tools.  These competitors include:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tbiotechnology, diagnostic and other life science companies;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tacademic and scientific institutions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tgovernmental agencies; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpublic and private research organizations.. We may be unable to compete effectively against our competitors either because their products and services are superior or because they may have more expertise, experience, financial resources or stronger business relationships. Our competitors may have broader product lines and greater name recognition than we do. We have limited experience developing tests for the detection of non-colorectal cancers and we cannot guarantee that our research and development activities will be successful in developing any marketable testing products or services. Further, even if we do develop new marketable products or services, our current and future competitors may develop products and services that are more commercially attractive than ours and they may bring those products and services to market earlier or more effectively than us.. We face uncertainty related to healthcare reform, pricing, coverage and reimbursement, which could reduce our revenue.. Healthcare reform laws, including the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the \"ACA\") and the Protecting Access to Medicare Act of 2014 (\"PAMA\"), are significantly affecting the U.S. healthcare and medical services industry.  Existing legislation, and possible future legal and regulatory changes, including potential repeal or modification of the ACA, elimination of penalties regarding the individual mandate for coverage, or approval of health plans that allow lower levels of coverage for preventive services, could substantially change the structure and finances of the health insurance system and the methodology for reimbursing medical services, drugs and devices, including our current and future products and services.  Any change in reimbursement policy could result in a change in patient cost-sharing, which could adversely affect patient willingness and ability to use our Cologuard test and any other product or. 18. Table of Contents. service we may develop.  Healthcare reforms, which may intend to reduce healthcare costs, may have the effect of discouraging third-party payers from covering certain kinds of medical products and services, particularly newly developed technologies, such as our Cologuard test or other products or tests we may develop in the future.. Coverage of Cologuard may also depend, in whole or in part, on whether payers determine, or courts and/or regulatory authorities determine, coverage is required under applicable federal or state laws mandating coverage of certain colorectal cancer screening services. For example, Section 2713 of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (\"ACA\") mandates that certain health insurers cover evidence-based items or services that have in effect a rating of \"A\" or \"B\" in the current recommendations of USPSTF without imposing any patient cost-sharing (\"ACA Mandate\"). Similarly, federal regulations require that Medicare Advantage plans cover \"A\" or \"B\" rated preventive services without patient cost-sharing. Following the June 2016 update to the USPSTF colorectal cancer screening recommendation statement, CMS issued an updated Evidence of Coverage notice for Medicare Advantage plans that affirms such plans must include coverage of Cologuard every three years without patient cost-sharing. While we believe the ACA Mandate will require most health insurers to cover Cologuard without patient cost-sharing (following an initial phase-in period between one and two years from the date of the updated USPSTF recommendation statement depending on the date a given plan year commences), it is possible that certain health insurers will disagree and determine not to cover Cologuard. It may be difficult for us or patients to enforce the ACA Mandate directly, and we may need to rely on states to take enforcement action, which they may choose not to do. It is also possible that the ACA Mandate will be repealed or significantly modified in the future.. Several states have laws mandating coverage for preventive services, such as colorectal cancer screening services, applicable to certain health insurers.  Not all of these laws apply to Cologuard, however.  Further, if the ACA is repealed or replaced, or even if it is not, states may decide to modify their laws, which may include repeal of those coverage mandates that we believe currently apply to Cologuard.. Under PAMA, effective January 1, 2018, the CMS reimbursement rate for Cologuard was set at $508.87, which was the volume-weighted median of private payer rates for Cologuard from January 1, 2016 through June 30, 2016. The CMS reimbursement rate will subsequently be reset every three years, based on the volume-weighted median of private payer rates experienced in the applicable six-month data collection period. If the CMS reimbursement rate for Cologuard is reduced pursuant to PAMA or otherwise, our revenues would likely be adversely affected. PAMA presents significant uncertainty for future CMS reimbursement rates for Cologuard. Because Medicare currently covers approximately 47 percent of patients in the screening population for Cologuard, any reduction in the CMS reimbursement rate for Cologuard would negatively affect our revenues and our business prospects.. If third-party payers, including managed care organizations, do not approve and maintain reimbursement for our Cologuard test at adequate reimbursement rates, we may be unable to successfully commercialize our Cologuard test which, we expect, would limit or slow our revenue generation and likely have a material adverse effect on our business.. Successful commercialization of our Cologuard test depends, in large part, on the availability of adequate reimbursement from government insurance plans, managed care organizations and private insurance plans. Although we received a positive coverage decision and what we believe is an adequate reimbursement rate from CMS for our Cologuard test, it is also critical that other third-party payers approve and maintain reimbursement for our Cologuard test at adequate reimbursement rates. Third-party payers are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for new healthcare products. As a result, there is significant uncertainty surrounding whether the use of tests that incorporate new technology, such as our Cologuard test, will be eligible for coverage by third-party payers or, if eligible for coverage, what the reimbursement rates will be. Reimbursement of sDNA colorectal cancer screening by a third-party payer may depend on a number of factors, including a payer's determination that tests using our technologies are: sensitive and specific for colorectal cancer and pre-cancer; not experimental or investigational; approved or recommended by the major guidelines organizations; subject to applicable federal or state coverage mandates; reliable, safe and effective; medically necessary; appropriate for the specific patient; and cost-effective.. If we are unable to obtain positive decisions from third-party payers, including managed care organizations, approving reimbursement for our Cologuard test at adequate levels, its commercial success will be compromised and our revenues would be significantly limited. We may also experience material delays in obtaining such reimbursement decisions and payment for our Cologuard test that are beyond our control. Further, there can be no assurance that CMS. 19. Table of Contents. and commercial payers who initially decide to cover Cologuard will continue to do so. We are pursuing a variety of strategies to increase commercial payer coverage and reimbursement of Cologuard. In certain situations, where we believe payers are obligated to cover Cologuard under federal and state laws that mandate coverage for certain colorectal cancer screening tests, we have sued to enforce coverage obligations. We may pursue similar litigation in the future. Such litigation may be costly, may divert management attention from other responsibilities, may cause payers, including those not directly involved in the litigation, to resist contracting with us, and may ultimately prove unsuccessful.. As noted above, federal and state coverage mandates may be deemed not to apply to Cologuard, may be interpreted in a manner unfavorable to us, may be difficult to enforce and are subject to repeal or modification.  For example, the ACA may be repealed or materially modified, in whole or in part, or replaced with an alternative legal framework governing healthcare matters.  Such repeal, modification or replacement may eliminate or modify the coverage mandate for preventive services, and any such elimination or modification may have an adverse effect on our business prospects.. Moreover, coverage determinations and reimbursement rates are subject to change, and we cannot guarantee that even if we initially achieve adequate coverage and reimbursement rates, they will be applicable to our Cologuard test in the future. As noted above, under PAMA, our Medicare reimbursement rate will be subject to adjustment based on our volume-weighted median commercial reimbursement rate. A reduction in our Medicare reimbursement rate could significantly and adversely affect our business products, financial condition and results of operation.. Even where a third-party payer agrees to cover Cologuard, other factors may have a significant impact on the actual reimbursement we receive for a Cologuard test from that payer.  For example, if we do not have a contract with a given payer, we may be deemed an \"out-of-network\" provider by that payer, which could result in a greater portion of the cost of the Cologuard test being borne by the patient.  We may be unsuccessful in our efforts to enter into, or maintain, a network contract with a given payer, and we expect that our network status with a given payer may change from time to time for a variety of reasons, many of which may be outside our control. To the extent Cologuard is out of network for a given payer, physicians may be less likely to prescribe Cologuard for their patients and their patients may be less likely to comply with those prescriptions that are written.  Also, some payers may require that they give prior authorization for a Cologuard test before they are willing to pay for it or review claims post-service to ensure the service was medically appropriate for specific patients.  Prior authorization and other medical management practices may require that we, patients or physicians provide the payer with extensive medical records and other information.  Prior authorization and other medical management practices impose a significant additional cost on us, may be difficult to comply with given our position as a laboratory that generally does not have direct access to patient medical records, may make physicians less likely to prescribe Cologuard for their patients, and may make patients less likely to comply with physician orders for Cologuard, all or any of which may have an adverse effect on our revenues.. If our clinical studies do not satisfy providers, payers, patients and others as to the reliability, effectiveness and superiority of our Cologuard test or any future test we may develop and seek to commercialize, we may experience reluctance or refusal on the part of physicians to order, and third-party payers to pay for, such test.. Although we have received FDA approval for our Cologuard test, if the results of our research and clinical studies and our sales and marketing activities relating to communication of these results, do not convince guidelines organizations, physicians and other healthcare providers, third-party payers and patients that our Cologuard test is reliable, effective and superior to alternative screening methods, we may experience reluctance or refusal on the part of physicians to order, and third-party payers to pay for, our Cologuard test, which could adversely affect our business prospects. Likewise, if the results of our research and clinical studies and our sales and marketing activities relating to communication of these results, do not convince guidelines organizations, physicians and other healthcare providers, third-party payers and patients that other tests we may develop and seek to commercialize in the future are reliable, effective and superior to alternative tests, we may experience reluctance or refusal on the part of physicians to order, and third-party payers to pay for, those tests, which could adversely affect our business prospects.. We have finite selling and marketing resources and only limited sales, marketing, customer support, manufacturing, distribution and commercial laboratory experience, which may restrict our success in commercializing Cologuard and other products we may develop, and we may be unsuccessful in entering into or maintaining third-party arrangements to support our internal efforts.. To grow our business as planned, we must expand our sales, marketing and customer support capabilities, which will involve developing and administering our commercial infrastructure and/or collaborative commercial arrangements. 20. Table of Contents. and partnerships. We must also maintain satisfactory arrangements for the manufacture and distribution of our Cologuard test. Also, in connection with the launch of Cologuard in late 2014, we began operating a CLIA certified lab facility to process Cologuard tests and provide patient results. We have limited experience managing a sales force, customer support operation and operating a manufacturing operation and clinical lab facility and we may encounter difficulties retaining and managing the specialized workforce these activities require. We may seek to partner with others to assist us with any or all of these functions. However, we may be unable to find appropriate third parties with whom to enter into these arrangements. Furthermore, if we do enter into these arrangements, these third parties may not perform as expected or the arrangements may otherwise prove to be detrimental to our short -  and long - term results. For example, certain third - party arrangements may cause us to forego or defer the development or acquisition of internal capabilities. If a third - party arrangement fails to perform as expected or if it is terminated prematurely for any reason, our business may be harmed not only by such failure or termination itself, but also by the opportunity cost associated with not timely developing or acquiring necessary or useful capabilities internally.. If we are unable to deploy and maintain effective sales, marketing and medical affairs capabilities, we will have difficulty achieving market awareness and selling our products and services.. To achieve commercial success for our Cologuard test and our future products and services, we must continue to develop and grow our sales, marketing and medical affairs organizations and our sales, marketing and medical affairs organizations must effectively explain to healthcare providers the reliability, effectiveness and benefits of Cologuard and our future products and services as compared to alternatives. We may not be able to successfully manage our dispersed or inside sales forces or our sales force may not be effective. Because of the competition for their services, we may be unable to partner with or retain additional qualified sales representatives or marketing or medical affairs personnel, either as our employees or independent contractors or through independent sales or other third-party organizations. We may not be able to enter into agreements with sales representatives on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Further, market competition for commercial, marketing and medical affairs talent is significant, and we may not be able to hire or retain such talent on commercially reasonable terms, if at all.. Establishing and maintaining sales, marketing and medical affairs capabilities will be expensive and time-consuming. Our expenses associated with maintaining our sales force may be disproportional compared to the revenues we may be able to generate on sales of the Cologuard test or any future products or services.. The success of our Cologuard test depends on the degree of market acceptance by physicians, patients, healthcare payers and others in the medical community.. Our Cologuard test may not gain market acceptance by physicians, healthcare payers and others in the medical community. The degree of market acceptance of our Cologuard test will depend on a number of factors, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tits demonstrated sensitivity and specificity for detecting colorectal cancer and pre-cancer;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tits price;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe availability and attractiveness of alternative screening methods;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe willingness of physicians to prescribe Cologuard;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe ease of use of our ordering process for physicians; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadequate third-party coverage or reimbursement.. Use of a stool-based DNA colorectal cancer screening test requires people to collect a stool sample, which some people may be reluctant to do. If our Cologuard test does not achieve an adequate level of acceptance, we may not generate the substantial revenues we need to generate to become profitable.. Our assumptions regarding the market opportunity for Cologuard may not prove true. We estimate the potential market opportunity for Cologuard assuming, among other things, the size of the screening population, a 40-percent test adoption rate in the screening population and a three-year screening interval. Although ACS guidelines and others recommend a three-year screening interval for Cologuard and CMS has determined that Medicare will cover the test at this interval, the label for Cologuard does not specify a three-year interval and physicians, healthcare payers, the FDA and other regulators and opinion leaders could recommend a different interval. Further, patients may not adhere to any recommended testing interval.. 21. Table of Contents. Recommendations, guidelines and quality metrics issued by various organizations, including the U.S. Preventative Services Task Force, the American Cancer Society and the National Committee for Quality Assurance, may significantly affect payers' willingness to cover, and physicians' willingness to prescribe, our products.. Securing influential recommendations, inclusion in healthcare guidelines and inclusion in quality measures are keys to our physician and payer engagement strategies.  These guidelines, recommendations and quality metrics may shape payers' coverage decisions and physicians' cancer screening procedures.. The U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (\"USPSTF\"), a panel of primary care physicians and epidemiologists and other national experts funded by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services' Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, makes influential recommendations on clinical preventative services. In June 2016, the USPSTF issued an updated recommendation statement for colorectal cancer screening, and gave an \"A\" grade to colorectal cancer screening starting at age 50 and continuing until age 75. The statement specifies seven screening methods, including FIT-DNA (which is Cologuard). USPSTF updates its screening recommendations periodically, approximately every five to eight years.  We cannot be certain when USPSTF will next update its colorectal cancer screening recommendations, whether updated recommendations will continue to give an \"A\" grade to colorectal cancer screening between the ages of 50 and 75, whether updated recommendations will continue to include FIT-DNA, whether updated recommendations may take a different format, including by ranking different methodologies and positioning FIT-DNA below other methodologies, or whether updated recommendations will include new technologies that are competitive with Cologuard and that may have greater appeal to physicians, patients and payers.  Any update to the USPSTF recommendations that may have the effect of reducing screening, that does not include FIT-DNA in a favorable manner, or that adds new technologies could have a material adverse effect on our business.. The 2016 USPSTF recommendation statement may have certain potentially significant implications. For example, the ACA mandates that certain non-grandfathered health insurers cover evidence-based items or services that have in effect a rating of \"A\" or \"B\" in the current recommendations of USPSTF without imposing any patient cost-sharing. Similarly, federal regulations require that Medicare Advantage plans cover \"A\" or \"B\" graded preventive services without patient cost-sharing. Following the updated USPSTF recommendation statement, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (\"CMS\") issued an updated Evidence of Coverage notice for Medicare Advantage plans that affirms such plans must include coverage of Cologuard every three years without patient cost-sharing. While we believe the ACA Mandate will require certain health insurers to cover Cologuard without patient cost-sharing (following an initial phase in period between one and two years), it is possible that certain health insurers will disagree, in which case courts and/or government agencies may need to resolve the issue. Enforcement of the ACA Mandate may be difficult and may depend, in whole or in part, on state, federal or other third party enforcement actions that we would not control.  Further, a court or regulatory agency may agree with arguments that may be made by insurers and determine that the ACA Mandate does not require that they cover Cologuard or may otherwise interpret the ACA Mandate in a manner unfavorable to us.  Also, Congress may modify or repeal all or part of the ACA, and any such modification or repeal may repeal or limit the ACA Mandate for preventive services. If the ACA Mandate for preventive services is repealed or modified, if the ACA Mandate is determined not to require coverage of Cologuard, if the ACA Mandate is otherwise interpreted in a manner unfavorable to us, or if we are unable to secure effective enforcement of the ACA Mandate, even if it is held to require coverage of Cologuard, our business prospects may be adversely affected.. In addition, the healthcare industry in the United States has experienced a trend toward cost containment and value-based purchasing of healthcare services. Some government and private payers are adopting pay-for-performance programs that differentiate payments for healthcare services based on the achievement of documented quality metrics, cost efficiencies or patient outcomes. Payers may look to quality measures such as the National Committee for Quality Assurance (\"NCQA\"), Healthcare Effectiveness Data and Information Set (\"HEDIS\") and the CMS Medicare Advantage Star Ratings to assess quality of care. These measures are intended to provide incentives to service providers to deliver the same or better results while consuming fewer resources. In October 2016, the NCQA included Cologuard testing on a three-year interval in the final published 2017 HEDIS measures. In April 2017, CMS released final details for the 2018 Medicare Advantage Star Ratings program and included Cologuard. If for some reason Cologuard was removed from, or not included in, HEDIS, the Star Ratings or other quality metrics, payers may be less inclined to reimburse our Cologuard test at adequate levels, if at all, which could adversely impact our business. Additionally, if Cologuard was removed from, or not included in, HEDIS, the Star Ratings or other quality metrics, physicians may not earn quality credit for prescribing Cologuard and therefore may be less inclined to do so. If Cologuard fails to maintain its current position within any updated USPSTF colorectal cancer screening recommendations, Cologuard may, as a result, become excluded from the HEDIS measures and the Star Ratings.. 22. Table of Contents. We expect to make significant investments to research and develop new cancer diagnostic tools, which may not be successful.. In addition to commercializing our Cologuard test, we are seeking to develop a pipeline for future products and services, including screening and diagnostic tests for liver, lung and other types of cancers. We expect to incur significant expenses on these development efforts but they may not be successful.. Developing new cancer diagnostic tools is a speculative and risky endeavor.  Candidate products and services that may initially show promise may fail to achieve the desired results in larger clinical studies or may not achieve acceptable levels of clinical accuracy.  We may need to explore a number of different marker combinations, alter our candidate products or platform technologies and repeat clinical studies before we identify a potentially successful candidate.  We may need to acquire, whether through purchase, license or otherwise, technologies owned by third parties, and we may not be able to acquire such technologies on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Product development is expensive, may take years to complete and can have uncertain outcomes.  Failure can occur at any stage of the development.  If, after development, a candidate product or service appears successful, we may, depending on the nature of the product or service, still need to obtain FDA and other regulatory clearances or approvals before we can market it.  The FDA's clearance or approval pathways are likely to involve significant time, as well as additional research, development and clinical study expenditures.  There can be no guarantee that the FDA would clear or approve any future product or service we may develop.  Even if the FDA clears or approves a new product or service we develop, we would need to commit substantial resources to commercialize, sell and market it before it could be profitable, and the product or service may never be commercially viable. Additionally, development of any product or service may be disrupted or made less viable by the development of competing products or services.. If we determine that any of our current or future development programs is unlikely to succeed, we may abandon it without any return on our investment into the program. We may need to raise significant additional capital to bring any new products or services to market, which may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all.. We may not be able to successfully establish and maintain strategic collaborative and licensing arrangements with third parties, which could adversely affect our ability to commercialize our Cologuard test and to develop and commercialize other products and services.. The commercialization of our Cologuard test and the development and commercialization of other products and services rely, directly or indirectly, upon strategic collaborations and licensing agreements with third parties. We currently have a collaborative and licensing arrangement with MAYO Foundation for Medical Education and Research. In addition, we have licensing agreements with Hologic and University of Michigan. Such arrangements provide us with intellectual property crucial to our product development and commercialization, including technology that we have incorporated into our Cologuard test. Our dependence on licensing, collaboration and other similar agreements with third parties may subject us to a number of risks. There can be no assurance that any current contractual arrangements between us and third parties or between our strategic partners and other third parties will be continued on materially similar terms and will not be breached or terminated early. Any failure to obtain or retain the rights to necessary technologies on acceptable commercial terms could require us to re-configure our products and services, which could negatively impact their commercial sale or increase the associated costs, either of which could materially harm our business and adversely affect our future revenues.. As we commercialize and market our Cologuard test and develop new products and services, we expect to continue and expand our reliance on collaborative and licensing arrangements. Establishing new strategic collaborations and licensing arrangements is difficult and time-consuming. Discussions with potential collaborators or licensors may not lead to the establishment of collaborations on favorable terms, if at all. To the extent we agree to work exclusively with one collaborator in a given area, our opportunities to collaborate with other entities could be limited. Potential collaborators or licensors may reject collaborations with us based upon their assessment of our financial, regulatory or intellectual property position. Even if we successfully establish new collaborations, these relationships may never result in the successful commercialization of any product or service.. 23. Table of Contents. If we fail to meet any applicable requirements of CLIA or similar state laws, that failure could adversely affect any future payer consideration of our technologies, prevent their approval entirely, and/or interrupt the commercial sale and/or marketing of any products and services and otherwise cause us to incur significant expense.. We are subject to federal and state laws and regulations regarding the operation of clinical laboratories. Federal Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (\"CLIA\") requirements and laws of certain states, including New York, impose certification requirements for clinical laboratories, establish standards for quality assurance and quality control, among other things. Some state laws restrict laboratory marketing activities, which may adversely affect our ability to market our laboratory services. Clinical laboratories are subject to inspection by regulators, and to sanctions for failing to comply with applicable requirements. Sanctions available under CLIA include prohibiting a laboratory from running tests, requiring a laboratory to implement a corrective plan, and imposing civil monetary penalties. If we fail to meet any applicable requirements of CLIA or state law, that failure could adversely affect any future payer consideration of our technologies, prevent their approval entirely, and/or interrupt the commercial sale and/or marketing of any products and services and otherwise cause us to incur significant expense.. We must maintain FDA approval for Cologuard and of our Madison, Wisconsin facilities; failure to maintain compliance with FDA requirements may prevent or delay the marketing or manufacture of our Cologuard test.. As a condition of the FDA approval of our Cologuard test, we are required to conduct a post-approval study. We anticipate that the post-approval study will require significant funding and resources to reach its conclusion. There is a risk that the FDA may modify or withdraw the approval of Cologuard if the results of this post-approval study are not satisfactory or are inconsistent with previous studies. We rely on third parties, such as contract research organizations, medical institutions and clinical investigators to conduct the post-approval study. We have limited control over the activities of these third parties and the post-approval study may be delayed or halted prior to its completion for reasons outside our control.. Additionally, our Madison, Wisconsin facilities are periodically subject to inspection by the FDA and other governmental agencies to ensure they meet production and quality standards. Operations at these facilities could be interrupted or halted if the FDA or other governmental agency deems the findings of such inspections unsatisfactory. Failure to comply with FDA or other regulatory requirements could result in fines, unanticipated compliance expenditures, recall or seizures of our products, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, termination of ongoing research, disqualification of data for submission to regulatory authorities, enforcement actions, injunctions and criminal prosecution. In addition, circumstance may arise that cause us to recall products or equipment used in connection with our Cologuard test, and such recalls could have an adverse effect on our ability to provide the Cologuard test, which in turn would adversely affect our financial condition.. Our inability to obtain without delay any necessary regulatory clearances or approvals for new diagnostic products or services, or improvements to our current offerings, could materially encumber future product commercialization.. We may develop new diagnostic test candidates that are regulated by the FDA as medical devices.  Unless otherwise exempted, medical devices must receive from the FDA either \"510(k) clearance\" or premarket approval (\"PMA\") before marketing them in the United States.  The FDA determines whether a medical device will require either 510(k) clearance or the PMA process based on statutory criteria that include the risk associated with the device and whether the device is similar to an existing, legally marketed product.  The process to obtain either 510(k) clearance or PMA will likely be costly, time-consuming and uncertain.  However, we believe the PMA process is generally more challenging. Even if we design a product that we expect to be eligible for the 510(k) clearance process, the FDA may require that the product undergo the PMA process.  There can be no assurance that the FDA will ever permit us to market any new product or service that we develop. Even if regulatory approval is granted, such approval may include significant limitations on indicated uses, which could materially and adversely affect the prospects of any new product or service.. FDA regulatory approval or clearance is not just required for new products and services we develop, but would also be required for certain enhancements we may seek to make to our Cologuard test.. Delays in receipt of, or failure to obtain, clearances or approvals could materially delay or prevent us from commercializing our products and services or result in substantial additional costs that could decrease our profitability.. 24. Table of Contents. In addition, even if we receive FDA clearance or approval for a new or enhanced product or service, the FDA may condition, withdraw or materially modify its clearance or approval.. In the future, we may develop tests that could be regulated as laboratory developed tests (\"LDTs\"). If the FDA proceeds with its plans to actively regulate LDTs or continues to regulate LDTs with enforcement discretion, we may need to obtain additional FDA or other regulatory approvals, which may delay, encumber or block us from commercializing these diagnostic tests.. We may develop products or services that would be regulated as LDTs under CLIA. LDTs are clinical laboratory tests that are developed, validated and manufactured by a laboratory for its own use.  Historically, LDTs have been regulated under CLIA while the FDA has exercised enforcement discretion and not required approvals or clearances for most LDTs performed by CLIA-certified laboratories. The FDA has historically chosen not to exercise its authority to regulate LDTs because LDTs were limited in number, were relatively simple tests, and typically were used to diagnose rare disease and uncommon conditions.. In October 2014, the FDA published two draft guidance documents describing a proposed risk-based framework under which it might regulate LDTs. The FDA's draft framework proposed, among other things, premarket review for higher-risk LDTs, such as those that have the same intended use as FDA-approved or cleared diagnostics currently on the market. In November 2015, the FDA issued a report citing evidence for the need for additional regulation of LDTs and stated the FDA is continuing to work to finalize premarket review requirements for LDTs.  However, in November 2016, the FDA announced it would not issue a final guidance for LDTs. In January 2017, the FDA issued a Discussion Paper on LDTs, which confirmed it would not finalize guidance on the regulation of LDTs to allow more time for public discussion and time for the congressional authorizing committees to develop a legislative solution. We cannot predict the timing, content or form of any legislation, regulation or guidance, or the potential effect on our existing molecular diagnostic tests or our tests in development, or the potential impact of such guidance or regulation on our business, financial condition or results of operation.. The FDA's guidance documents, if and when finalized, or the exercise of enforcement discretion by FDA, may materially impact our development of LDTs and may require us to change our business model in order to maintain compliance with these regulations. New laws and regulations may significantly slow the time it takes us to bring LDTs to market, may materially increase the costs of developing, and decrease the profitability of providing, LDTs, and may prevent us from commercializing certain products or services. We cannot provide any assurance that FDA regulation will not be required in the future for any of our tests, whether through additional guidance or regulations issued by the FDA, new enforcement policies adopted by the FDA or new legislation adopted by Congress. It is possible that legislation will be enacted into law, regulations could be promulgated or guidance could be issued by the FDA which may result in increased regulatory burdens for us to continue to offer molecular diagnostic tests or to develop and introduce new tests. Moreover, if pre-market review is required by the FDA or if we decide to voluntarily pursue the FDA's pre-market review for any of our tests, there can be no assurance that our diagnostic tests will be cleared or approved on a timely basis, if at all, nor can there be assurance that labeling claims will be consistent with our current claims or adequate to support continued adoption of and reimbursement for our tests.  If pre-market review is required, our business could be negatively impacted as a result of commercial delay that may be caused by any new requirements.. We currently manufacture our Cologuard test predominantly in one facility and perform our Cologuard test in one laboratory facility. As demand for our Cologuard test grows, we may lack adequate facility space and capabilities to meet increased processing requirements. Moreover, if these or any future facilities or our equipment were damaged or destroyed, or if we experience a significant disruption in our operations for any reason, our ability to continue to operate our business could be materially harmed.. We currently perform our Cologuard test in a single laboratory facility in Madison, Wisconsin. We manufacture the Cologuard test in a single facility in Madison, Wisconsin. Our headquarters are also located in Madison, Wisconsin.. As we expand the commercialization of Cologuard and increase the number of tests processed by our laboratory facility, we believe it will be necessary to both expand our existing laboratory facility and to add one or more new manufacturing and laboratory facilities in order to increase our manufacturing processing capacity to meet anticipated demand. We are currently in the process of expanding the capacity at our existing laboratory facility to more than two and a half million tests per year. We expect to complete that expansion by mid - 2018. Also, during the fourth quarter of 2017, we purchased real property in Madison, Wisconsin and began construction of a new clinical laboratory facility.. 25. Table of Contents. The new laboratory facility is expected to increase our annual capacity by approximately two million tests per year. Construction of the new facility is expected to be completed near mid - 2019. We also expect to build an additional manufacturing facility on the recently-acquired real property, which is expected to commence production during 2020. Failure to complete, or timely complete, these expansion projects, may significantly delay our processing times and capabilities, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. In addition, our financial condition may be adversely affected if we are unable to complete these expansion projects on budget and otherwise on terms and conditions acceptable to us. Finally, our financial condition will be adversely affected if demand for our products and services does not materialize in line with our current expectations and if, as a result, we end up building excess capacity that does not yield a reasonable return on our investment.. If our present, or any future facilities, were to be damaged, destroyed or otherwise unable to operate, whether due to fire, floods, storms, tornadoes, other inclement weather events or natural disasters, employee malfeasance, terrorist acts, power outages, or otherwise, our business could be severely disrupted. If our present and/or future Madison, Wisconsin, manufacturing facility or laboratory is disrupted, we may not be able to produce or perform our Cologuard test or generate test reports as promptly as patients and healthcare providers require or expect, or possibly not at all. If we are unable to perform our Cologuard test or generate test reports within a timeframe that meets patient and healthcare provider expectations, our business, financial results and reputation could be materially harmed.. We currently maintain insurance against damage to our property and equipment and against business interruption, subject to deductibles and other limitations. If we have underestimated our insurance needs with respect to an interruption, or if an interruption is not subject to coverage under our insurance policies, we may not be able to cover our losses.. We rely upon certain single-source suppliers and loss or interruption of supply from single-source suppliers could have a disruptive effect on our business.. We purchase certain supplies from third-party suppliers and manufacturers. In some cases, due to the unique attributes of products that are incorporated into our Cologuard test, we maintain a single-source supplier relationship. These third parties are independent entities subject to their own unique operational and financial risks that are outside our control. These third parties may not perform their obligations in a timely and cost-effective manner and they may be unwilling to increase production capacity commensurate with demand for our Cologuard test or future products or services. Moreover, we may become dependent on other single-source suppliers as we expand and develop our product pipeline. The loss of a single-source supplier, the failure to perform by a single-source supplier, the deterioration of our relationship with a single-source supplier or any unilateral modification to the contractual terms under which we are supplied materials by a single-source supplier could have a disruptive effect on our business, and could adversely affect our results of operations.. Failure in our information technology, storage systems or our clinical laboratory equipment could significantly disrupt our operations and our research and development efforts, which could adversely impact our revenues, as well as our research, development and commercialization efforts.. Our ability to execute our business strategy depends, in part, on the continued and uninterrupted performance of our information technology (\"IT\") systems, which support our operations, including at our clinical laboratory, and our research and development efforts. We are substantially dependent on our IT systems to receive and process Cologuard test orders, securely store patient health records and deliver the results of our Cologuard tests. The integrity and protection of our own data, and that of our customers and employees, is critical to our business. The regulatory environment governing information, security and privacy laws is increasingly demanding and continues to evolve.  IT systems are vulnerable to damage from a variety of sources, including telecommunications or network failures, malicious human acts and natural disasters. Moreover, despite network security and back-up measures, some of our servers are potentially vulnerable to physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses and similar disruptive problems. Despite the precautionary measures we have taken to prevent unanticipated problems that could affect our IT systems, sustained or repeated system failures that interrupt our ability to generate and maintain data, and in particular to operate our clinical laboratory, could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. Any interruption in the operation of IT systems could have an adverse effect on our operations. Furthermore, any breach in our IT systems could lead to the unauthorized access, disclosure and use of non-public information, including protected health information, which is protected by HIPAA and other laws. Any such access, disclosure, or other loss of information could result in legal. 26. Table of Contents. claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, and damage to our reputation.. We rely on courier delivery services to transport Cologuard collection kits to patients and samples back to laboratory facilities for analysis. If these delivery services are disrupted or become prohibitively expensive, customer satisfaction and our business could be negatively impacted.. In most cases, we ship Cologuard collection kits to patients, and patients ship samples to our Madison, Wisconsin, laboratory facility for analysis, by air and ground express courier delivery service. Disruptions in delivery service, whether due to bad weather, natural disaster, terrorist acts or threats, or for other reasons, can adversely affect customer satisfaction, specimen quality and our ability to provide our services on a timely basis.  If the courier delivery services that transport Cologuard collection kits institute significant price increases, our profitability would be negatively affected and we may need to identify alternative delivery methods, if possible, modify our service model, or attempt to raise our pricing, which may not be possible with regard to Medicare claims or commercially practicable with regard to commercial claims.. Due to billing complexities in the diagnostic and laboratory service industry, we may not be able to collect payment for the Cologuard tests we perform.. Billing for diagnostic and laboratory services is a complex process. Laboratories bill many different payers including patients, private insurance companies, Medicare, Medicaid, and employer groups, all of which have different billing requirements.  We are continuing to work with third-party payers to cover and reimburse Cologuard tests.  If we are unsuccessful, we may not receive payment for Cologuard tests we perform for patients on a timely basis, if at all, and we may not be able to provide services for patients with certain healthcare plans. We may have to litigate to enforce coverage obligations under Medicare laws and laws that mandate coverage for certain colorectal cancer screening tests or to enforce contractual coverage obligations.  Such litigation may be costly, may divert management attention from other responsibilities, may cause payers, including those not directly involved in the litigation, to resist contracting with us, and may ultimately prove unsuccessful for a variety of reasons.  We may face lawsuits by government or commercial payers if they believe they have overpaid us for our Cologuard test services or as a result of other circumstances.  We may face write-offs of doubtful accounts, disputes with payers and patients, and long collection cycles. We may face patient dissatisfaction, complaints or lawsuits, including to the extent Cologuard tests are not fully covered by insurers and patients become responsible for all or part of the price of the test.  As a result, patient demand for Cologuard could be adversely affected.  To the extent patients express dissatisfaction with our billing practices to their physicians, those physicians may be less likely to prescribe Cologuard for other patients, and our business would be adversely affected.. Even if payers do agree to cover Cologuard, our billing and collections process may be complicated by the following and other factors, which may be beyond our control:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdisputes among payers as to which payer is responsible for payment;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdisparity in coverage among various payers or among various healthcare plans offered by a single payer;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpayer medical management requirements, including prior authorization requirements;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdiffering information and billing requirements among payers; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfailure by patients or physicians to provide complete and correct billing information.. Sometimes, when we have a contract with a commercial payer to cover Cologuard, we are not permitted to bill patients insured by that payer for amounts beyond deductibles, co - payments and co - insurance as prescribed in the coverage agreement between the payer and the patients. Therefore, when such contracted payers do not pay us our full, contracted rate for a Cologuard test, for example, for failure to satisfy prior - authorization or other payer medical management requirements, we may not be permitted to collect the balance from the patient and our business is adversely impacted.. The uncertainty of receiving payment for our Cologuard test and complex laboratory billing processes could negatively affect our business and our operating results.. 27. Table of Contents. We may be subject to substantial costs and liability, or be prevented from using technologies incorporated in our Cologuard test, as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patent or other intellectual property rights.. Third parties may assert infringement or other intellectual property claims against our licensors, our licensees, our suppliers, our strategic partners or us. We pursue a patent strategy that we believe provides us with a competitive advantage in the non-invasive early detection of colorectal cancer and pre-cancer and is designed to maximize our patent protection against third parties. We have filed patent applications that we believe cover the methods we have designed and use in our Cologuard test to detect colorectal cancer and pre-cancer. In order to protect or enforce our patent and other intellectual property rights, we may have to initiate actions against third parties. Any actions regarding patents could be costly and time-consuming and divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business. Additionally, such actions could result in challenges to the validity or applicability of our patents. Because the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office maintains patent applications in secrecy until a patent application publishes or the patent is issued, we have no way of knowing if others may have filed patent applications covering technologies used by us or our partners. Additionally, there may be third-party patents, patent applications and other intellectual property relevant to our technologies that may block or compete with our technologies. From time to time we have received correspondence from third parties alleging to hold intellectual property rights that could block our development or commercialization of products. While none of these inquiries to date have had any material effect on us, we may receive inquiries in the future that could have a material effect on our business. Even if third-party claims are without merit, defending a lawsuit may result in substantial expense to us and may divert the attention of management and key personnel. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that we would prevail in any such suits to the extent necessary to conduct our business according to our strategic plan or that the damages or other remedies, if any, awarded against us would not be substantial. Claims of intellectual property infringement may require that we, or our strategic partners, enter into royalty or license agreements with third parties that may only be available on unacceptable terms, if at all. These claims may also result in injunctions against the further development and commercial sale of services or products containing our technologies, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Also, patents and patent applications owned by us may become the subject of interference proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention, which could result in substantial cost to us as well as a possible adverse decision as to the priority of invention of the patent or patent application involved. An adverse decision in an interference proceeding may result in the loss of rights under a patent or patent application subject to such a proceeding.. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property effectively, we may be unable to prevent third parties from using our intellectual property, which would impair any competitive advantage we may otherwise have.. We rely on patent protection as well as a combination of trademark, copyright and trade secret protection and other contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary technologies and other intellectual property rights, all of which provide limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. If we fail to protect our intellectual property, third parties may be able to compete more effectively against us and we may incur substantial litigation costs in our attempts to recover or restrict use of our intellectual property, which may not be entirely successful, if at all. Additionally, certain of our patents began to expire in 2017.  This loss of patent protection may permit third parties to use certain intellectual property assets previously exclusively reserved for our use.. We cannot assure you that any of our currently pending or future patent applications will result in issued patents, and we cannot predict how long it will take for any such patents to be issued. Further, we cannot assure you that other parties will not challenge any patents issued to us or that courts or regulatory agencies will hold our patents to be valid or enforceable. We have been in the past, and may be in the future, the subject of opposition proceedings relating to our patents. We cannot guarantee you that we will be successful in defending challenges made against our patents and patent applications. Any successful third-party challenge to our patents could result in co-ownership of such patents with the third party or the unenforceability or invalidity of such patents. Furthermore, in the life sciences field, courts frequently render opinions that may affect the patentability of certain inventions or discoveries, including opinions that may affect the patentability of isolated DNA and/or methods for analyzing or comparing DNA. Such decisions may adversely impact our ability to obtain new patents and facilitate third-party challenges to our existing patents.. Even where we have valid patents, third parties may be able to successfully design their products and services around those patents, such that their products and services do not infringe our patents.  To the extent third parties are. 28. Table of Contents. able to develop or commercialize competing products and services that do not infringe our patents, our business will be adversely impacted.. Our business is subject to various complex laws and regulations. We could be subject to significant fines and penalties if we or our partners fail to comply with these laws and regulations.. As a provider of clinical diagnostic products and services, we and our partners are subject to extensive and frequently changing federal, state and local laws and regulations governing various aspects of our business. In particular, the clinical laboratory industry is subject to significant governmental certification and licensing regulations, as well as federal and state laws regarding:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ttest ordering and billing practices;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmarketing, sales and pricing practices;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\thealth information privacy and security, including the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act of 2009, or HITECH, and comparable state laws;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinsurance;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tanti-markup legislation; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tconsumer protection.. We are also required to comply with FDA regulations, including with respect to our labeling and promotion activities. In addition, advertising of our tests is subject to regulation by the Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, and advertising of laboratory services is regulated by certain state laws. Violation of any FDA requirement could result in enforcement actions, such as seizures, injunctions, civil penalties and criminal prosecutions, and violation of any FTC or state law requirement could result in injunctions and other associated remedies, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Most states also have similar regulatory and enforcement authority for devices. Additionally, most foreign countries have authorities comparable to the FDA and processes for obtaining marketing approvals. Obtaining and maintaining these approvals, and complying with all laws and regulations, may subject us to similar risks and delays as those we could experience under FDA, FTC and state regulation. We incur various costs in complying and overseeing compliance with these laws and regulations.. Healthcare policy has been a subject of extensive discussion in the executive and legislative branches of the federal and many state governments and healthcare laws and regulations are subject to change. Development of the existing commercialization strategy for our Cologuard test and planned development of products in our pipeline has been based on existing healthcare policies. We cannot predict what additional changes, if any, will be proposed or adopted or the effect that such proposals or adoption may have on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we or our partners, including independent sales representatives to the extent we engage them, fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could incur significant fines and penalties and our reputation and prospects could suffer.  Additionally, any such partners could be forced to cease offering our products and services in certain jurisdictions, which could materially disrupt our business.. Some of our activities may subject us to risks under federal and state laws prohibiting 'kickbacks' and false or fraudulent claims.. In addition to FDA marketing restrictions, several other types of state and federal healthcare fraud and abuse laws have been applied in recent years to restrict certain marketing practices in the healthcare product and service industry and to regulate billing practices and financial relationships with physicians, hospitals and other healthcare providers. These laws include a federal law commonly known as the Medicare/Medicaid anti-kickback law, and several similar state laws, which prohibit payments intended to induce physicians or others either to refer patients or to acquire or arrange for or recommend the acquisition of healthcare products or services. While the federal law applies only to referrals, products or services for which payment may be made by a federal healthcare program, state laws often apply regardless of whether federal funds may be involved. These laws constrain the sales, marketing and other promotional activities of manufacturers of medical devices and providers of laboratory services by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements, including sales programs, that may be used with hospitals, physicians, laboratories and other potential purchasers or prescribers of medical devices and laboratory services. Other federal and state laws generally prohibit individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare,. 29. Table of Contents. Medicaid, or other third-party payers that are false or fraudulent, or are for items or services that were not provided as claimed. Additionally, to avoid liability under federal false claims laws, we must carefully and accurately code claims for reimbursement, proactively monitor the accuracy and appropriateness of Medicare claims and payments received, diligently investigate any credible information indicating that we may have received an overpayment, and promptly return any overpayments. Medicare payments are subject to audit, including through the Comprehensive Error Rate Testing (CERT) program, and payments may be recouped by CMS if it is determined that they were improperly made. Currently, a significant percentage of our revenues are generated by payments from Medicare. The federal anti-kickback statute and certain false claims laws prescribe civil and criminal penalties (including fines) for noncompliance that can be substantial. While we continually strive to comply with these complex requirements, interpretations of the applicability of these laws to marketing and billing practices are constantly evolving and even an unsuccessful challenge could cause adverse publicity and be costly to respond to, and thus could harm our business and prospects. Our failure to comply with applicable laws could result in various adverse consequences that could have a material adverse effect upon our business, including the exclusion of our products and services from government programs and the imposition of civil or criminal sanctions.. Compliance with the HIPAA security, privacy and breach notification regulations may increase our costs.. The HIPAA privacy, security and breach notification regulations, including the expanded requirements under HITECH, establish comprehensive federal standards with respect to the uses and disclosures of protected health information (\"PHI\") by health plans, healthcare providers and healthcare clearinghouses, in addition to setting standards to protect the confidentiality, integrity and security of PHI. The regulations establish a complex regulatory framework on a variety of subjects, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe circumstances under which uses and disclosures of PHI are permitted or required without a specific authorization by the patient, including but not limited to treatment purposes, activities to obtain payments for our services, and our healthcare operations activities;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ta patient's rights to access, amend and receive an accounting of certain disclosures of PHI;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trequirements to notify individuals if there is a breach of their PHI;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe contents of notices of privacy practices for PHI;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadministrative, technical and physical safeguards required of entities that use or receive PHI; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe protection of computing systems maintaining electronic PHI.. We have implemented practices to meet the requirements of the HIPAA privacy, security and breach notification regulations, as required by law. We are required to comply with federal privacy, security and breach notification regulations as well as varying state privacy, security and breach notification laws and regulations, which may be more stringent than federal HIPAA requirements. In addition, for healthcare data transfers from other countries relating to citizens of those countries, we must comply with the laws of those countries. The federal privacy regulations restrict our ability to use or disclose patient identifiable data, without patient authorization, for purposes other than payment, treatment, healthcare operations and certain other specified disclosures such as public health and governmental oversight of the healthcare industry.. HIPAA provides for significant fines and other penalties for wrongful use or disclosure of PHI, including potential civil and criminal fines and penalties. Computer networks are always vulnerable to breach and unauthorized persons may in the future be able to exploit weaknesses in the security systems of our computer networks and gain access to PHI. Additionally, we share PHI with third-party contractors who are contractually obligated to safeguard and maintain the confidentiality of PHI. Unauthorized persons may be able to gain access to PHI stored in such third-party contractors' computer networks. Any wrongful use or disclosure of PHI by us or our third-party contractors, including disclosure due to data theft or unauthorized access to our or our third-party contractors' computer networks, could subject us to fines or penalties that could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Although the HIPAA statute and regulations do not expressly provide for a private right of damages, we could also incur damages under state laws to private parties for the wrongful use or disclosure of confidential health information or other private personal information.. The success of our business is substantially dependent upon the efforts of our senior management team.. Our success depends largely on the skills, experience and performance of key members of our senior management team including Kevin Conroy, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Maneesh Arora, our Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Dr. Graham Lidgard, our Senior Vice President and Chief Science Officer, and. 30. Table of Contents. Jeff Elliott, our Chief Financial Officer. These executives are critical to directing and managing our growth and development in the future. Our success is substantially dependent upon our senior management's ability to lead our company, implement successful corporate strategies and initiatives, develop key relationships, including relationships with collaborators and business partners, and successfully commercialize products and services. While our management team has experience in developing and securing FDA approvals for diagnostic products, we have considerably less experience in commercializing products or services. The efforts of our management team will be critical to us as we develop our technologies and seek to commercialize our Cologuard test and other products and services.. Our success depends on our ability to retain our managerial personnel and to attract additional personnel.. Our success depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain managerial personnel. If we were to lose any of our senior management team, we may experience difficulties in competing effectively, developing our technologies and implementing our business strategies. Competition for desirable personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain the necessary staff. The failure to maintain management or to attract sales and marketing personnel as we commercialize our Cologuard test could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our management has broad discretion over the use of our available cash and marketable securities and might not spend available cash and marketable securities in ways that increase the value of your investment.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $424.7 million in combined cash and marketable securities. Our management currently expects to deploy these resources primarily to expand our Cologuard operation and commercialization activities, to fund our product development efforts and for general corporate and working capital purposes. However, our management has broad discretion to pursue other objectives and we may use these funds for other purposes. Our management might not effectively deploy our cash and marketable securities which could have an adverse effect on our business.. Our business and reputation will suffer if we are unable to establish and comply with, stringent quality standards to assure that the highest level of quality is observed in the performance our Cologuard test.. Inherent risks are involved in providing and marketing cancer diagnostic tests, such as our Cologuard test, and related services. Patients and healthcare providers rely on us to provide accurate clinical and diagnostic information that may be used to make critical healthcare decisions.  As such, users of our Cologuard test may have a greater sensitivity to errors than users of some other types of products and services.. We must maintain top service standards and FDA-mandated and other quality controls. Performance defects, incomplete or improper process controls, excessively slow turnaround times, unanticipated uses of Cologuard or mishandling of stool samples or Cologuard test results (whether by us, patients, healthcare providers, courier delivery services or others) can lead to adverse outcomes for patients and interruptions to our services.  These events could lead to voluntary or legally mandated safety alerts relating to Cologuard or our laboratory facility and could result in the removal of Cologuard from the market or the suspension of our laboratory's operations.  Insufficient quality controls and any resulting negative outcomes, could result in significant costs and litigation, as well as negative publicity that could reduce demand for Cologuard and payers' willingness to cover our Cologuard test.  Even if we maintain adequate controls and procedures, damaging and costly errors may occur.. Product and professional liability suits against us could result in expensive and time-consuming litigation, payment of substantial damages and increases in our insurance rates.. The sale and use of our Cologuard test could lead to product or professional liability claims based on, among other things, allegations that it contained a design or manufacturing defect or our laboratory was negligent in processing test results, which resulted in the failure to detect the condition for which it was designed or an unnecessary procedure which caused harm. A product or professional liability claim could result in substantial damages, be costly and time consuming to defend, and cause material harm to our business, reputation or financial condition. We cannot assure you that our liability insurance would protect our assets from the financial impact of defending a product or professional liability claim. Any claim brought against us, with or without merit, could increase our liability insurance rates or prevent us from securing insurance coverage in the future.. 31. Table of Contents. We expect to rely on third parties to conduct any future studies of our technologies that may be required by the FDA or other US or foreign regulatory bodies, and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily.. We do not have the ability to independently conduct the clinical or other studies that will be required to obtain FDA or other regulatory approvals for future products we may develop or the approval of foreign regulatory bodies that may be required for such future products or for our Cologuard test to the extent we seek to market products internationally. Accordingly, we expect to rely on third parties such as contract research organizations, medical institutions and clinical investigators to conduct any such studies, including the post-approval study required by the FDA for our Cologuard test. Our reliance on these third parties for clinical development activities will reduce our control over these activities. These third-party contractors may not complete activities on schedule or conduct studies in accordance with regulatory requirements or our study design. Our reliance on third parties that we do not control will not relieve us of our requirement to prepare, and ensure our compliance with, various procedures required under good clinical practices, even though third-party contract research organizations may prepare and comply with their own, comparable procedures. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or regulatory obligations or meet expected deadlines, if the third parties need to be replaced or if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our studies may be extended, delayed, suspended or terminated, and we may not be able to obtain a required regulatory approval.. Our inability to manage growth could harm our business.. In connection with the commercialization of our Cologuard test, we have added, and expect to continue to add, additional personnel in the areas of sales and marketing, laboratory operations, billing and collections, quality assurance and compliance. Our number of full time employees has increased from 677, as of December 31, 2015, to 736, as of December 31, 2016, and to 1,268, as of December 31, 2017. Further, as we build our commercialization efforts and expand research and development activities for new products and services, the scope and complexity of our operations is increasing significantly. As a result of our growth, our operating expenses and capital requirements have also increased, and we expect that they will continue to increase, significantly. Our ability to manage our growth effectively requires us to expend funds to improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures. As we move forward in commercializing our Cologuard test, we will also need to effectively manage our growing manufacturing, laboratory operations and sales and marketing needs. We are presently seeking to add facilities to support anticipated demand for our Cologuard test and anticipated associated growth in our personnel. We are expanding the capacity of our existing clinical laboratory, and have started construction of a second clinical laboratory, both in Madison, Wisconsin. We are also planning to add new manufacturing, warehouse and office facilities. We face various risks in managing these expansion efforts, including financing, construction delays, budget management, quality control, design efficiency, and transition execution. If we are unable to manage our anticipated growth effectively, our business could be harmed.. International operations could subject us to risks and expenses that could adversely impact the business and results of operations.. To date, we have not undertaken substantial commercial activities outside the United States.  We have evaluated the commercialization of Cologuard in several European, Middle Eastern and Asian countries. After undertaking preliminary preparatory activities, we determined to cease those efforts and we do not have present plans to expand Cologuard internationally.  If we seek to expand Cologuard internationally, or launch other products or services internationally, in the future, those efforts would expose us to risks from the failure to comply with foreign laws and regulations that differ from those under which we operate in the U.S., as well as U.S. rules and regulations that govern foreign activities such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. In addition, we could be adversely affected by other risks associated with operating in foreign countries. Economic uncertainty in some of the geographic regions in which we might operate, including developing regions, could result in the disruption of commerce and negatively impact cash flows from our operations in those areas. Also, if we choose to pursue international expansion efforts, it may be necessary or desirable to contract with third parties, such as laboratories, distributors or others. We may not be able to enter into such agreements on commercially acceptable terms, or at all, such arrangements may not perform to our expectations, we may be exposed to various risks as a result of the activities of our partners, and we may be exposed to contractual or other liabilities to our partners if the arrangements prove non - beneficial for them or if we seek to terminate them early.. 32. Table of Contents. These and other factors may have a material adverse effect on any international operations we may seek to undertake and, consequently, on our financial condition and results of operations.. Delaware law, our charter documents and rights agreement and certain provision of our convertible notes could impede or discourage a takeover or change of control that stockholders may consider favorable.. As a Delaware corporation, we are subject to certain anti-takeover provisions. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15 percent or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. Accordingly, our board of directors could rely on Delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of our company. In addition, certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include the following:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tOur board of directors is divided into three classes serving staggered three-year terms..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tOnly our board of directors can fill vacancies on the board..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tOur stockholders may not act by written consent..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThere are various limitations on persons authorized to call a special meeting of stockholders and advance notice requirements for stockholders to make nominations of candidates for election as directors or to bring matters before an annual meeting of stockholders..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tOur board of directors may issue, without stockholder approval, shares of undesignated preferred stock.. These types of provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders.. In addition, we have adopted a rights agreement that provides that in the event of (i) an acquisition of 15 percent or more of our outstanding common stock or (ii) an announcement of an intention to make a tender offer or exchange offer for 15 percent or more of our outstanding common stock, our stockholders, other than the potential acquiror, shall be granted rights enabling them to purchase additional shares of our common stock at a substantial discount to the then prevailing market price. The rights agreement could significantly dilute such acquiror's ownership position in our shares, thereby making a takeover prohibitively expensive and encouraging such acquiror to negotiate with our board of directors. Therefore, the rights agreement could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us without the approval of our board of directors.. Certain provisions of the $690 million of convertible notes we issued in January 2018 could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us.  Upon the occurrence of certain transactions constituting a \"fundamental change,\" as such term is defined in the indenture for the notes, holders of the convertible notes will have the right, at their option, to require us to repurchase all of their convertible notes or any portion of the principal amount of such convertible notes in integral multiples of $1,000.  We may also be required to increase the conversion rate in the event of a \"make-whole fundamental change,\" as such term is defined in the indenture for the notes.  In addition, the indenture and the convertible notes will prohibit us from engaging in certain mergers or acquisitions unless, among other things, the surviving entity assumes our obligations under the convertible notes and the indenture.  These and other provisions in the indenture could deter or prevent a third party from acquiring us.. Our bylaws provide, subject to certain exceptions, that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the sole and exclusive forum for certain stockholder litigation matters, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, employees or stockholders.. Our bylaws provide, subject to limited exceptions, that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will, to the fullest extent permitted by law, be the sole and exclusive forum for any claims, including any derivative actions or proceedings brought on our behalf, (1) that are based upon a violation of a duty by a current or former director or officer or stockholder in such capacity or (2) that may be brought in the Court of Chancery pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our common stock shall be deemed to have notice of and to have consented to the provisions of our bylaws described above. This choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or any of our directors, officers, other employees or stockholders which may discourage lawsuits with respect to such claims. Alternatively, if a court were to find the choice of forum provision that is contained in our bylaws to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other. 33. Table of Contents. jurisdictions, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may engage in acquisitions that could disrupt our business, cause dilution to our stockholders and reduce our financial resources.. We have recently undertaken certain acquisition activities. In 2017, we acquired the stock of Sampleminded, Inc. and we acquired certain assets from Armune Bioscience, Inc. We could incur losses resulting from yet undiscovered liabilities of these acquired business that are not covered by any indemnification or other contractual remedies. In addition, we may not be able to successfully integrate these businesses into our existing operations in an effective, timely and non - disruptive manner.. In the future, we may enter into transactions to acquire other businesses, products, services or technologies. Because we have only made a limited number of small acquisitions to date, our ability to do so successfully is unproven. If we do identify suitable candidates, we may not be able to make such acquisitions on favorable terms or at all. Any acquisitions we make may not strengthen our competitive position, and these transactions may be viewed negatively by investors, healthcare providers, patients and others. We may decide to incur debt in connection with an acquisition or issue our common stock or other securities to the stockholders of the acquired company, which would reduce the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders. We could incur losses resulting from undiscovered liabilities of the acquired business that are not covered by any indemnification we may obtain from the seller. In addition, we may not be able to successfully integrate the acquired personnel, technologies and operations into our existing business in an effective, timely and non-disruptive manner. Acquisitions may also divert management from day-to-day responsibilities, increase our expenses and reduce our cash available for operations and other uses. We cannot predict the number, timing or size of future acquisitions or the effect that any such transactions might have on our operating results.. Our ability to use our net operating losses to offset future taxable income may be subject to certain limitations.. As of December 31, 2017, we had federal and state net operating loss carryforwards (\"NOLs\") of approximately $867.8 million and $357.0 million, respectively. In general, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"), a corporation that undergoes an \"ownership change\" is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change NOLs to offset future taxable income. An ownership change is generally defined as a greater than 50 percent change in equity ownership by value over a specified time period (generally three years). Given the Code's broad definition, an ownership change could be the unintended consequence of otherwise normal market trading in our stock that is outside our control. An ownership change under Section 382 of the Code could also be triggered by certain strategic transactions. Additionally, tax law limitations may result in our NOLs expiring before we have the ability to use them. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (H.R. 1) was signed into law on December 22, 2017 (the \"Act\"). The Act contains significant changes to corporate taxation and modifies several existing laws around federal NOLs, including a limitation on the deduction for NOLs to 80 percent of current year taxable income as well as an indefinite carryover period for federal NOLs. Both provisions are applicable for losses arising in tax years beginning after December 31, 2017. For these reasons, even if we attain profitability our ability to utilize our NOLs may be limited, potentially significantly so.. Our stock price has fluctuated widely and is likely to continue to be volatile.. The market price for our common stock varied between a high of $63.60 and a low of $13.05 in the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2017.  Our stock price is likely to continue to be volatile and subject to significant price and volume fluctuations in response to market and other factors, including those listed in this \"Item 1A. Risk Factors\" section and other, unknown factors.  Our stock price also may be affected by:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcomments by securities analysts regarding our business or prospects;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour issuance of common stock or other securities;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour inability to accurately forecast future performance;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour inability to meet analysts' expectations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour entering into merger, acquisition or other similar transactions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tgeneral fluctuations in the stock market or in the stock prices of companies in the life sciences or healthcare diagnostics industries; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tgeneral conditions and publicity regarding the life sciences or healthcare diagnostics industries.. 34. Table of Contents. Consequently, the current market price of our common stock may not be indicative of future market prices, and we may be unable to sustain or increase the value of an investment in our common stock. Further, sharp drops in the market price of our common stock, such as we experienced at certain times in our history, may expose us to securities class-action litigation. Such litigation could result in substantial expenses and diversion of management's attention and corporate resources, which would seriously harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We have never paid cash dividends and do not intend to do so.. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock. We currently plan to retain any earnings to finance the growth of our business rather than to pay cash dividends. Payments of any cash dividends in the future will depend on our financial condition, results of operations and capital requirements, as well as other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors.. Our increased indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to meet our payment obligations under such indebtedness.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $4.7 million of indebtedness outstanding.  Pursuant to the convertible note offering we completed in January 2018 we incurred an additional $690.0 million of indebtedness.  This level of debt could have significant consequences on our future operations, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincreasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmaking it more difficult for us to meet our payment and other obligations under the convertible notes;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmaking it more difficult to obtain any necessary future financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other purposes;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trequiring the dedication of a substantial portion of any cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of cash flow available for other purposes, including capital expenditures;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tplacing us at a possible competitive disadvantage with competitors that are less leveraged than us or have better access to capital than we have; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets in which we compete.. Any of the above-listed factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to meet our payment obligations under the convertible notes.. Our ability to meet our payment and other obligations under the convertible notes depends on our ability to generate significant cash flow in the future.  This, to some extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors as well as other factors that are beyond our control.  We cannot assure you that our business will generate cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us, in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our payment obligations under the convertible notes and to fund other liquidity needs.  If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations, we may need to refinance or restructure our debt, including the convertible notes, sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital.  If we are unable to implement one or more of these alternatives, we may not be able to meet our payment obligations under the convertible notes, and this default could cause us to be in default on any other currently existing or future outstanding indebtedness. Servicing our debt will require a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow from our business to pay amounts due under our indebtedness, including the notes.. Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, to pay interest on or to refinance our indebtedness, including the $690.0 million aggregate principal amount of 1.0% convertible senior notes due 2025, which were executed in January 2018, depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control.  Our business may not continue to generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to service our debt, including the convertible notes, and make necessary capital expenditures.  If we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive.  Our ability to refinance our. 35. Table of Contents. indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time.  We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our debt obligations."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
