[1] "Item 1A  -  Risk Factors. We operate in a very competitive industry, which could compress our margins and impair our ability to attract and retain clients. Our failure to effectively differentiate our products and services from those of our competitors could magnify the impact of the competitive environment.. We operate in a highly competitive environment and an industry subject to significant market pressures brought about by customer demands, legislative and regulatory developments and other market factors. We must remain competitive to attract new clients and retain and cross-sell additional products and services to our existing clients. Strong competition in the PBM marketplace has generated greater client demand for lower pricing, increased revenue sharing and enhanced product and service offerings. These competitive factors have historically applied pressure on our operating margins and caused many PBMs, including us, to reduce the prices charged for products and services while sharing with clients a greater portion of the formulary fees and related rebates received from pharmaceutical manufacturers. We cannot assume positive trends will offset these pressures in the future. Our inability to maintain positive trends, or failure to identify and implement new ways to mitigate pricing pressures, could negatively impact our ability to attract or retain clients or sell additional services, which could negatively impact our margins and have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. In addition, our clients are well informed and organized and can easily move between our competitors and us as our client contracts generally have terms of three years. Many clients work through knowledgeable consultants and our larger clients typically seek competing bids from our competitors prior to contract expiration. These factors, together with the impact of competitive pressures, could make it difficult for us to attract new clients, retain existing clients and cross-sell additional services, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.. To succeed in the highly competitive PBM marketplace, it is imperative we maintain a strong reputation as well as differentiate our business offerings by innovating and delivering products and services that demonstrate enhanced value to our clients, particularly in response to market changes from public policy. The negative reputational impact of a significant event, including a failure to execute on client contracts or to successfully operate the complex structure of our business or otherwise innovate and deliver products and services that demonstrate greater value to our clients could, therefore, affect our ability to grow and retain profitable clients, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. The delivery of healthcare-related products and services is an evolving and rapidly changing industry. Our failure to anticipate or appropriately adapt to changes or trends within the industry could have a negative impact on our ability to compete and adversely affect our business and results of operations.. We have designed our business model to compete within the current industry structure. Our client contracts generally have terms of three years and our pharmaceutical manufacturers, retail contracts and medical benefit provider contracts are typically non-exclusive and terminable on relatively short notice by either party. Any significant shifts in the structure of the PBM industry or the healthcare products and services industry in general could alter the industry dynamics and adversely affect our ability to attract or retain clients. Such industry shifts could result from, among other things:. • a large intra- or inter-industry merger or industry consolidation;. 18. Table of Contents. • strategic alliances;. • a new entrant (including foreign entities or governments);. • a new or alternative business model;. • changes in the United States Postal Service or the consolidation of shipping carriers;. • an increased ability of consultants to influence the market;. • increased drug acquisition cost or unexpected changes to drug pricing trend;. • changes in the generic drug market or the failure of new generic drugs to come to market;. • rapid technological shifts;. • the impact or unintended consequences of the Health Reform Laws, or significant changes or material amendment thereof;. • a general decrease in drug utilization; or. • a general increase in utilization under risk-based contracts in the medical benefit management market.. Our failure to anticipate or appropriately adapt to changes in the industry could negatively impact our competitive position and adversely affect our business and results of operations.. In addition, the healthcare industry has undergone periods of substantial consolidation and may continue to consolidate in the future. If one or more of our clients is acquired, and the acquiring entity is not a client, then we may be unable to retain all or a portion of the acquired business. If such consolidation activity, individually or in the aggregate, is material, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Changes in our regulatory environment or failure to comply with applicable laws could require us to make significant changes to our business operations, spend significant resources or result in the imposition of fines or penalties.. Numerous state and federal laws, rules and regulations affect our business and operations and include, among other things, the following:. • healthcare fraud and abuse laws and regulations, which prohibit certain types of payments and referrals as well as false claims made in connection with health benefit programs;. • ERISA and related regulations, which regulate many aspects of healthcare plan arrangements;. • state legislation regulating PBMs or imposing fiduciary status on PBMs or medical benefit managers;. • consumer protection and unfair trade practice laws and regulations;. • network pharmacy access laws, including \"any willing provider\" legislation, which affect aspects of our pharmacy network contracts;. • wholesale distributor laws;. • legislation imposing benefit plan design restrictions and requirements, which limit how our clients can design their drug benefit plans;. • various licensure laws, such as managed care, utilization review and third-party administrator licensure laws;. • drug pricing legislation, including \"most favored nation\" pricing;. • pharmacy laws and regulations, including laws and regulations regarding delivery channels;. • FDA laws and regulations, including laws and regulations regarding biosimilars;. • laws and regulations regarding formularies and drug lists, including without limitation laws and regulations regarding the development, administration and review of formularies;. • state insurance regulations applicable to our insurance subsidiaries;. • information privacy and security laws and regulations, including those under the HIPAA omnibus rule;. • Medicare prescription drug program participation requirements including coverage standards and beneficiary protections;. • other Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement regulations, including subrogation;. 19. Table of Contents. • the Health Reform Laws, including regulations applicable to clients operating qualified health plans through the state and federal marketplace;. • federal laws related to our Department of Defense contract;. • federal antitrust laws;. • the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act;. • environmental and health and safety laws and regulations, including without limitation laws and regulations regarding hazardous materials and laws and regulations enacted by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration;. • international laws; and. • labor laws and regulations with respect to our employees and contractors.. See \"Part I  -  Item 1  -  Business  -  Government Regulation and Compliance\" for more detailed description of certain items listed above.. We believe we operate our business in substantial compliance with all existing material legal requirements. However, significant uncertainties exist regarding the application of many of these laws, rules and regulations to our business. From time to time, state and federal law enforcement agencies and regulatory agencies have initiated investigations or litigation involving certain aspects of our business or our competitors' businesses and, consequently, we cannot provide any assurance one or more of these agencies will not interpret or apply these legal requirements in a manner adverse to our business, or, if there is an enforcement action brought against us, our interpretation would prevail. In addition, there are numerous proposed new laws, rules and regulations as well as proposed revisions to existing laws, rules and regulations at the federal and state levels, including significant changes to the Health Reform Laws, many of which could materially affect aspects of our business or adversely affect our results of operations. We are unable to predict whether additional federal or state legislation or regulatory initiatives relating to the matters described above or to our business or the healthcare industry in general will be enacted in the future or what effect, if any, such legislation or regulations may have on us. Due to these uncertainties, we may be required to spend significant resources in connection with any such investigation or litigation or to comply with new or existing laws and regulations.. In addition, the laws, rules and regulations to which we are subject, including those related to our financial statements and financial disclosure, are complex and require significant resources to remain compliant. Any substantial non-compliance with such legal and regulatory requirements could result in significant fines and penalties or a restatement of our financial statements, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Various governmental agencies have conducted investigations and audits into certain PBM business practices. Many of these investigations and audits have resulted in other PBMs agreeing to civil penalties, including the payment of money and corporate integrity agreements. We cannot predict what effect, if any, such governmental investigations and audits may ultimately have on us or on the PBM industry in general (see \"Part I  -  Item 3  -  Legal Proceedings\"). However, we may experience government scrutiny and audit activity which may result in the payment or offset of prior reimbursement from the government.. From time to time, legislation is considered that would purport to declare a PBM a fiduciary with respect to its clients. While the validity of such laws is questionable and we do not believe any such laws are currently in effect, we cannot predict what effect, if any, such statutes, if enacted, may have on our business and financial results.. From time to time, certain legislative and/or regulatory proposals are made which seek to manage the healthcare industry, including managing prescription drug cost, regulating drug distribution and managing health records. Such proposals include, but are not limited to, \"single-payer\" government funded healthcare, changes in reimbursement rates, restrictions on access or therapeutic substitution, limits on more efficient delivery channels, taxes on goods and services, price controls on prescription drugs, incentivizing the use of electronic health records, regulating the use of maximum allowable cost pricing and other significant healthcare reform proposals. In addition, changes to government policies not specifically targeted to the healthcare industry, such as a change in tax laws and the corporate tax rate or government spending cuts, could have significant impacts on the PBM or medical benefit management marketplace. We are unable to predict whether any such policies or proposals will be enacted, or the specific terms thereof. Certain of these policies or proposals could, if enacted, adversely impact our business and results of operations.. 20. Table of Contents. Our ability to conduct operations depends on the security and stability of our technology infrastructure as well as the effectiveness of, and our ability to execute, business continuity plans across our operations. A failure in the security of our technology infrastructure or a significant disruption in service within our operations could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations.. We maintain, and are dependent on, a technology infrastructure platform essential for many aspects of our business operations. We have many different information systems and it is imperative we securely store and transmit confidential data, including personal health information, while maintaining the integrity of our confidential information. Any failure to protect against a security breach or a disruption in service could negatively impact our reputation and materially adversely impact our business operations and results of operations. Our technology infrastructure platform requires significant resources to maintain and enhance systems to keep pace with rapid technological change as well as evolving industry and regulatory standards. Emerging and advanced security threats, including coordinated attacks, require additional layers of security which may disrupt or impact efficiency of operations. From time to time, we may obtain significant portions of our systems-related or other services or facilities from independent third parties, which may make our operations vulnerable to such third parties' failure to adequately perform or protect against a security breach or service disruption. In the event our vendors or we experience:. • a malfunction in business processes. • security breaches (including cyber attacks). • failure to maintain effective and up-to-date information systems or. • otherwise experience unauthorized or non-compliant actions by any individual. we could incur disruptions to our business operations or negative impacts to patient safety, customer and member disputes, damage to our reputation, exposures to risk of loss, litigation or regulatory violations, increased administrative expenses or other adverse consequences.. We operate dispensing pharmacies, call centers, data centers and corporate facilities that depend on the security and stability of our technology infrastructure. Our technology infrastructure could be disrupted by any number of events including a general failure of the technology, security breach, malfunction of business process or a disaster or other catastrophic event. Such disruptions could, temporarily or indefinitely, significantly reduce, or partially or totally eliminate our ability to process and dispense prescriptions and provide products and services to our clients and members. Any such service disruption at these facilities or to this infrastructure or our failure to implement adequate business continuity and disaster recovery strategies could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. A substantial portion of our business is concentrated in certain significant client contracts. The termination or renegotiation of a significant client contract or our failure to execute on or other issues arising under, such contracts or conditions or trends impacting certain of our key clients could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. As described in greater detail in the description of our business in Item 1 above (see \"Part I  -  Item 1  -  Business  -  Clients\"), we have contracts with Anthem, Inc. (\"Anthem\") and the United States Department of Defense (\"DoD\") which represented 19% and 12%, respectively, of consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017 and 17% and 12%, respectively, of consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2016.. Our contract with Anthem expires at the end of 2019 with a one year transition period through 2020. Based on an announcement by Anthem on October 18, 2017, Anthem will not renew its contract with us. The timing and extent of our elimination of the direct and indirect costs of servicing Anthem will depend on a number of factors, including the extent to which we provide transition services after the current contract expires. We have launched a multi-year, enterprise-wide initiative intended, in part, to mitigate the impact of the expiration of the Anthem contract and to transform our organization by the end of 2021. Our inability to reduce our costs and otherwise mitigate the impact of the expiration of the Anthem contract could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows and results of operations. A failure or significant delay in the transformation process could have a material adverse effect on our client service or our business and results of operations. Further, there can be no assurance the transformation will result in the realization of the expected benefits of cost savings, innovation and operational efficiencies, or that any realized benefits will be achieved within the anticipated time frame. For a further description of our enterprise-wide value initiative, see \"Part II  -  Item 7  -  Executive Summary and Trend Factors Affecting the Business\" and \"Part II  -  Item 8  -  Note 12 - Enterprise value initiative.\". If one or more of our large clients, including clients of our newly acquired eviCore business, either terminates or does not renew a contract for any reason or if the provisions of a contract with a large client are modified, renewed or otherwise changed with terms less favorable to us and if we are not able to replace lost business or revenue by generating new business that is comparably profitable to us or by executing other corporate strategies, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected and we could experience a negative reaction in the investment community resulting in stock price declines or other adverse effects.. 21. Table of Contents. In addition, if certain of our key clients are negatively impacted by business conditions or other economic trends, or if such clients are acquired, consolidated or otherwise fail to successfully maintain or grow their business, our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted.. If significant changes occur within the pharmacy provider marketplace, or if other issues arise with respect to our pharmacy networks, including the loss of or adverse change in our relationship with one or more key pharmacy providers, our business and financial results could be impaired.. More than 68,000 retail pharmacies, which represent over 98% of all United States retail pharmacies, participated in one or more of our networks at December 31, 2017. The ten largest retail pharmacy chains represent approximately 67% of the total number of stores in our largest network. In certain geographic areas of the United States, our networks may be comprised of higher concentrations of one or more large pharmacy chains. Contracts with retail pharmacies are generally non-exclusive and are terminable on relatively short notice by either party. If one or more of the larger pharmacy chains terminates its relationship with us, or is able to renegotiate terms substantially less favorable to us, our members' access to retail pharmacies and/or our business could be materially adversely affected. In addition, the entry of one or more large pharmacy chains into the PBM business in addition to the current pharmacy chain competitors, the consolidation of existing pharmacy chains or increased leverage or market share by the largest pharmacy providers could increase the likelihood of negative changes in our relationship with such pharmacies. Changes in the overall composition of our pharmacy networks, or reduced pharmacy access under our networks, could have a negative impact on our claims volume and/or our competitiveness in the marketplace, which could cause us to fall short of certain guarantees in our contracts with clients or otherwise impair our business or results of operations.. A significant disruption in service within our operations or among our key suppliers or other third parties could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Our business is dependent on a number of different operations, products and processes, many of which involve third parties. A disruption in our business operations could result from, among other things: contamination of drugs or a failure to maintain appropriate shipment and storage conditions (such as temperature); an error in mail order processing; the unavailability of services or products (including drugs) provided by suppliers, pharmaceutical manufacturers, vendors or shipping carriers; labor disruptions; or unanticipated disruptions at our mail order facilities, call centers, data centers or corporate facilities. Such disruptions or our failure to implement adequate business continuity and disaster recovery strategies could, temporarily or indefinitely, significantly reduce or, partially or totally, eliminate our ability to process and dispense prescriptions and provide products and services to our clients and members, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Regulatory changes relating to Medicare Part D, our failure to comply with CMS regulatory requirements, our failure to comply with CMS contractual requirements applicable to us as a Medicare Part D sponsor or our failure to otherwise execute on our strategies related to Medicare Part D, could adversely impact our business and our results of operations.. Certain of our subsidiaries have been approved to function as a Medicare Part D sponsor for the purpose of making Medicare Part D EGWPs available for eligible clients, and certain of our subsidiaries have been approved by CMS to participate in Medicare Part D as national Medicare Part D sponsors that provide direct services to Medicare Part D eligible members. Accordingly, certain subsidiaries are required to comply with federal Medicare Part D laws and regulations and are also required to be licensed as insurers or may otherwise be subject to aspects of state laws regulating the business of insurance. The administration of Medicare Part D is complex and any failure to effectively execute the provisions of Medicare Part D may have an adverse effect on our business and our results of operations.. We also provide other products and services in support of our clients' Medicare Part D plans or federal Retiree Drug Subsidy plans. We have made, and may be required to make further, substantial investments in the personnel and technology necessary to administer our Medicare Part D strategy and operations. There are many uncertainties about the financial and regulatory risks of participating in Medicare Part D, and we can give no assurance these risks will not materially adversely impact our business and results of operations. The receipt of federal funds made available through Medicare Part D by our affiliates, our clients or us is subject to compliance with, among others, the Medicare regulations and established laws and regulations governing the federal government's payment for healthcare goods and services, including the anti-kickback laws and the federal False Claims Act. If we do not comply with material contractual or regulatory obligations, including, for example, during CMS audits or client audits in cases where we provide PBM services to client Medicare Part D sponsors, recoupment, monetary penalties and/or applicable sanctions, including suspension of enrollment and marketing or debarment from participation in Medicare programs, could be imposed. Further, the adoption or promulgation of new or more complex regulatory requirements or changes in the interpretation of existing regulatory requirements, in each case, associated with Medicare may require us to incur significant compliance-related costs which could adversely impact our business and our results of operations.. 22. Table of Contents. In addition, due to the availability of Medicare Part D, some of our employer clients may stop providing pharmacy benefit coverage to retirees, instead allowing retirees to choose their own Medicare Part D plans, which could cause a reduction in utilization for our services. Extensive competition among Medicare Part D plans could also result in the loss of Medicare members by our managed care customers, which would cause a decline in our membership base. Further, certain of our Medicare Part D product offerings require premium payment from members for the ongoing benefit, as well as amounts due from CMS, and as a result of demographics and the potential magnitude and timing of settlement for amounts due from CMS, these receivables are subject to billing and realization risk in excess of what is experienced in the core PBM business.. We have historically engaged in strategic transactions, including the acquisition of other companies or businesses, and may engage in similar transactions in the future. Our failure to effectively execute on such transactions or to integrate any acquired businesses could adversely impact our business and results of operations. The acquisition and integration of any such business typically generates significant transaction costs, requires significant resources and management attention and might not generate the anticipated benefits.. We have historically engaged in strategic transactions, including the acquisition of other companies and businesses. In 2017, we engaged in various strategic transactions, including the acquisitions of myMatrixx and eviCore. Acquisitions such as eviCore typically involve the integration of core business operations and technology infrastructure platforms that require significant resources and management attention and, among other things, risk client service disruption. Strategic transactions, including the pursuit of such transactions, often require us to incur significant up-front costs. These costs are typically non-recurring expenses related to the assessment, due diligence, negotiation and execution of the transaction. We may also incur additional costs to retain key employees as well as transaction fees and costs related to executing our integration plans. A failure or significant delay in the integration process could have a material adverse effect on our client service or our business and results of operations. In addition, such transactions may yield higher operating costs, greater customer attrition or more significant business disruption than anticipated. Further, even if the integration is successful, there can be no assurance a transaction will result in the realization of the expected benefits of synergies, cost savings, innovation and operational efficiencies, or that any realized benefits will be achieved within the anticipated time frame or an otherwise reasonable period of time. For a further description of our current year strategic transactions, see \"Part II  -  Item 8  -  Note 3 - Acquisitions and divestiture.\". Our business operations involve the receipt, use, storage and transmission of a substantial amount of confidential personal health and other personally identifiable information; as well as proprietary information relating to our business, employees, clients, vendors, and other third parties, which subjects us to substantial regulation and the risk of cyber-attacks or other privacy or data security incidents that could result in data security breaches. Any failure to maintain the security of the information relating to our business or to individuals or other third parties, whether as a result of cybersecurity attacks on our information systems or otherwise, could: (i) disrupt our operations, (ii) result in our violation of our client contracts, litigation, criminal penalties, civil sanctions, or other legal actions against us, and (iii) cause us to incur substantial additional costs, damage our reputation, and materially adversely affect our business and operating results.. Most of our activities involve the receipt, use, storage or transmission of a substantial amount of individuals' protected health information and personally identifiable information. We also use aggregated and anonymized data for research and analysis purposes, and in some cases, provide access to such data to pharmaceutical manufacturers and third-party data aggregators and analysts. There is substantial regulation at the federal and state levels addressing the use, disclosure and security of patient identifiable health information. HIPAA, federal and state data privacy statutes impose extensive requirements governing the transmission, use and disclosure of health information by all participants in the health care industry, including physicians, hospitals, insurers and other payors. Certain of our businesses are also subject to the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard, which is designed to protect credit card account data as mandated by payment card industry entities. Failure to comply with standards issued pursuant to federal or state statutes or regulations may result in criminal penalties and civil sanctions. In addition to these statutes and regulations, future regulations and legislation that severely restrict or prohibit our use of patient identifiable or other information could limit our ability to use information critical to the operation of our business. Furthermore, if we violate a patient's privacy or are found to have violated any federal or state statute or regulation with regard to confidentiality or dissemination or use of protected health information, we could be liable for significant damages, fines or penalties and suffer reputational harm, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Cybersecurity threats are rapidly evolving and those threats and the means for obtaining access to our proprietary information systems are becoming increasingly sophisticated. Like most companies of our size, we regularly experience attempts by cyber-attackers to access the information stored in our information systems. We could experience a data security breach if we fail to maintain effective information security measures or anticipate, prevent or timely detect a cybersecurity attack, or if any of our third-party service providers fails to maintain such measures to protect information from our systems to which they have access. In the event that a cybersecurity incident results in a data breach, it could disrupt our operations and cause us to breach our contractual confidentiality obligations, violate applicable laws, incur significant litigation, regulatory. 23. Table of Contents. investigation and remediation costs, and sustain significant harm to our reputation and our competitive position, any or all of which could materially adversely affect our business and operating results.. If we lose our relationship with one or more key pharmaceutical manufacturers, or if the payments made or discounts provided by pharmaceutical manufacturers decline, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.. We maintain contractual relationships with numerous pharmaceutical manufacturers, which provide us with, among other things:. • discounts for drugs we purchase to be dispensed from our home delivery and specialty pharmacies;. • rebates based on distributions of drugs from our home delivery and specialty pharmacies and through pharmacies in our retail networks;. • administrative fees for managing rebate programs, including the development and maintenance of formularies that include the particular manufacturer's products; and. • access to limited distribution specialty pharmaceuticals.. The consolidation of pharmaceutical manufacturers, the termination or material alteration of our contractual relationships, or our failure to renew such contracts on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, formulary fee programs have been the subject of debate in federal and state legislatures and various other public and governmental forums. Adoption of new laws, rules or regulations or changes in, or new interpretations of, existing laws, rules or regulations, relating to any of these programs could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Pending and future litigation, government investigations, audits or other proceedings could subject us to significant monetary damages or penalties and/or require us to change our business practices, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. We are subject to risks relating to pending and future litigation, enforcement actions, regulatory proceedings, government inquiries and investigations, audits and other similar actions in connection with our business operations, including without limitation the dispensing of pharmaceutical products by our specialty and home delivery pharmacies, services rendered in connection with our disease management offerings, our pharmaceutical services operations, pharmacy benefit management services and mergers and acquisitions and other strategic activity. These proceedings often seek unspecified monetary damages and/or equitable relief. While we believe pending proceedings are without merit and intend to contest them vigorously, we cannot predict with certainty the outcome of any such proceedings. If one or more of these proceedings or any future proceeding has an unfavorable outcome, we cannot provide any assurance it would not have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations, including our ability to attract and retain clients as a result of any negative reputational impact of such an outcome. Further, while certain costs are covered by insurance, we may incur uninsured costs that are material to our financial performance in the defense of such proceedings. See \"Part I  -  Item 3  -  Legal Proceedings\" for a description of pending proceedings.. Commercial liability insurance coverage could be difficult to obtain for companies in our business sector, due to the volatility in premiums and/or retention requirements dictated by insurance carriers. We have established certain self-insurance accruals to cover anticipated losses within our retained liability for previously reported claims and the cost to defend these claims. However, there can be no assurance such accruals will cover actual losses or that general, professional, managed care errors and omissions, and/or other liability insurance coverage will be reasonably available in the future or such insurance coverage, together with our self-insurance accruals, will be adequate to cover future claims. A claim, or claims, in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Failure to appropriately estimate, price for and manage costs related to our risk-based medical benefit offerings in our medical benefit management business could have a material adverse effect on our Other Business Operations segment results of operations.. Our eviCore business contracts with health plan clients to promote appropriate use of healthcare services, in certain instances, through capitated risk arrangements where we assume the financial obligation for the cost of healthcare services provided to eligible members covered by our medical benefit management programs. Our inability to appropriately estimate the costs of services or utilization rates for these risk-based offerings in the negotiation of our capitated risk arrangements or to appropriately estimate the medical claims reserve for these risk-based offerings could have a material adverse effect on our Other Business Operations segment results of operations.. In capitated risk contracts, our cost of revenues related to our eviCore business includes the cost of medical claims incurred and paid, and an estimate of medical claims payable related to healthcare services provided to eligible members of the. 24. Table of Contents. health plans. Medical claims payable includes the ultimate net cost for medical claims reported but not yet paid, as well as a reserve for estimated incurred but not reported medical claims and related loss adjustment expenses. Because establishment of these reserves is an inherently uncertain process involving estimates of future losses, there can be no certainty that ultimate losses will not exceed existing medical claims reserves. Our inability to appropriately estimate the medical claims reserve for these risk-based offerings could have a material adverse effect on our business and Other Business Operations segment results of operations.. We face significant competition in attracting and retaining talented employees. Further, managing succession and retention for key executives is critical to our success, and our failure to do so could have an adverse impact on our future performance.. Our ability to attract and retain a qualified and experienced workforce is essential to meet current and future goals and objectives and there is no guarantee we will be able to attract and retain such employees or that competition among potential employers will not result in increased salaries or other benefits. An inability to retain existing employees or attract additional employees, or an unexpected loss of leadership, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. In addition, our failure to adequately plan for succession of senior management and other key management roles or the failure of key employees to successfully transition into new roles, including the role of Chief Executive Officer, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. While we have succession plans in place and employment arrangements with certain key executives, these do not guarantee the services of these executives will continue to be available to us.. Changes in drug pricing or industry pricing benchmarks could materially impact our financial performance.. Contracts in the prescription drug industry, including our contracts with retail pharmacy networks and with PBM and specialty pharmacy clients, generally use \"average wholesale price\" or \"AWP,\" which is published by a third party, as a benchmark to establish pricing for prescription drugs. In the event AWP is no longer published by third parties, we adopt other pricing benchmarks for establishing prices within the industry, or future changes in drug prices substantially deviate from our expectations, we can give no assurance the short- or long-term impact of such changes to industry pricing benchmarks or drug prices will not have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Legislation and other regulations affecting drug prices are described in more detail under \"Part I  -  Item 1  -  Business  -  Government Regulation and Compliance  -  Legislation and Regulation Affecting Drug Prices\" above.. Our debt service obligations reduce the funds available for other business purposes, and the terms and covenants relating to our indebtedness could adversely impact our financial performance and liquidity. Our inability to access the credit markets for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. We currently have debt outstanding, including indebtedness of ESI and Medco guaranteed by us. Our debt service obligations reduce the funds available for other business purposes. Increases in interest rates on variable rate indebtedness would increase our interest expense and could materially adversely affect our financial results. At December 31, 2017, we had $2,550.0 million of gross obligations under our credit agreement and our floating rate senior note which were subject to variable rates of interest. A hypothetical increase in interest rates of 1% would result in an increase in annual interest expense of approximately $25.5 million (pre-tax), assuming obligations subject to variable interest rates remained constant.. We are subject to risks normally associated with debt financing, such as the insufficiency of cash flow to meet required debt service payment obligations and the inability to refinance existing indebtedness. In addition, certain of our debt instruments contain covenants which include limitations or qualifications on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, initiate or permit liens on assets, and engage in mergers, consolidations or disposals. The covenants under our credit agreement also include, among other things, a maximum leverage ratio. If we fail to satisfy one or more of these debt covenants, we would be in default and may be required to repay such debt with capital from other sources or otherwise not be able to draw down against our revolving credit facility. Under such circumstances, other sources of capital may not be available to us, or be available only on unattractive terms. Our inability to refinance existing indebtedness or otherwise access the credit markets for any reason, whether due to market conditions or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. See \"Part II  -  Item 8  -  Note 7 - Financing\" for further description.. Delays, reductions, suspensions or cancellations of government spending or appropriations could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Certain of our revenues are ultimately sourced from government spending and appropriated funds. The failure to provide for continued appropriations or regular ongoing scheduled payments to us could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. 25. Table of Contents. We face risks associated with general economic conditions.. The state of the economy and various economic factors, including inflation, can have a significant impact on our business and results of operations. An unfavorable or uncertain economic environment could significantly and adversely affect our businesses and profitability and generate the following risks to our business:. • clients, employers and other benefit providers served by us and our clients may reduce or slow the growth of their workforce or covered membership, or may elect to discontinue or diminish provided benefits, which could reduce the number of members we serve;. • consumers may be less willing or able to incur healthcare related expenses; whether due to personal economic circumstances, reduction in the level of the healthcare benefit provided or otherwise, which would result in lower than anticipated utilization of our services;. • our clients, or potential clients, may increase demands and expectations with respect to pricing, rebates or service levels (including with respect to performance guarantees), which could impact our margins or our ability to obtain new clients or retain existing clients; and. • our clients, or potential clients, may be less willing to purchase additional products and services from us, which could negatively impact our financial performance.. Unfavorable and uncertain economic conditions may also cause disruptions in the credit markets, which could increase our cost of borrowing or make credit unavailable on acceptable terms to the extent we need additional funds. Such developments may adversely affect our business and results of operations."
