[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. As described in Part I (\"Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements\"), this report contains forward-looking statements regarding us, our business and our industry. The risk factors described below, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be negatively impacted.. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. Low oil and natural gas prices could depress or reduce demand or pricing for our natural gas compression and oil and natural gas production and processing equipment and services and, as a result, adversely affect our business.. Our results of operations depend upon the level of activity in the global energy market, including oil and natural gas development, production, processing and transportation. Oil and natural gas exploration and development activity and the number of well completions typically decline when there is a sustained reduction in oil or natural gas prices or significant instability in energy markets. Even the perception of longer-term lower oil or natural gas prices by oil and natural gas exploration, development and production companies can result in their decision to cancel, reduce or postpone major expenditures or to reduce or shut in well production.. Oil and natural gas prices and the level of drilling and exploration activity can be volatile. In periods of volatile commodity prices, the timing of any change in activity levels by our customers is difficult to predict. As a result, our ability to project the anticipated activity level for our business, and particularly our product sales segment may be limited.. During periods of lower oil or natural gas prices, our customers typically decrease their capital expenditures, which generally results in lower activity levels. A reduction in demand for our products and services could force us to reduce our pricing substantially, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. For example, due to the low oil and natural gas price environment during 2015 and the majority of 2016, our customers sought to reduce their capital and operating expenditure requirements, and as a result, the demand and pricing for the equipment we manufacture was adversely impacted. Moreover, a reduction in demand for our products and services could result in our customers seeking to preserve capital by canceling contracts, canceling or delaying scheduled maintenance of their existing natural gas compression and oil and natural gas production and processing equipment, ceasing commitments for new contract operations service contracts or new compression and oil and natural gas production and processing equipment, or canceling or delaying orders for our products and services, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The erosion of the financial condition of our customers could adversely affect our business.. Many of our customers finance their exploration and development activities through cash flows from operations, the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity. During times when the oil or natural gas markets weaken, our customers are more likely to experience a downturn in their financial condition. A reduction in borrowing bases under reserve-based credit facilities, the lack of availability of debt or equity financing or other factors that negatively impact our customers' financial condition could result in our customers seeking to preserve capital by reducing prices under existing contracts or cancelling contracts with us, determining not to renew contracts with us, cancelling or delaying scheduled maintenance of their existing natural gas compression and oil and natural gas production and processing equipment, determining not to enter into contract operations agreements or not to purchase new compression and oil and natural gas production and processing equipment, or determining to cancel or delay orders for our products and services. Any such action by our customers would reduce demand for our products and services. Reduced demand for our products and services could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, in the event of the financial failure of a customer, we could experience a loss on all or a portion of our outstanding accounts receivable associated with that customer.. Failure to timely and cost-effectively execute on larger projects could adversely affect our business.. Some of our projects have a relatively larger size and scope than the majority of our projects, which can translate into more technically challenging conditions or performance specifications for our products and services. Contracts with our customers for these projects typically specify delivery dates, performance criteria and penalties for our failure to perform. Any failure to estimate the cost of and execute these larger projects in a timely and cost effective manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 10. Table of Contents. We may incur losses on fixed-price contracts, which constitute a significant portion of our business.. In connection with projects and services performed under fixed-price contracts, we generally bear the risk of cost over-runs, operating cost inflation, labor availability and productivity, and supplier and subcontractor pricing and performance, unless additional costs result from customer-requested change orders. Under both our fixed-price contracts and our cost-reimbursable contracts, we may rely on third parties for many support services, and we could be subject to liability for their failures. Any failure to accurately estimate our costs and the time required for a fixed-price project at the time we enter into a contract could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our operations in international markets are subject to many risks.. Our contract operations and aftermarket services businesses, and a portion of our product sales business, are conducted in countries outside the U.S. We currently operate in approximately 30 countries. With respect to any particular country in which we operate, the risks inherent in our activities may include the following, the occurrence of any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows:. • difficulties in managing international operations, including our ability to timely and cost effectively execute projects;. • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, laws or policies by foreign agencies or governments;. • work stoppages;. • training and retaining qualified personnel in international markets;. • the burden of complying with multiple and potentially conflicting laws and regulations;. • tariffs and other trade barriers;. • actions by governments or national oil companies that result in the nullification or renegotiation on less than favorable terms of existing contracts, or otherwise result in the deprivation of contractual rights, and other difficulties in enforcing contractual obligations;. • governmental actions that: result in restricting the movement of property or that impede our ability to import or export parts or equipment; require a certain percentage of equipment to contain local or domestic content; or require certain local or domestic ownership, control or employee ratios in order to do business in or obtain special incentives or treatment in certain jurisdictions;. • potentially longer receipt of payment cycles;. • changes in political and economic conditions in the countries in which we operate, including general political unrest, the nationalization of energy related assets, civil uprisings, riots, kidnappings, violence associated with drug cartels and terrorist acts;. • potentially adverse tax consequences or tax law changes;. • currency controls or restrictions on repatriation of earnings;. • expropriation, confiscation or nationalization of property without fair compensation;. • the risk that our international customers may have reduced access to credit because of higher interest rates, reduced bank lending or a deterioration in our customers' or their lenders' financial condition;. • complications associated with installing, operating and repairing equipment in remote locations;. • limitations on insurance coverage;. • inflation;. • the geographic, time zone, language and cultural differences among personnel in different areas of the world; and. • difficulties in establishing new international offices and the risks inherent in establishing new relationships in foreign countries.. In addition, we may expand our business in international markets where we have not previously conducted business. The risks inherent in establishing new business ventures, especially in international markets where local customs, laws and business procedures present special challenges, may affect our ability to be successful in these ventures or avoid losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 11. Table of Contents. Our contract operations segment is dependent on companies that are controlled by the government in which it operates.. The countries with our largest contract operations businesses include Mexico, Brazil and Argentina. We generate a significant portion of our revenue in these countries from national oil companies, including Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales in Argentina, Petroleos Mexicanos in Mexico and Petrobras in Brazil. Contracts with national oil companies may expose us to greater commercial, political and operational risks than we assume in other contracts. Our ability to resolve disputes or enforce contractual provisions may be negatively impacted by the significant bargaining leverage that national oil companies have over us. If our national oil company customers cancel some of our contracts and we are unable to secure new contracts on a timely basis and on substantially similar terms, or if a number of our contracts are renegotiated, it could adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows.. We are exposed to exchange rate fluctuations in the international markets in which we operate.. We operate in many international countries and anticipate that there will be instances in which costs and revenues will not be exactly matched with respect to currency denomination. Gains and losses from the remeasurement of assets and liabilities that are receivable or payable in currencies other than our subsidiaries' functional currency are included in our statements of operations. In addition, currency fluctuations cause the U.S. dollar value of our international results of operations and net assets to vary with exchange rate fluctuations. A decrease in the value of any of these currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. As we expand geographically, we may experience economic loss and a negative impact on earnings or net assets solely as a result of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. In the future, we may utilize derivative instruments to manage the risk of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates that could potentially impact our future earnings and forecasted cash flows. However, the markets in which we operate could restrict the removal or conversion of the local or foreign currency, resulting in our inability to hedge against some or all of these risks.. See further discussion of foreign exchange risks under Item 7A \"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk\" included elsewhere in this Annual Report.. We are involved in governmental and internal investigations, which are costly to conduct, may result in substantial financial and other penalties, and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In March 2016, the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors retained legal counsel to conduct an internal investigation related to the application of percentage-of-completion accounting principles to specific Belleli EPC product sales projects. Our Belleli EPC business had historically been comprised of engineering, procurement and construction for the manufacture of tanks for tank farms and the manufacture of evaporators and brine heaters for desalination plants in the Middle East (referred to as \"Belleli EPC\" or the \"Belleli EPC business\" herein). On April 26, 2016, we filed a Form 8-K reporting the errors and possible irregularities at Belleli EPC. Contemporaneously with filing the Form 8-K, we self-reported these issues to the SEC. We continue to cooperate with the SEC in its ongoing investigation of this matter, which has included responding to a subpoena for documents related to the circumstances giving rise to the restatement as well as documents related to our compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\"), which were also provided to the Department of Justice (\"DOJ\") at its request. We also have made the SEC and DOJ aware of our internal investigation regarding previously restated non-income-based tax receivables due to us from the Brazilian government. We could be subject to stockholder or other actions, or further regulatory actions, in connection with these issues in the future.. The SEC staff has notified us that they have concluded their investigation concerning our compliance with the FCPA and that they do not intend to recommend an enforcement action concerning our compliance with the FCPA. The DOJ has similarly informed us that it does not intend to proceed with any further investigation or enforcement. The SEC's investigation related to the circumstances giving rise to the restatement is continuing, and we are presently unable to predict the duration, scope or results or whether the SEC will commence any legal action. If we are found to have violated securities laws or other federal statutes, we may be subject to criminal and civil penalties and other remedial measures, including, but not limited to injunctive relief, disgorgement, civil and criminal fines and penalties, modifications to business practices including the termination or modification of existing business relationships, modifications of compliance programs and the retention of a monitor to oversee compliance. The imposition of any of these sanctions or remedial measures could have a material adverse impact on our reputation, business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and stock price.. 12. Table of Contents. The termination of or any price reductions under certain of our contract operations services contracts could have a material impact on our business.. The termination of or a demand by our customers to reduce prices under certain of our contract operations services contracts may lead to a reduction in our revenues and net income, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, we may be unable to renew, or enter into new, contracts with customers on favorable commercial terms, if at all. To the extent we are unable to renew our existing contracts or enter into new contracts on terms that are favorable to us or to successfully manage our overall contract mix over time, our business, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely impacted.. Product sales backlog may be subject to unexpected adjustments and cancellations.. The revenues projected in our product sales backlog may not be realized or, if realized, may not result in profits. Due to potential project cancellations or changes in project scope and schedule, we cannot predict with certainty when or if backlog will be performed. In addition, even where a project proceeds as scheduled, it is possible that contracted parties may default and fail to pay amounts owed to us or poor project performance could increase the cost associated with a project. Delays, suspensions, cancellations, payment defaults, scope changes and poor project execution could materially reduce the revenues and reduce or eliminate profits that we actually realize from projects in backlog. We may be at greater risk of delays, suspensions and cancellations during periods of low oil and natural gas prices.. Reductions in our product sales backlog due to cancellation or modification by a customer or for other reasons may adversely affect, potentially to a material extent, the revenues and earnings we actually receive from contracts included in our backlog. Many of the contracts in our product sales backlog provide for cancellation fees in the event customers cancel projects. These cancellation fees usually provide for reimbursement of our out-of-pocket costs, revenues for work performed prior to cancellation and a varying percentage of the profits we would have realized had the contract been completed. However, we typically have no contractual right upon cancellation to the total revenue reflected in our backlog. Projects may remain in our backlog for extended periods of time. If we experience significant project terminations, suspensions or scope adjustments to contracts reflected in our backlog, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely impacted.. From time to time, we are subject to various claims, litigation and other proceedings that could ultimately be resolved against us, requiring material future cash payments or charges, which could impair our financial condition or results of operations.. The size, nature and complexity of our business make us susceptible to various claims, both in litigation and binding arbitration proceedings. We are currently, and may in the future become, subject to various claims, which, if not resolved within amounts we have accrued, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Similarly, any claims, even if fully indemnified or insured, could negatively impact our reputation among our customers and the public, and make it more difficult for us to compete effectively or obtain adequate insurance in the future.. We depend on particular suppliers and may be vulnerable to product shortages and price increases.. Some of the components used in our products are obtained from a single source or a limited group of suppliers. Our reliance on these suppliers involves several risks, including price increases, quality and a potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components in a timely manner. We do not have long-term contracts with some of these sources, and the partial or complete loss of certain of these sources could have a negative impact on our results of operations and could damage our customer relationships. Further, a significant increase in the price of one or more of these components could have a negative impact on our results of operations.. We face significant competitive pressures that may cause us to lose market share and harm our financial performance.. Our businesses face intense competition and have low barriers to entry. Our competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to technological changes within our industry and changes in economic and market conditions and more readily take advantage of acquisitions and other opportunities. Our ability to renew or replace existing contract operations service contracts with our customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenue and cash flows could be adversely affected by the activities of our competitors. If our competitors substantially increase the resources they devote to the development and marketing of competitive products, equipment or services or substantially decrease the price at which they offer their products, equipment or services, we may not be able to compete effectively.. 13. Table of Contents. In addition, we could face significant competition from new entrants into the compression services and product sales businesses. Some of our existing competitors or new entrants may expand or develop new processing, treating and compression equipment that would create additional competition for the products, equipment or services we provide to our customers.. Our ability to manage and grow our business effectively may be adversely affected if we lose management or operational personnel.. We believe that our ability to hire, train and retain qualified personnel will continue to be challenging and important. The supply of experienced operational and field personnel, in particular, decreases as other energy and manufacturing companies' needs for the same personnel increase. Our ability to grow and to continue our current level of service to our customers will be adversely impacted if we are unable to successfully hire, train and retain these important personnel.. Our employees work on projects that are inherently dangerous. If we fail to maintain safe work sites, we can be exposed to significant financial losses and reputational harm.. Safety is a leading focus of our business, and our safety record is critical to our reputation and is of paramount importance to our employees, customers and stockholders. However, we often work on large-scale and complex projects which can place our employees and others near large mechanized equipment, moving vehicles, dangerous processes and in challenging environments. Although we have a functional group whose primary purpose is to implement effective quality, health, safety, environmental and security procedures throughout our company, if we fail to implement effective safety procedures, our employees and others may become injured, disabled or lose their lives, our projects may be delayed and we may be exposed to litigation or investigations.. Unsafe conditions at project work sites also have the potential to increase employee turnover, increase project costs and raise our operating costs. Additionally, many of our customers require that we meet certain safety criteria to be eligible to bid for contracts and our failure to maintain adequate safety standards could result in reduced profitability, or lost project awards or customers. Any of the foregoing could result in financial losses or reputational harm, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our operations entail inherent risks that may result in substantial liability. We do not insure against all potential losses and could be seriously harmed by unexpected liabilities.. Our operations entail inherent risks, including equipment defects, malfunctions and failures and natural disasters, which could result in uncontrollable flows of natural gas or well fluids, fires and explosions. These risks may expose us, as an equipment operator and developer, to liability for personal injury, wrongful death, property damage, pollution and other environmental damage. The insurance we carry against many of these risks may not be adequate to cover our claims or losses. In addition, we are substantially self-insured for workers' compensation, employer's liability, property, auto liability, general liability and employee group health claims in view of the relatively high per-incident deductibles we absorb under our insurance arrangements for these risks. Further, insurance covering the risks we expect to face or in the amounts we desire may not be available in the future or, if available, the premiums may not be commercially justifiable. If we were to incur substantial liability and such damages were not covered by insurance or were in excess of policy limits, or if we were to incur liability at a time when we are not able to obtain liability insurance, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted.. We may be subject to risks arising from changes in technology.. The supply chains in which we operate are subject to technological changes and changes in customer requirements. We may not successfully develop or implement new or modified types of products or technologies that may be required by our customers in the future. Further, the development of new technologies by competitors that may compete with our technologies could reduce demand for our products and affect our financial performance. Should we not be able to maintain or enhance the competitive values of our products or develop and introduce new products or technologies successfully, or if new products or technologies fail to generate sufficient revenues to offset research and development costs, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected.. 14. Table of Contents. Cyber-attacks or terrorism could affect our business.. We may be adversely affected by problems such as cyber-attacks, computer viruses or terrorism that may disrupt our operations and harm our operating results. Our industry requires the continued operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure. Despite our implementation of security measures, our technology systems are vulnerable to disability or failures due to hacking, viruses, acts of war or terrorism and other causes. If our information technology systems were to fail and we were unable to recover in a timely way, we might be unable to fulfill critical business functions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, our assets may be targets of terrorist activities that could disrupt our ability to service our customers. We may be required by our regulators or by the future terrorist threat environment to make investments in security that we cannot currently predict. The implementation of security guidelines and measures and maintenance of insurance, to the extent available, could increase costs. These types of events could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, these types of events could require significant management attention and resources, and could adversely affect our reputation among customers and the public.. We are subject to a variety of governmental regulations; failure to comply with these regulations may result in administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures and changes in these regulations could increase our costs or liabilities.. We are subject to a variety of U.S. federal, state, local and international laws and regulations relating to, for example, export controls, currency exchange, labor and employment and taxation. Many of these laws and regulations are complex, change frequently, are becoming increasingly stringent, and the cost of compliance with these requirements can be expected to increase over time. From time to time, as part of our operations we may be subject to compliance audits by regulatory authorities in the various countries in which we operate. Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including assessment of monetary penalties, imposition of remedial requirements and issuance of injunctions as to future compliance, any of which may have a negative impact on our financial condition, profitability and results of operations.. Our international operations require us to comply with U.S. and international laws and regulations, including those involving anti-bribery and anti-corruption. For example, the FCPA and similar laws and regulations prohibit improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or gaining any business advantage.. We operate in many parts of the world that experience high levels of corruption, and our business brings us in frequent contact with foreign officials. Our compliance policies and programs mandate compliance with all applicable anti-corruption laws but may not be completely effective in ensuring our compliance. Our training and compliance program and our internal control policies and procedures may not always protect us from violations committed by our employees or agents. If we undergo an investigation of potential violations of anti-corruption laws or if we fail to comply with these laws, we may incur significant legal expenses or be subject to criminal and civil penalties and other sanctions and remedial measures, which could have a material adverse impact on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. We also are subject to other laws and regulations governing our operations, including regulations administered by the U.S. Department of Treasury's Office of Foreign Asset Control and various non-U.S. government entities, including applicable export control regulations, economic sanctions on countries and persons and customs requirements. Trade control laws are complex and constantly changing. Our compliance policies and programs increase our cost of doing business and may not work effectively to ensure our compliance with trade control laws. If we undergo an investigation of potential violations of trade control laws by U.S. or foreign authorities or if we fail to comply with these laws, we may incur significant legal expenses or be subject to criminal and civil penalties and other sanctions and remedial measures, which could have a material adverse impact on our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations.. 15. Table of Contents. Tax legislation and administrative initiatives or challenges to our tax positions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We operate in locations throughout the U.S. and internationally and, as a result, we are subject to the tax laws and regulations of U.S. federal, state, local and foreign governments. From time to time, various legislative or administrative initiatives may be proposed that could adversely affect our tax positions. In addition, U.S. federal, state and local and foreign tax laws and regulations are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. Moreover, economic and political pressures to increase tax revenue in various jurisdictions may make resolving tax disputes favorably more difficult. There can be no assurance that our tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in any such challenge. Changes to our tax positions resulting from tax legislation and administrative initiatives or challenges from taxing authorities could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Reform Act\"). The Tax Reform Act makes broad and complex changes to the U.S. tax code, including, but not limited to, (1) reducing the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%; (2) requiring companies to pay a one-time transition tax on certain unrepatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries; (3) generally eliminating U.S. federal income taxes on dividends from foreign subsidiaries; (4) requiring a current inclusion in U.S. federal taxable income of certain earnings of controlled foreign corporations; (5) eliminating the corporate alternative minimum tax (\"AMT\") and changing how existing AMT credits can be realized; (6) creating the base erosion anti-abuse tax, a new minimum tax; (7) creating a new limitation on deductible interest expense; and (8) changing rules related to uses and limitations of net operating loss carryforwards created in tax years beginning after December 31, 2017. Guidance under U.S. GAAP requires that the impact of tax legislation be recognized in the period in which the law was enacted.. In December 2017, the SEC staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118, which addresses how a company recognizes provisional amounts when a company does not have the necessary information available, prepared or analyzed (including computations) in reasonable detail to complete its accounting for the effect of the changes in the Tax Reform Act. The measurement period ends when a company has obtained, prepared and analyzed the information necessary to finalize its accounting, but cannot extend beyond one year.. While we recorded provisional estimates of the impact of the Tax Reform Act, the final impact may differ from these estimates, due to, among other things, changes in our interpretations and assumptions, additional guidance that may be issued by the government and actions we may take as a result of these enacted tax laws. We are continuing to analyze additional information to determine the final impact as well as other impacts of the Tax Reform Act. Any adjustments recorded to the provisional amounts will be included in income from operations as an adjustment to our 2018 financial statements.. U.S. federal, state and local legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing as well as governmental reviews of such activities could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays in the completion of oil and natural gas wells, and adversely affect demand for our products.. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of natural gas and/or oil, from dense subsurface rock formations. Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand or alternative proppant and chemicals under pressure into target geological formations to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. Hydraulic fracturing is typically regulated by state agencies, but recently, there has been increased public concern regarding an alleged potential for hydraulic fracturing to adversely affect drinking water supplies, and proposals have been made to enact separate U.S. federal, state and local legislation that would increase the regulatory burden imposed on hydraulic fracturing.. 16. Table of Contents. For example, at the U.S. federal level, the U. S. Environmental Protection Agency (\"EPA\") issued an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking to collect data on chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing operations under Section 8 of the Toxic Substances Control Act, and proposed regulations under the CWA governing wastewater discharges from hydraulic fracturing and certain other natural gas operations. Also, the U.S. Department of the Interior released a final rule that updates existing regulation of hydraulic fracturing activities on U.S. federal lands, including requirements for chemical disclosure, wellbore integrity and handling of flowback water. The final rule was expected to be effective on June 24, 2015, but, on September 30, 2015, a federal district court issued a preliminary injunction preventing implementation of the rule. In addition, several governmental reviews are underway that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing activities. In June 2015, the EPA released its draft report on the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources, which concluded that hydraulic fracturing activities have not led to widespread, systemic impacts on drinking water sources in the U.S., although there are above and below ground mechanisms by which hydraulic fracturing activities have the potential to impact drinking water sources. The draft report is expected to be finalized after a public comment period and a formal review by EPA's Science Advisory Board. In addition, the White House Council on Environmental Quality is coordinating an administration-wide review of hydraulic fracturing practices. The results of this study or similar governmental reviews could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing under the Safe Drinking Water Act of 1974 or otherwise.. At the state level, several states have adopted or are considering legal requirements that could impose more stringent permitting, disclosure, and well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing activities. For example in May 2013, the Texas Railroad Commission adopted new rules governing well casing, cementing and other standards for ensuring that hydraulic fracturing operations do not contaminate nearby water resources. Local governments may also seek to adopt ordinances within their jurisdictions regulating the time, place and manner of, or prohibiting the performance of, drilling activities in general or hydraulic fracturing activities in particular. If new or more stringent federal, state or local legal restrictions relating to the hydraulic fracturing process are adopted in areas where our natural gas exploration and production customers operate, those customers could incur potentially significant added costs to comply with such requirements, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development or production activities and perhaps even be precluded from drilling wells. Any such restrictions could reduce demand for our products, and as a result could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The inability to acquire adequate supplies of water for our or our customers' operations or the inability to dispose of or recycle the water we or our customers' use economically and in an environmentally safe manner could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays in the completion of oil and natural gas wells, and adversely affect demand for our products.. Oil and gas development activities require the use of water. For example, the hydraulic fracturing process to produce commercial quantities of oil and natural gas from many reservoirs requires the use and disposal of significant quantities of water. In certain areas, there may be a scarcity of water for drilling activities due to various factors, including insufficient local aquifer capacity or government regulations restricting the use of water. Our customers' inability to secure sufficient amounts of water, or our or our customers' inability to dispose of or recycle the water used in operations, could adversely impact our or our customers' operations in certain areas. The imposition of new environmental initiatives and regulations, could further restrict our or our customers' ability to conduct certain operations disposal of waste, including, but not limited to, produced water, drilling fluids and other materials associated with the exploration, development or production of oil and natural gas. Any such restrictions could reduce demand for our products, and as a result could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 17. Table of Contents. We are subject to a variety of environmental, health and safety regulations. Failure to comply with these regulations may result in administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures and changes in these regulations could increase our costs or liabilities.. We are subject to a variety of U.S. federal, state, local and international laws and regulations relating to the environment, and worker health and safety. These laws and regulations are complex, change frequently, are becoming increasingly stringent, and the cost of compliance with these requirements can be expected to increase over time. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including assessment of monetary penalties, imposition of remedial requirements and issuance of injunctions as to future compliance. Certain of these laws also may impose joint and several and strict liability for environmental contamination, which may render us liable for remediation costs, natural resource damages and other damages as a result of our conduct that may have been lawful at the time it occurred or the conduct of, or conditions caused by, prior owners or operators or other third parties. In addition, where contamination may be present, it is not uncommon for neighboring land owners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury, property damage and recovery of response costs. Remediation costs and other damages arising as a result of environmental laws and regulations, and costs associated with new information, changes in existing environmental laws and regulations or the adoption of new environmental laws and regulations could be substantial and could negatively impact our financial condition, profitability and results of operations.. We may need to apply for or amend facility permits or licenses from time to time with respect to storm water or wastewater discharges, waste handling, or air emissions relating to manufacturing activities or equipment operations, which subjects us to new or revised permitting conditions. These permits and authorizations may contain numerous compliance requirements, including monitoring and reporting obligations and operational restrictions, such as emission limits, which may be onerous or costly to comply with. Given the large number of facilities in which we operate, and the numerous environmental permits and other authorizations that are applicable to our operations, we may occasionally identify or be notified of technical violations of certain requirements existing in various permits or other authorizations. Occasionally, we have been assessed penalties for our non-compliance, and we could be subject to such penalties in the future.. The modification or interpretation of existing environmental, health and safety laws or regulations, the more vigorous enforcement of existing laws or regulations, or the adoption of new laws or regulations may also negatively impact oil and natural gas exploration and production, gathering and pipeline companies, including our customers, which in turn could have a negative impact on us.. Global climate change is an increased international concern and could increase operating costs or reduce the demand for our products and services.. There has been an increased focus in the last several years on climate change and the possible role that emissions of greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide and methane play in climate change. In the U.S., the EPA has begun to regulate greenhouse gas emissions under the federal Clean Air Act and regulatory agencies and legislative bodies in other countries where we operate have adopted greenhouse gas emission reduction programs. The adoption of new or more stringent legislation or regulatory programs restricting greenhouse gas emissions could require us to incur higher operating costs or increase the cost of, and thus reduce the demand for, the hydrocarbon products of our customers. These increased costs or reduced demand could have an adverse effect on our business, profitability or results of operations.. Further, some scientists have concluded that increasing greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere may produce physical effects, such as increased severity and frequency of storms, droughts, floods and other climate events. To the extent there are significant changes in the Earth's climate in the markets we serve or the areas where our assets reside, we could incur increased expenses, our operations could be materially impacted, and demand for our products could fall. Demand for our products may also be adversely affected by conservation plans and efforts undertaken in response to global climate change, including plans developed in connection with the Paris climate conference in December 2015. Many governments also provide, or may in the future provide, tax advantages and other subsidies to support the use and development of alternative energy technologies. Our operations and the demand for our products or our customers' products could be materially impacted by the development and adoption of these technologies.. 18. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Our Level of Indebtedness. Our outstanding debt obligations could limit our ability to fund future growth and operations and increase our exposure to risk during adverse economic conditions.. At December 31, 2017, we had approximately $375.0 million under our 8.125% senior unsecured notes due 2025 (the \"2017 Notes\"). We did not have any borrowings under our revolving credit facility as of December 31, 2017. Many factors, including factors beyond our control, may affect our ability to make payments on our outstanding indebtedness. These factors include those discussed elsewhere in these Risk Factors and those listed in the Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements section included in Part I of this Annual report.. Our debt and associated commitments could have important adverse consequences. For example, these commitments could:. • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our contractual obligations;. • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. • limit our ability to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, investments, acquisitions or other corporate requirements;. • increase our vulnerability to interest rate fluctuations because the interest payments on borrowings under our revolving credit facility are based upon variable interest rates and can adjust based upon our credit statistics;. • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry;. • place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or less restrictive covenants in such debt; and. • limit our ability to borrow additional funds in the future.. Covenants in our debt agreements may restrict our ability to operate our business.. Our credit agreement, consisting of a $680.0 million revolving credit facility expiring in November 2020, contains various covenants with which we, Exterran Energy Solutions, L.P. (\"EESLP\"), our wholly owned subsidiary, and our respective restricted subsidiaries must comply, including, but not limited to, limitations on the incurrence of indebtedness, investments, liens on assets, repurchasing equity, making distributions, transactions with affiliates, mergers, consolidations, dispositions of assets and other provisions customary in similar types of agreements. Additionally, we are required to maintain certain financial covenant ratios. If we fail to remain in compliance with these restrictions and financial covenants, we would be in default under our credit agreement. In addition, if we experience a material adverse effect on our assets, liabilities, financial condition, business or operations that, taken as a whole, impact our ability to perform our obligations under our credit agreement, this could lead to a default. A default under one of our debt agreements might trigger cross-default provisions under our other debt agreement, which would accelerate our obligation to repay our indebtedness under those agreements. If the repayment obligations on any of our indebtedness were to be accelerated, we may not be able to repay the debt or refinance the debt on acceptable terms, and our financial position would be materially adversely affected. As of December 31, 2017, we were in compliance with all financial covenants under our credit agreement.. As a result of a covenant restriction included in our credit agreement, $585.2 million of the $640.3 million of undrawn capacity under our revolving credit facility was available for additional borrowings as of December 31, 2017.. We may increase our debt or raise additional capital in the future, which could affect our financial condition, may decrease our profitability or could dilute our shareholders.. We may increase our debt or raise additional capital in the future, subject to restrictions in our debt agreements. If our cash flow from operations is less than we anticipate, or if our cash requirements are more than we expect, we may require more financing. However, debt or equity financing may not be available to us on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we incur additional debt or raise equity through the issuance of preferred stock, the terms of the debt or preferred stock issued may give the holders rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock, particularly in the event of liquidation. The terms of the debt may also impose additional and more stringent restrictions on our operations than we currently have. If we raise funds through the issuance of additional equity, our shareholders' ownership in us would be diluted. If we are unable to raise additional capital when needed, it could affect our financial health, which could negatively affect our shareholders.. 19. Table of Contents. Risks Related to the Spin-off. As a result of the Spin-off, we and Archrock are subject to certain noncompetition restrictions, which may limit our ability to grow our business.. In connection with the completion of the Spin-off, we entered into a separation and distribution agreement with Archrock that contains certain noncompetition provisions addressing restrictions on our ability to provide compression contract operations and aftermarket services in the U.S. and on Archrock's ability to provide compression contract operations and aftermarket services outside of the U.S. and product sales to customers worldwide that expire on November 3, 2018, subject to certain exceptions. These restrictions limit our ability to attract new compression contract operations and aftermarket services customers in the U.S., which will limit our ability to grow our business.. In addition, if we are unable to enforce the limitations on Archrock's ability to provide certain contract operations, aftermarket services and product sales, we may lose prospective customers to Archrock, which could affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows to suffer.. We provide Archrock and its affiliates with certain manufactured products and we depend on Archrock and its affiliates for a significant amount of our product sales revenues.. Archrock and its affiliates are among our largest customers. During the year ended December 31, 2017, Archrock and its affiliates accounted for approximately 12% of our total revenue. Therefore, we are indirectly subject to the operational and business risks of Archrock and its affiliates. If Archrock and its affiliates are unable to satisfy its obligations or reduces its demand for any reason, our revenues would decline and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. Further, we have no control over Archrock and its affiliates, and Archrock and its affiliates may elect to pursue a business strategy that does not favor us or our business.. We are subject to continuing contingent tax liabilities of Archrock.. Certain tax liabilities of Archrock may become our obligations. Under the Code and the related rules and regulations, each corporation that was a member of the Archrock consolidated U.S. federal income tax reporting group during any taxable period or portion of any taxable period ending on or before the effective time of the Spin-off is jointly and severally liable for the U.S. federal income tax liability of the entire Archrock consolidated tax reporting group for that taxable period. In connection with the Spin-off, we entered into a tax matters agreement with Archrock that allocates the responsibility for prior period taxes of the Archrock consolidated tax reporting group between us and Archrock. If Archrock is unable to pay any prior period taxes for which it is responsible, we could be required to pay the entire amount of such taxes.. Our prior and continuing relationship with Archrock exposes us to risks attributable to businesses of Archrock.. Archrock is obligated to indemnify us for losses that third parties may seek to impose upon us or our affiliates for liabilities relating to the business of Archrock that are incurred through a breach of the separation and distribution agreement or any ancillary agreement by Archrock or its affiliates other than us, or losses that are attributable to Archrock in connection with the Spin-off or are not expressly assumed by us under our agreements with Archrock. Any claims made against us that are properly attributable to Archrock in accordance with these arrangements would require us to exercise our rights under our agreements with Archrock to obtain payment from Archrock. We are exposed to the risk that, in these circumstances, Archrock cannot, or will not, make the required payment.. 20. Table of Contents. In connection with our separation from Archrock, Archrock will indemnify us for certain liabilities, and we will indemnify Archrock for certain liabilities. If we are required to act on these indemnities to Archrock, we may need to divert cash to meet those obligations, and our financial results could be negatively impacted. In the case of Archrock's indemnity, there can be no assurance that the indemnity will be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of such liabilities, or as to Archrock's ability to satisfy its indemnification obligations.. Pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement and other agreements with Archrock, Archrock has agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities, and we have agreed to indemnify Archrock for certain liabilities, in each case for uncapped amounts, as discussed further in our Registration Statement. Under the separation and distribution agreement, we and Archrock will generally release the other party from all claims arising prior to the Spin-off that relate to the other party's business, subject to certain exceptions. Also pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement, we have agreed to use our commercially reasonable efforts to remove Archrock as a party to certain of our contracts with third parties. In the event that Archrock remains as a party, we expect to indemnify Archrock for any liabilities relating to such contracts. Indemnities that we may be required to provide Archrock will not be subject to any cap, may be significant and could negatively impact our business, particularly indemnities relating to our actions that could impact the tax-free nature of the Spin-off.. With respect to Archrock's agreement to indemnify us, there can be no assurance that the indemnity from Archrock will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that Archrock will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. Moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from Archrock any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses ourselves. Each of these risks could negatively affect our business, cash flows, results of operations and financial condition.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile.. The market price of our stock may be influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including the following:. • the inability to meet the financial estimates of analysts who follow our common stock;. • strategic actions by us or our competitors;. • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, joint marketing relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments;. • variations in our quarterly operating results and those of our competitors;. • general economic and stock market conditions;. • risks relating to our business and our industry, including those discussed above;. • changes in conditions or trends in our industry, markets or customers;. • cyber-attacks or terrorist acts;. • future sales of our common stock or other securities;. • material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting; and. • investor perceptions of the investment opportunity associated with our common stock relative to other investment alternatives.. These broad market and industry factors may materially reduce the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In addition, price volatility may be greater if the public float and trading volume of our common stock is low.. 21. Table of Contents. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to choose the judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternate forum, the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any director, officer or other employee to us or our stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or our bylaws, in each case, as amended from time to time, or (iv) any action asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine, shall be the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware, in all cases subject to the court's having personal jurisdiction over the indispensable parties named as defendants. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our capital stock is deemed to have received notice of and consented to the foregoing provision. This forum selection provision may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable or cost-effective for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors, officers and employees."
