[1] "ITEM 1A  -  RISK FACTORS. There are many risks and uncertainties that may affect our operations, performance, development and results. Many of these risks are beyond our control. The following is a description of the important risk factors that may affect our business. If any of these risks were to actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Changes in, or failure to comply with, laws and regulations affecting our products and services could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial performance.. Our products and services are subject to regulation under various laws and regulations in each country and jurisdiction in which we operate (see \"Part I, Item 1  -  Business  -  Regulation\"), and adverse legislation or regulations could be adopted in any such country or jurisdiction. If such legislation or regulation is adopted in any particular jurisdiction, we generally evaluate our business in the context of the new rules and determine whether we can continue to operate in that jurisdiction with new or modified products or whether it is feasible to enhance our business with additional product offerings. In any case, if we are unable to continue to operate profitably under the new rules, we may decide to close or consolidate stores, resulting in decreased revenues, earnings and assets. Further, our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could result in fines, penalties or orders to cease or suspend operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. A significant portion of our U.S. business is concentrated in Texas and Florida.. As of September 30, 2017, more than 60% of our U.S. pawn stores were located in Texas (42%) and Florida (19%), and those stores account for a significant portion of our revenues and profitability. The legislative, regulatory and general business environment in Texas and Florida has been relatively favorable for our pawn business activities, but a negative legislative or regulatory change in either of those states could have a material adverse effect on our overall operations and financial performance. Further, as discussed below, areas in Texas and Florida where we have significant operations are particularly susceptible to hurricane and tropical storm activity.. We have significant operations in Latin America, and changes in the business, regulatory, political or social climate could adversely affect our operations there, which could adversely affect our results of operations and growth plans.. We own and operate a significant number of pawn stores in Mexico and recently acquired an additional 112 stores located in other countries in Latin America (Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras and Peru). Further, our growth plans include potential expansion in those countries as well as, potentially, other countries in Latin America. Doing business in those countries exposes us to risks related to political instability, corruption, economic volatility, drug cartel and gang-related violence, social unrest including riots and looting, tax and foreign investment policies, public safety and security, and uncertain application of laws. 10. Table of Contents. and regulations. Consequently, actions or events in any of those countries that are beyond our control could restrict our ability to operate there or otherwise adversely affect the profitability of those operations. Furthermore, changes in the business, regulatory or political climate in any of those countries, or significant fluctuations in currency exchange rates, could affect our ability to expand or continue our operations there, which could have a material adverse impact on our prospects, results of operations and cash flows. For a brief description of the current regulatory environment in the Latin American countries in which we currently operate, see \"Mexico Regulations\" and \"Other Latin America Regulations\" under \"Part I, Item 1  -  Business  -  Regulation.\". A significant or sudden decrease in gold values or the volume of gold transactions may have a material impact on our earnings and financial position.. Gold jewelry comprises a large portion of the collateral security for our pawn loans and our inventory. Pawn service charges, sales proceeds and our ability to liquidate excess jewelry inventory at an acceptable margin are dependent upon gold values and the volume of gold transactions. A decline in the availability of gold or our customers' willingness or ability to sell us gold or use gold as collateral for pawn loans could impact our business. From 2012 through 2015, we experienced a significant softening of gold prices and volumes in the aggregate, which had a negative impact on our profitability. The impact on our financial position and results of operations of further decreases in gold values or volumes or a change in customer behavior cannot be reasonably estimated because the market and customer response to changes in gold values is not known; however, a significant decline in gold values or gold volumes could result in decreases in sales, sales margins and pawn service charges.. A significant change in foreign currency exchange rates could have a material adverse impact on our earnings and financial position.. We have foreign operations in Latin America (Mexico, Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras and Peru) and Canada, and an equity investment in Australia. Our assets and investments in, and earnings and dividends from, each of these countries must be translated to U.S. dollars from their respective functional currencies. A significant weakening of any of these foreign currencies could result in lower assets and earnings in U.S. dollars, resulting in a potentially material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Fluctuations in our sales, pawn loan balances, sales margins and pawn redemption rates could have a material adverse impact on our operating results.. We regularly experience fluctuations in a variety of operating metrics. Changes in any of these metrics, as might be caused by changes in the economic environment, competitive pressures, changes in customers' tastes and preferences or a significant decrease in gold prices could materially and adversely affect our profitability and ability to achieve our planned results of operations.. Achievement of our growth objectives is dependent upon our ability to open and acquire new stores.. Our expansion strategy includes acquiring existing stores and opening de novo store locations. Our acquisition strategy is dependent upon the availability of attractive acquisition candidates, while the success of our de novo store strategy is contingent upon numerous factors that cannot be predicted or controlled, such as the availability of acceptable locations with a desirable customer base, the negotiation of acceptable lease terms, the ability to obtain required government permits and licenses and the existence of a suitable competitive environment. The achievement of our growth objectives is also subject to our ability to attract, train and retain qualified team members. Failure to achieve our expansion goals could adversely affect our prospects and future results of operations.. Our continued success is dependent on our ability to recruit, hire, retain and motivate talented executives and other key employees.. To remain competitive, sustain our success over the long-term and realize our strategic goals, we need to attract, hire, retain and motivate talented executives and other key employees to fill existing positions and reduce our succession risks. If our recruitment and retention programs (including compensation programs) are not viewed as competitive, or we fail to develop and implement appropriate succession plans for key executive positions, our results of operations, as well as our ability to achieve our long-term strategic goals, will be adversely affected.. 11. Table of Contents. We have exposure to Grupo Finmart through promissory notes that we received as part of our divestiture of that business in September 2016. The repayment of those promissory notes was restructured in September 2017. Our ability to recover the amounts owed under those promissory notes is heavily dependent on the success and performance of Grupo Finmart and its parent company, AlphaCredit.. In connection with the completion of the sale of Grupo Finmart to Alpha Holding, S.A. de C.V. (\"AlphaCredit\") in September 2016, we received two \"Parent Loan Notes\" in the original principal amount of $60.2 million. We recently restructured the repayment arrangements with respect to such Parent Loan Notes. See \"Part II, Item 7  -  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Liquidity and Capital Resources  -  Sources and Uses of Cash  -  Sale of Grupo Finmart.\" Under the restructured arrangements, the total principal balance continues to be repayable over the original three-year term, but the payments have been shifted toward the later portions of that term. The payment restructuring was requested by AlphaCredit to accommodate their working capital requirements as they continue to grow their business.. Our ability to recover full payment of the Parent Loan Notes is dependent on the success and performance of the business of Grupo Finmart (as primary obligor) and its parent AlphaCredit (as guarantor). To the extent that Grupo Finmart and AlphaCredit are unable to repay these amounts, our financial performance and cash flows would be adversely affected. Prior to the payment restructuring, Grupo Finmart had already paid us $34 million that was owed to us in connection with the sale transaction.. If our assessment of and expectations concerning various factors affecting the collectability of the Parent Loan Notes change in the future, we may be required to record an allowance for losses or otherwise impair the carrying value of the Parent Loan Notes and associated accrued fees receivable, which could adversely affect our financial performance in the period of recordation or impairment. The Parent Loan Notes were recorded at fair value on the date of the sale of Grupo Finmart, which initially accounted for the risk of default, with an adjustment recorded in September 2017 upon the payment restructuring described above. See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in \"Part II, Item 8  -  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.\". Litigation and regulatory proceedings could have a material adverse impact on our business.. We are currently subject to various litigation and regulatory actions, including those described in Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in \"Part II, Item 8  -  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,\" and additional actions could arise in the future. Potential actions range from claims and assertions arising in the ordinary course of business (such as contract, customer or employment disputes) to more significant corporate-level matters or shareholder litigation. All of these matters are subject to inherent uncertainties, and unfavorable rulings could occur, which could include monetary damages, fines and penalties, or other relief. Any unfavorable ruling or outcome could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or could negatively affect our reputation.. Under our certificate of incorporation, we are generally obligated to indemnify our directors and officers for costs and liabilities they incur in their capacity as directors or officers of the Company. Consequently, if a proceeding names or involves any of our directors or officers, then (subject to certain exceptions) we are generally obligated to pay or reimburse the cost or liability such director or officer incurs as a result of such proceeding (including defense costs, judgments and amounts paid in settlement). We maintain management liability insurance that protects us from much of this potential indemnification exposure, as well as potential costs or liabilities that may be directly incurred by the Company in some cases. However, our insurance coverage is subject to deductibles, and there may be elements of the costs or liabilities that are not covered under the insurance policies. In addition, to the extent that our ultimate liability in any such proceeding (or any combination of proceedings that are included in the same policy year) exceeds the management liability policy limits, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. One person beneficially owns all of our voting stock and controls the outcome of all matters requiring a vote of stockholders, which may influence the value of our publicly-traded non-voting stock.. Phillip E. Cohen is the beneficial owner of all of our Class B Voting Common Stock. As a result of his equity ownership stake, Mr. Cohen controls the outcome of all issues requiring a vote of stockholders and has the ability to appoint or remove directors and officers who control our policies and operations. All of our publicly-traded stock is non-voting stock. Consequently, stockholders other than Mr. Cohen have no vote with respect to the election of directors or any other matter requiring a vote of stockholders except as required by law. This lack of voting rights may adversely affect the market value of our publicly-traded Class A Non-Voting Common Stock (\"Class A Common Stock\").. 12. Table of Contents. Our acquisitions, investments and other transactions could disrupt our ongoing business and harm our results of operations.. In pursuing our business strategy, we routinely conduct discussions, evaluate opportunities and enter into agreements regarding possible acquisitions, investments and other transactions. These transactions may involve significant challenges and risks, including risks that we may not realize the expected return on an acquisition or investment, that we may not be able to retain key personnel of an acquired business, or that we may experience difficulty in integrating acquired businesses into our business systems and processes. If we do enter into agreements with respect to acquisitions, investments or other transactions, we may fail to complete them due to inability to obtain required regulatory or other approvals or other factors. Furthermore, acquisitions, investments and other transactions require substantial management resources and have the potential to divert our attention from our existing business. These factors could harm our business and results of operations.. We recently completed the acquisition of GPMX, a business that owns and operates 112 pawn stores in Latin America (Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras and Peru). Our realization of the expected benefits of that acquisition will be dependent on our ability to timely and efficiently integrate the GPMX business into our operational and financial reporting systems and processes. Our ability to successfully integrate complex, multi-jurisdictional acquisitions is unproven. Our management has spent considerable time and resources in designing an integration plan and is in the early stages of implementing it. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be successful or that we will realize the expected return on the GPMX acquisition.. We have a significant firearms business in the U.S., which exposes us to increased risks of regulatory fines and penalties, lawsuits and related liabilities.. As discussed under \"Part I, Item 1  -  Business  -  Regulation  -  U.S. Regulations  -  Pawn Regulations,\" some of our stores in the U.S. conduct pawn and retail transactions involving firearms, which may be associated with an increased risk of injury and related lawsuits. We may be subject to lawsuits relating to the improper use of firearms that we sell, including actions by persons attempting to recover damages from firearms retailers relating to misuse of firearms. We may also incur fines, penalties or liabilities, or have our federal firearms licenses revoked or suspended, if we fail to properly perform required background checks for, and otherwise record and report, firearms transactions. Any such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition.. Our business is subject to employee and third-party robberies, burglaries and other crimes at the store level.. The nature of our business requires us to maintain significant cash on hand, loan collateral and inventories in our stores. Consequently, we are subject to loss of cash or merchandise as a result of robberies, burglaries, thefts, riots, looting and other criminal activity in our stores. Further, we could be subject to liability to customers or other third parties as a result of such activities. While we maintain asset protection and monitoring programs to mitigate these risks, as well as insurance programs to protect against catastrophic loss or exposure, there can be no assurance that these crimes will not occur or that such losses will not have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations.. We may be exposed to liabilities under applicable anti-corruption, anti-money laundering and other general business laws and regulations, and any determination that we violated these laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We are subject to various anti-corruption laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act in the U.S. and the General Law of Administrative Responsibility in Mexico. We are also subject to various laws and regulations designed to prevent money laundering or the financial support of terrorism or other illegal activity, including the USA PATRIOT Act and the Bank Secrecy Act in the U.S. and The Federal Law for the Prevention and Identification of Transactions with Funds From Illegal Sources in Mexico. See \"Part I, Item 1  -  Business  -  Regulation.\" Further, our business is expanding in countries and regions that are less developed and are generally recognized as potentially more corrupt business environments.. While we maintain controls and policies to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations, these controls and policies may prove to be less than effective. If employees, agents or other persons for whose conduct we are held responsible violate our policies, we may be subject to severe criminal or civil sanctions and penalties, and we may be subject to other liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Changes in our liquidity and capital requirements or in access to capital markets or other financing sources could limit our ability to achieve our plans.. A significant reduction in cash flows from operations or the availability of debt or equity financing could materially and adversely affect our ability to achieve our planned growth and operating results. We have outstanding $195 million aggregate. 13. Table of Contents. principal amount of 2.125% Cash Convertible Senior Notes Due 2019 (the \"2019 Convertible Notes\") and $143.75 million aggregate principal amount of 2.875% Convertible Senior Notes Due 2024 (the \"2024 Convertible Notes\" and, with the 2019 Convertible Notes, the \"Convertible Notes\"). Our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing (including the possible refinancing of the 2019 Convertible Notes) will depend upon market conditions, our financial condition and the willingness of financing sources to make capital available to us at acceptable rates. The inability to access capital at acceptable rates and terms could restrict or limit our ability to achieve our growth objectives, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in competition from various sources could have a material adverse impact on our ability to achieve our plans.. We encounter significant competition from other pawn stores, consumer lending companies and other retailers, many of which have significantly greater financial resources than we do. Increases in the number or size of competitors or other changes in competitive influences, such as aggressive marketing and pricing practices, could adversely affect our operations. In Mexico, we compete directly with certain pawn stores owned and operated by government affiliated or sponsored non-profit foundations, and the government could take actions that would harm our ability to compete in that market.. Our continued profitability and growth plans are dependent on our ability to successfully design or acquire, deploy and maintain information technology and other business systems to support our current business and our planned growth and expansion.. The success of our business depends on the efficiency and reliability of our information technology and business systems, including the point-of-sale system utilized in our store locations. If access to our technology infrastructure is impaired (as may occur with a computer virus, a cyber attack or other intentional disruption by a third party, natural disaster, telecommunications system failure, electrical system failure or lost connectivity), or if there are flaws in the design or roll-out of new or refreshed technology systems (such as our point-of-sale system), we may be unable to process transactions or otherwise carry on our business in a timely and efficient manner. An infrastructure disruption could damage our reputation and cause us to lose customers and revenue.. We collect and store a variety of sensitive customer information, and breaches in data security could harm our business operations and lead to reputational damage.. In the course of conducting our business, we collect and store on our information technology systems a variety of information about our customers, including sensitive personal identifying and financial information. We could be subject to fines, penalties and liabilities if any such information is misappropriated from our systems or we otherwise fail to maintain the security and confidentiality of such information. Further, any such data security breach could cause damage to our reputation and a loss of confidence in our data security measures, which could adversely affect our business and prospects.. We invested in Cash Converters International Limited for strategic reasons and we may not realize a return on our investment.. We currently have a significant investment in Cash Converters International Limited, which is a publicly-traded company based in Australia. We made this investment principally in November 2009, and may in the future make additional investments in this or other companies, to further our strategic objectives. The success of these strategic investments is dependent on a variety of factors, including the business performance of the companies in which we invest and the market's assessment of that performance. If the business performance of Cash Converters International Limited suffers, then the value of our investment may decline. We wrote down a portion of our investment in Cash Converters International Limited during the fourth quarter of both fiscal 2016 and fiscal 2015. See Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in \"Part II, Item 8  -  Financial Statements and Supplemental Data.\" If we determine that any future other-than-temporary declines in the fair value exist, we will be required to write down that investment to its fair value and recognize the related write-down as an investment loss. Any future realized investment loss would adversely affect our results of operations.. We may incur property, casualty or other losses, including losses related to natural disasters such as hurricanes and earthquakes. Not all of such losses will be covered by insurance.. We maintain a program of insurance coverage for various types of property, casualty and other risks. The types and amounts of insurance that we obtain vary from time to time, depending on availability, cost and our decisions with respect to risk retention. The policies are subject to deductibles and exclusions that result in our retention of a level of risk on a self-insurance basis. Losses not covered by insurance could be substantial and may increase our expenses, which could harm our results of operations and financial condition.. 14. Table of Contents. We have significant operations located in areas that are susceptible to hurricanes (notably the Atlantic and Gulf Coast regions of Florida, as well as the Gulf Coast regions of Texas, including Houston), and other areas of our operations are susceptible to other types of natural disasters, such as earthquakes and tornadoes. As noted above, not all physical damage that we incur as a result of any such natural disaster will be covered by insurance due to policy deductibles and risk retentions. In addition, natural disasters could have a significant negative impact on our business beyond physical damage to property, and only limited portions, if any, of those negative impacts will be covered by applicable business interruption insurance policies. As a result, geographically isolated natural disasters could have a material adverse effect on our overall operations and financial performance. For a discussion of the negative impact from recent hurricanes in the U.S. and an earthquake in Mexico, see \"Part II, Item 7  -  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Results of Operations  -  Fiscal 2017 vs. Fiscal 2016  -  Summary Financial Data.\". Events beyond our control could result in business interruption or other adverse effects on our operations and growth.. Our business and operations could be subject to interruption or damage due to inclement weather, natural disaster, power loss, acts of violence, terrorist attacks, war, civil unrest or similar events. Such events could impair our customers' access to our business, impact our ability to expand or continue our operations or otherwise have an adverse effect on our financial condition.. We could be subject to changes in tax rates, the adoption of new tax laws in the U.S. or other countries, or exposure to additional tax liabilities.. We are subject to taxes in the U.S. and several foreign jurisdictions. Current economic and political conditions make tax rates in any of these jurisdictions subject to significant change. Our future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax rates or changes in tax laws or their interpretation.. Goodwill comprises a significant portion of our total assets. We assess goodwill for impairment at least annually, which could result in a material, non-cash write-down and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial conditions.. The carrying value of our goodwill was $255 million, or approximately 25% of our total assets, as of September 30, 2017. In accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification 350-20-35, we test goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite useful life for potential impairment annually, or more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. These events or circumstances could include a significant change in the business climate, a change in strategic direction, legal factors, operating performance indicators, a change in the competitive environment, the sale or disposition of a significant portion of a reporting unit, or future economic factors such as unfavorable changes in the estimated future discounted cash flows of our reporting units. Our annual goodwill impairment test is performed in the fourth quarter utilizing the income approach. This approach uses future cash flows and estimated terminal values for each of our reporting units (discounted using a market participant perspective) to determine the fair value of each reporting unit, which is then compared to the carrying value of the reporting unit to determine if there is an impairment. The income approach includes assumptions about revenue growth rates, operating margins and terminal growth rates discounted by an estimated weighted-average cost of capital derived from other publicly-traded companies that are similar but not identical from an operational and economic standpoint. See Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in \"Part II, Item 8  -  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\" for a discussion of our annual impairment tests performed for goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets during fiscal 2017.. The conversion feature of our Convertible Notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. In the event the conversion feature of our Convertible Notes is triggered, holders will be entitled to convert the notes at any time during specified periods at their option. If one or more holders elect to convert their notes, we may be required, or may choose, to settle the obligation through the payment of cash, which could adversely affect our liquidity. In addition, even if holders do not elect to convert their notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the Convertible Notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which would result in a material reduction of our net working capital.. Conversion of our Convertible Notes into stock may dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders or may otherwise depress the price of our Class A Common Stock.. The conversion Convertible Notes will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders to the extent we deliver shares of Class A Common Stock upon conversion. Any sales in the public market of such shares could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our Class A Common Stock. In addition, the existence of the Convertible Notes may encourage short selling. 15. Table of Contents. by market participants because the conversion of such notes could be used to satisfy short positions, or anticipated conversion of the notes into shares of our Class A Common Stock could depress the price of our Class A Common Stock.. We face other risks discussed under \"Part II, Item 7A  -  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.\""
