[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. The following are certain risk factors that could materially and negatively affect our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.  These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K because these factors could cause our actual results or financial condition to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements.  The risks that are discussed below are not the only ones we face.  If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected.  Additional risks that are not presently known or that we presently deem to be immaterial could also have a material, adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Risks Relating to Economic and Market Conditions. Changes in economic, political, and market conditions may adversely affect our industry and our business.. Our success depends in part on national and local economic, political, and market conditions as well as governmental monetary and other financial policies.  Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, changes in interest rates, money supply, governmental fiscal policies and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our asset quality, deposit levels and loan demand and, therefore, our earnings.  Because we have a significant amount of real estate loans, additional decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure.  Adverse changes in the economy may also have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings.  If during a period of reduced real estate values we are required to liquidate the collateral securing loans to satisfy the debt or to increase our allowance for loan losses, it could materially reduce our profitability and adversely affect our financial condition.  Moreover, the Financial Accounting Standards Board may change its requirements for establishing the loan loss allowance.  The majority of our loans are to individuals and businesses in Northeast Ohio.  Consequently, further significant declines in the economy in the area could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  It is uncertain when the negative credit trends in our market will reverse, and, therefore, future earnings are susceptible to further declining credit conditions in the market in which we operate.. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our income and financial condition.. Our earnings and cash flow are dependent upon our net interest income.  Net interest income is the difference between the interest income generated by our interest-earning assets (consisting primarily of loans and, to a lesser extent, securities) and the interest expense generated by our interest-bearing liabilities (consisting primarily of deposits and wholesale borrowings).  Our level of net interest income is primarily a function of the average balance of our interest-earning assets, the average balance of our interest-bearing liabilities and the spread between the yield on such assets and the cost of such liabilities.  These factors are influenced by both the pricing and mix of our interest-earning assets and our interest-bearing liabilities which, in turn, are impacted by external factors, such as the local economy, competition for loans and deposits, the monetary policy of the Federal Reserve Board and market interest rates.. Interest rates are beyond our control, and they fluctuate in response to general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular, the Federal Reserve Board.  Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence the origination of loans, the purchase of investments, the generation of deposits and the rates received on loans and investment securities and paid on deposits.  While we have taken measures intended to manage the risks of operating in a changing interest rate environment, there can be no assurance that such measures will be effective in avoiding undue interest rate risk.  See additional interest rate risk discussion under the Market Risk section found in Item 7A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. 13. Defaults by another larger financial institution could adversely affect financial markets generally.. The commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships between institutions.  As a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other institutions.  This is sometimes referred to as \"systemic risk\" and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges, with which we and our subsidiaries interact on a daily basis, and therefore could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Business. We extend credit to a variety of customers based on internally set standards and judgment.  We manage credit risk through a program of underwriting standards, the review of certain credit decisions and an on-going process of assessment of the quality of credit already extended.  Our credit standards and on-going process of credit assessment might not protect us from significant credit losses.. We take credit risk by virtue of making loans, extending loan commitments and letters of credit and, to a lesser degree, purchasing non-governmental securities.  Our exposure to credit risk is managed through the use of consistent underwriting standards that emphasize \"in-market\" lending, while avoiding highly leveraged transactions as well as excessive industry and other concentrations.  Our credit administration function employs risk management techniques to ensure that loans adhere to corporate policy and problem loans are promptly identified.  While these procedures are designed to provide us with the information needed to implement policy adjustments where necessary, and to take proactive corrective actions, there can be no assurance that such measures will be effective in avoiding undue credit risk.. We have significant exposure to risks associated with commercial real estate and residential real estate in our primary markets.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 62.2% of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial real estate and residential real estate loans, including real estate development, construction and residential and commercial mortgage loans.  Consequently, real estate-related credit risks are a significant concern for us.  The adverse consequences from real estate-related credit risks tend to be cyclical and are often driven by national economic developments that are not controllable or entirely foreseeable by us or our borrowers.  General difficulties in our real estate markets have recently contributed to increases in our non-performing loans, charge-offs and decreases in our income.. Our business depends significantly on general economic conditions in Ohio.  Accordingly, the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, and the value of the collateral securing such loans, may be significantly affected by economic conditions in the regions we serve or by changes in the local real estate markets.  A significant decline in general economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, unemployment, acts of terrorism or other factors beyond our control could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our indirect lending exposes us to increased credit risks.. A portion of our current lending involves the purchase of consumer automobile installment sales contracts from automobile dealers located in Northeastern Ohio.  These loans are for the purchase of new or late model used cars.  We serve customers over a broad range of creditworthiness, and the required terms and rates are reflective of those risk profiles.  While these loans have higher yields than many of our other loans, such loans involve significant risks in addition to normal credit risk.  Potential risk elements associated with indirect lending include the limited personal contact with the borrower as a result of indirect lending through dealers, the absence of assured continued employment of the borrower, the varying general creditworthiness of the borrower, changes in the local economy and difficulty in monitoring collateral.  While indirect automobile loans are secured, such loans are secured by depreciating assets and characterized by loan to value ratios that could result in us not recovering the full value of an outstanding loan upon default by the borrower.  Delinquencies, charge-offs and repossessions of vehicles in this portfolio are always concerns.  If general economic conditions worsen, we may experience higher levels of delinquencies, repossessions and charge-offs.. 14. Commercial and industrial loans may expose us to greater financial and credit risk than other loans.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 13.9% of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial and industrial loans.  Commercial and industrial loans generally carry larger loan balances and can involve a greater degree of financial and credit risk than other loans.  Any significant failure to pay on time by our customers would hurt our earnings and cause a significant increase in non-performing loans.  The increased financial and credit risk associated with these types of loans are a result of several factors, including the concentration of principal in a limited number of loans and borrowers, the size of loan balances, the effects of general economic conditions on income-producing properties and the increased difficulty of evaluating and monitoring these types of loans.  In addition, when underwriting a commercial or industrial loan, we may take a security interest in commercial real estate, and, in some instances upon a default by the borrower, we may foreclose on and take title to the property, which may lead to potential financial risks.  An increase in non-performing loans could result in a net loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan losses and an increase in loan charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our allowance for loan loss may not be adequate to cover actual future losses.. We maintain an allowance for loan losses to cover current, probable incurred loan losses.  Every loan we make carries a certain risk of non-repayment, and we make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans.  Through a periodic review and consideration of the loan portfolio, management determines the amount of the allowance for loan losses by considering general market conditions, credit quality of the loan portfolio, the collateral supporting the loans and performance of customers relative to their financial obligations with us.  The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, which may be beyond our control, and these losses may exceed current estimates.  We cannot fully predict the amount or timing of losses or whether the loss allowance will be adequate in the future.  If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, which will require additions to the allowance.  Excessive loan losses and significant additions to our allowance for loan losses could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We are subject to certain risks with respect to liquidity.. \"Liquidity\" refers to our ability to generate sufficient cash flows to support our operations and to fulfill our obligations, including commitments to originate loans, to repay our wholesale borrowings and other liabilities and to satisfy the withdrawal of deposits by our customers.  Our primary source of liquidity is our core deposit base, which is raised through our retail branch system.  Core deposits  -  savings and money market accounts, time deposits less than $250 thousand and demand deposits - comprised approximately 96.4% of total deposits at December 31, 2017.  Additional available unused wholesale sources of liquidity include advances from the FHLB, issuances through dealers in the capital markets and access to certificates of deposit issued through brokers.  Liquidity is further provided by unencumbered, or unpledged, investment securities that totaled $123.7 million at December 31, 2017.  An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale or pledging as collateral of loans and other assets could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity.  Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general.  Factors that could negatively affect our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn or negative regulatory action against us.  Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as severe disruption of the financial markets or negative news and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole, as evidenced by recent turmoil in the domestic and worldwide credit markets.. Our business strategy includes continuing our growth plans. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively.. We intend to continue pursuing a profitable growth strategy both within our existing markets and in new markets.  Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in significant growth stages of development.  We cannot assure that we will be able to expand our market. 15. presence in our existing markets or successfully enter new markets or that any such expansion will not adversely affect our results of operations.  Failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, future prospects, financial condition or results of operations and could adversely affect our ability to successfully implement our business strategy.  Also, if we grow more slowly than anticipated, our operating results could be materially adversely affected.. We may experience difficulties in integrating acquired businesses, or acquisitions may not perform as expected.. We completed the acquisition of Monitor in 2017 and Bowers in 2016.  The successful integration of these acquisitions depends on our ability to manage the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses.  Integrating operations is complex and requires significant efforts and expenses.  Potential difficulties we may encounter as part of the integration process include the following:. •  employees may voluntarily or involuntarily exit the Company because of the acquisitions;. •  our management team may have its attention diverted while trying to integrate the acquired companies;. •  we may encounter obstacles when incorporating the acquired operations into our operations;. •  differences in business backgrounds, corporate cultures and management philosophies;. •  potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses;. •  previously undetected operational or other issues; and. •  the acquired operations may not otherwise perform as expected or provide expected results.. Any of these factors could adversely affect each company's ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, employees and other constituencies or our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition or could reduce each company's earnings or otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results after the acquisition.. We may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of acquisitions, which could reduce our anticipated profitability.. We expect that our acquisitions will result in certain synergies, business opportunities and growth prospects, although we may not fully realize these expectations.  Our assumptions underlying estimates of expected cost savings may be inaccurate or general industry and business conditions may deteriorate.  In addition, our growth and operating strategies for acquired businesses may be different from the strategies that the acquired companies pursued.  If these factors limit our ability to integrate or operate the acquired companies successfully or on a timely basis, our expectations of future results of operations, including certain cost savings and synergies expected to result from acquisitions, may not be met.. We may not be able to attract and retain skilled people.. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people.  Competition for the best people in most activities in which we engage can be intense, and we may not be able to retain or hire the people we want or need.  In order to attract and retain qualified employees, we must compensate them at market levels.  If we are unable to continue to attract and retain qualified employees, or do so at rates necessary to maintain our competitive position, our performance, including our competitive position, could suffer, and, in turn, adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 16. Strong competition within our markets could reduce our ability to attract and retain business.. We encounter significant competition from banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, mortgage banks, and other financial service companies in our markets.  Some of our competitors offer a broader range of products and services than we can offer as a result of their size and ability to achieve economies of scale.  Such competition includes major financial companies whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain more numerous banking locations and support extensive promotional and advertising campaigns.  Our ability to maintain our history of strong financial performance and return on investment to shareholders will depend in part on our continued ability to compete successfully in our market.  Our financial performance and return on investment to shareholders also depends on our ability to expand the scope of available financial services to our customers.  In addition to other banks, competitors include securities dealers, brokers, investment advisors and finance and insurance companies.  The increasingly competitive environment is, in part, a result of changes in regulation, changes in technology and product delivery systems and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial service providers.. Consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions.. Technology and other changes are allowing parties to utilize alternative methods to complete financial transactions that historically have involved banks.  For example, consumers can now maintain funds in brokerage accounts or mutual funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits.  Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and/or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks.  The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits.  The loss of these revenue streams and the lower cost deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We are exposed to operational risk.. Similar to any large organization, we are exposed to many types of operational risk, including reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors, including clerical or record-keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems.. Negative public opinion can result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance and acquisitions and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities.  Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to attract and keep customers, and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action.. Given the volume of transactions we process, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully rectified.  Our necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process our transaction volume may further increase the risk that technical system flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect.  We may also be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control (for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages), which may give rise to disruption of service to customers and to financial loss of liability.  We are further exposed to the risk that our external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as we are) and to the risk that our (or our vendors') business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate.. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential customer information, whether through a data breach of our computer systems by cyber-attack or otherwise, could severely harm our business.. As part of our financial institution business, we collect, process and retain sensitive and confidential client and customer information on behalf of our subsidiaries and other third parties.  Despite the security measures we have in place, our facilities and systems, and those of our third-party service providers, may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors or other similar events.  If information security is breached, information could be lost or misappropriated, resulting in. 17. financial loss or costs to us or damages to others.  Any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential customer information, whether by us or by our vendors, could severely damage our reputation, expose us to the risks of litigation and liability, or disrupt our operations, and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  We have not experienced any material loss relating to a cyber-attack or other information security breach, but there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such attacks or attempted breaches, or incur resulting losses, in the future.  Our risks with respect to these threats remains heightened due to the evolving sophistication and frequency of such threats.  As cyber-attacks and other attempted information security threats continue to evolve, we may be required to spend significant additional resources in efforts to modify and enhance our protective measures or in investigating or remediating of security breaches or vulnerabilities.. We depend on our subsidiaries for dividends, distributions and other payments.. As a financial holding company, we are a legal entity separate and distinct from our subsidiaries.  Our principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common shares is dividends from these subsidiaries.  Federal and state statutory provisions and regulations limit the amount of dividends that our banking and other subsidiaries may pay to us without regulatory approval.  In the event our subsidiaries become unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to pay dividends on our outstanding common shares.  Accordingly, our inability to receive dividends from our subsidiaries could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Further discussion of our ability to pay dividends can be found under the caption \"Dividends and Transactions with Affiliates\" in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. We may elect or be compelled to seek additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed.. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations.  Federal banking agencies have proposed extensive changes to their capital requirements, including raising required amounts and eliminating the inclusion of certain instruments from the calculation of capital.  The final form of such regulations and their impact on the Company is unknown at this time, but may require us to raise additional capital.  In addition, we may elect to raise capital to support our business or to finance acquisitions, if any, or for other anticipated reasons.  Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on financial performance, conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, including the satisfaction or release of preemptive rights in the event of a common share offering, many of which are outside our control.  Therefore, there can be no assurance additional capital can be raised when needed or that capital can be raised on acceptable terms.  Impairment to our ability to raise capital may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Risks Related to the Legal and Regulatory Environment. Increases in FDIC insurance premiums may have a material adverse effect on our earnings.. The FDIC maintains the Deposit Insurance Fund to resolve the cost of bank failures.  Since late 2008, the FDIC has taken various actions intended to maintain a strong funding position and restore reserve ratios of the Deposit Insurance Fund.  Those actions included increasing assessment rates for all insured institutions, requiring riskier institutions to pay a larger share of premiums by factoring in rate adjustments based on secured liabilities and unsecured debt levels, and imposing special assessments.  In addition, in 2011 the FDIC approved a final rule that changed the deposit insurance assessment base and assessment rate schedule, adopted a new large-bank pricing assessment scheme and set a target size for the Deposit Insurance Fund.  The rule, as mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act, finalized a target size for the Deposit Insurance Fund at 2 percent of insured deposits.  The FDIC recently adopted rules revising assessments in a manner that benefits banks with assets of less than $10 billion, although there can be no assurance that such assessments will not change in the future.. 18. We have a limited ability to control the amount of premiums we are required to pay for FDIC insurance.  If there are additional financial institution failures or other significant legislative or regulatory changes, the FDIC may be required to increase assessment rates or take actions similar to those taken after 2008.  Increases in FDIC insurance assessment rates may materially adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to continue to pay dividends on our common shares at the current rate or at all.. Legislative or regulatory changes or actions, or significant litigation, could adversely impact us or the businesses in which we are engaged.. The financial services industry is extensively regulated.  We are subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision and legislation that govern almost all aspects of our operations.  Laws and regulations may change from time to time and are primarily intended for the protection of consumers, depositors and the Deposit Insurance Fund, and not to benefit our shareholders.  The impact of any changes to laws and regulations or other actions by regulatory agencies may negatively impact us or our ability to increase the value of our business.  Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of an institution, the classification of assets by an institution and the adequacy of an institution's allowance for loan losses.  Additionally, actions by regulatory agencies or significant litigation against us could cause us to devote significant time and resources to defending our business and may lead to penalties that materially affect us and our shareholders.. In addition to laws, regulations and actions directed at the operations of banks, proposals to reform the housing finance market consider winding down Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which could negatively affect our sales of loans.. Even a reduction in regulatory restrictions could adversely affect our operations and our shareholders if less restrictive regulation increases competition within the industry generally or within our markets.. Our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity may be adversely impacted by issues arising in foreclosure practices, including delays in the foreclosure process, related to certain industry deficiencies, as well as potential losses in connection with actual or projected repurchases and indemnification payments related to mortgages sold into the secondary market.. Previous announcements of deficiencies in foreclosure documentation by several large seller/servicer financial institutions have raised various concerns relating to mortgage foreclosure practices.  The integrity of the foreclosure process is important to our business, as an originator and servicer of residential mortgages.  As a result of our continued focus of concentrating our lending efforts in our primary markets in Ohio, as well as servicing loans for the Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae) and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (Freddie Mac), we do not anticipate suspending any of our foreclosure activities.  We previously reviewed our foreclosure procedures and concluded they are generally conservative in nature and do not present the significant documentation deficiencies underlying other industry foreclosure problems.  Nevertheless, we could face delays and challenges in the foreclosure process arising from claims relating to industry practices generally, which could adversely affect recoveries and our financial results, whether through increased expenses of litigation and property maintenance, deteriorating values of underlying mortgaged properties or unsuccessful litigation results generally.. In addition, in connection with the origination and sale of residential mortgages into the secondary market, we make certain representations and warranties, which, if breached, may require us to repurchase such loans, substitute other loans or indemnify the purchasers of such loans for actual losses incurred in respect of such loans.  Although we believe that our mortgage documentation and procedures have been appropriate and are generally conservative in nature, it is possible that we will receive repurchase requests in the future and we may not be able to reach favorable settlements with respect to such requests.  It is therefore possible that we may increase our reserves or may sustain losses associated with such loan repurchases and indemnification payments.. 19. Environmental liability associated with commercial lending could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property.  During the ordinary course of business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans.  In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties.  If hazardous or toxic substances are found, we may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage.  In addition, we own and operate certain properties that may be subject to similar environmental liability risks.. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property's value or limit our ability to use or sell the affected property.  In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability.  Although we have policies and procedures requiring the performance of an environmental site assessment before initiating any foreclosure action on real property, these assessments may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards.  The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Impairment of investment securities, goodwill, other intangible assets, or deferred tax assets could require charges to earnings, which could result in a negative impact on our results of operations.. In assessing the impairment of investment securities, we consider the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than cost, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuers, whether the market decline was affected by macroeconomic conditions and whether we have the intent to sell the debt security or will be required to sell the debt security before its anticipated recovery.  Under current accounting standards, goodwill and certain other intangible assets with indeterminate lives are no longer amortized but, instead, are assessed for impairment periodically or when impairment indicators are present.  Assessment of goodwill and such other intangible assets could result in circumstances where the applicable intangible asset is deemed to be impaired for accounting purposes.  Under such circumstances, the intangible asset's impairment would be reflected as a charge to earnings in the period.  Deferred tax assets are only recognized to the extent it is more likely than not they will be realized.  Should management determine it is not more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will be realized, a valuation allowance with a change to earnings would be reflected in the period.  This was realized as a result of the enactment on December 22, 2017, of H.R.1, known as the \"Tax Cuts and Jobs Act\" which, among other things, reduced the corporate income tax rate to 21% effective January 1, 2018.  As a result of passage of the new tax law, Farmers completed a revaluation of its net deferred tax assets.  The Company's deferred tax assets, net of deferred tax liabilities, represent corporate tax benefits anticipated to be realized in the future.  The reduction in the federal corporate tax rate, effective January 1, 2018, reduces these benefits.  Farmers determined that its net deferred tax assets would be reduced by approximately $1.8 million in the fourth quarter of 2017, representing an impact on earnings per share of approximately $0.06 per diluted share based fourth quarter weighted average diluted shares outstanding of approximately 27.5 million.. Changes and uncertainty in tax laws, including the recently enacted Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, could adversely affect our performance.. We are subject to extensive federal, state and local taxes, including income, excise, sales/use, payroll, financial institutions tax, withholding and ad valorem taxes.  Changes to our taxes could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and, as described in the above risk discussion and below, the fair value of net deferred tax assets.  In addition, our customers are subject to a wide variety of federal, state and local taxes.  Changes in taxes paid by our customers may adversely affect their ability to purchase homes or consumer products, which could adversely affect their demand for our loans and deposit products.  In addition, such negative effects on our customers could result in defaults on the loans we have made and decrease the value of mortgage-backed securities in which we have invested.. 20. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, among other changes, imposes additional limitations on the federal income tax deductions individual taxpayers may take for mortgage loan interest payments and for payments of state and local taxes, including real property taxes.  The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act also imposes additional limitations on the deductibility of business interest expense and eliminates other deductions in their entirety, including deductions for certain home equity loan interest payments.  Such limits and eliminations may result in customer defaults on loans we have made and decrease the value of mortgage-backed securities in which we have invested.. Anti-takeover provisions could delay or prevent an acquisition or change in control by a third party.. Provisions of the Ohio General Corporation Law, our Amended Articles of Incorporation, and our Amended Code of Regulations, including a staggered board and supermajority voting requirements, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us or could have the effect of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire control of us.. We may be a defendant from time to time in the future in a variety of litigation and other actions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We and our subsidiaries may be involved from time to time in the future in a variety of litigation arising out of our business.  Our insurance may not cover all claims that may be asserted against us, and any claims asserted against us, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may harm our reputation.  Should the ultimate judgments or settlements in any litigation exceed our insurance coverage, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  In addition, we may not be able to obtain appropriate types or levels of insurance in the future, nor may we be able to obtain adequate replacement policies with acceptable terms, if at all."
