[1] "ITEM 1a. RISK FACTORS. Significant Competition from an Array of Financial Service Providers. Our ability to achieve strong financial performance and a satisfactory return on investment to shareholders will depend in part on our ability to expand our available financial services. In addition to the challenge of attracting and retaining customers for traditional banking services, our competitors now include securities dealers, brokers, mortgage bankers, investment advisors and finance and insurance companies who seek to offer one-stop financial services to their customers that may include services that banks have not been able or allowed to offer to their customers in the past. The increasingly competitive environment is a result primarily of changes in regulation, changes in technology and product delivery systems and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial services providers. If we fail to adequately address each of the competitive pressures in the banking industry, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. 11. Table of Contents. Credit Risk. The risk of nonpayment of loans is inherent in commercial banking. Such nonpayment could have an adverse effect on the Company's earnings and our overall financial condition as well as the value of our common stock. Management attempts to reduce the Bank's credit exposure by carefully monitoring the concentration of its loans within specific industries and through the loan approval process. However, there can be no assurance that such monitoring and procedures will totally mitigate the risks. Credit losses can cause insolvency and failure of a financial institution and, in such event, its shareholders could lose their entire investment. For more information on the exposure of the Company and the Bank to credit risk, see the section under Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K captioned \"Loan Portfolio.\". Our loan portfolio has a large concentration of real estate loans. Real estate loans, which constitute a large portion of our loan portfolio, include home equity, commercial, construction and residential loans, and such loans are concentrated in the Bank's primary markets in northwest Ohio and Northeast Indiana. The market value of real estate can fluctuate significantly in a short period of time as a result of market conditions in the geographic area in which the real estate is located. Adverse developments affecting real estate values in our market could increase the credit risk associated with our loan portfolio. Also, real estate lending typically involves higher loan principal amounts and the repayment of the loans generally is dependent, in large part, on sufficient income from the properties securing the loans to cover operating expenses and debt service. Economic events or governmental regulations outside of the control of the borrower could negatively impact the future cash flow and market values of the affected properties.. If the loans that are collateralized by real estate become troubled during a time when market conditions are declining or have declined, then we may not be able to realize the amount of security that we anticipated at the time of originating the loan, which could cause us to increase our provision for loan losses and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. Our real estate loans also include construction loans, including land acquisition and development. Construction, land acquisition and development lending involve additional risks because funds are advanced based upon estimates of costs and the estimated value of the completed project. Because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs, as well as the market value of the completed project and the effects of governmental regulation on real property, it is relatively difficult to evaluate accurately the total funds required to complete a project and the related loan-to-value ratio. As a result, commercial construction loans often involve the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment dependent, in part, on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor to repay principal and interest. If our appraisal of the value of the completed project proves to be overstated, we may have inadequate security for the repayment of the loan upon completion of construction of the project.. Payments on agricultural real estate loans are dependent on the profitable operation or management of the farm property securing the loan. The success of the farm may be affected by many factors outside the control of the borrower, including adverse weather conditions that prevent the planting of a crop or limit crop yields (such as hail, drought and floods), loss of livestock due to disease or other factors, declines in market prices for agricultural products (both domestically and internationally) and the impact of government regulations (including changes in price supports, subsidies and environmental regulations). In addition, many farms are dependent on a limited number of key individuals whose injury or death may significantly affect the successful operation of the farm. If the cash flow from a farming operation is diminished, the borrower's ability to repay the loan may be impaired. The primary crops in our market areas are corn, wheat and soybeans. Accordingly, adverse circumstances affecting these crops could have an adverse effect on our agricultural real estate loan portfolio.. Commercial loans make up a significant portion of our loan portfolio. Our commercial loans are primarily made based on the identified cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower. Repayment of our commercial loans is often dependent on the cash flows of the borrower, which may be unpredictable. Most often, this collateral is accounts receivable, inventory, machinery or real estate. In the case of loans secured by accounts receivable, the availability of funds for the repayment of these loans may be substantially dependent on the ability of the borrower to collect amounts due from its customers. The other types of collateral securing these loans may depreciate over time, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value based on the success of the business.. 12. Table of Contents. We also originate agricultural operating loans. As with agricultural real estate loans, the repayment of operating loans is dependent on the successful operation or management of the farm property. Likewise, agricultural operating loans involve a greater degree of risk than lending on residential properties, particularly in the case of loans that are unsecured or secured by rapidly depreciating assets such as farm equipment or assets such as livestock or crops. The primary livestock in our market areas is hogs. In these cases, any repossessed collateral for a defaulted loan may not provide an adequate source of repayment of the outstanding loan balance as a result of the greater likelihood of damage, loss or depreciation. The majority of our agricultural customers utilize crop insurance to mitigate the possibility of a large loss within one year on their grain operations. Crop insurance can be structured to be triggered by different factors and claim payment may also be customized, such as based on harvest yields, income generation. Farmers may also use hedging techniques to lock in crop prices, input costs for future production.. Susceptibility to Changes in Regulation. Any changes to state and federal banking laws and regulations may negatively impact our ability to expand services and to increase the value of our business. We are subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision, and legislation that govern almost all aspects of our operations. These laws may change from time to time and are primarily intended for the protection of consumers, depositors and the deposit insurance funds. In addition, the Company's earnings are affected by the monetary policies of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve. These policies, which include regulating the national supply of bank reserves and bank credit, can have a major effect upon the source and cost of funds and the rates of return earned on loans and investments. The Federal Reserve influences the size and distribution of bank reserves through its open market operations and changes in cash reserve requirements against member bank deposits. We cannot predict what effect any presently contemplated or future changes in the laws or regulations or their interpretations would have on us, but such changes could be materially adverse to our financial performance. For more information on this subject, see the section under Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K captioned \"Supervision and Regulation.\". Interest Rate Risk. Changes in interest rates affect our operating performance and financial condition in diverse ways. Our profitability depends in substantial part on our \"net interest spread,\" which is the difference between the rates we receive on loans and investments and the rates we pay for deposits and other sources of funds. Our net interest spread will depend on many factors that are partly or entirely outside our control, including competition, federal economic, monetary and fiscal policies, and economic conditions generally. Historically, net interest spreads for other financial institutions have widened and narrowed in response to these and other factors, which are often collectively referred to as \"interest rate risk.\" After many years of a low and flat rate environment, the Federal Reserve began increasing the Federal Funds rate in 2015. The Company did not experience improvement in its asset yield on loans until such time that the rate increases enabled the loan rates to rise above the floors which had been on the majority of the variable rate loans. During 2017, the increasing rates having reached over 100 basis points, triggered rate changes above the floors and the Company experienced improvement in the interest spread. The improvement in the net interest spread during 2016 and the first half of 2017 directly correlated to the improvement of the Bank's loan to asset ratio.. The Bank manages interest rate risk within an overall asset/liability framework. The principal objectives of asset/liability management are to manage sensitivity of net interest spreads and net interest income to potential changes in interest rates. Funding positions are kept within predetermined limits designed to ensure that risk-taking is not excessive and that liquidity is properly managed. In the event that our asset/liabilities management strategies are unsuccessful, our profitability may be adversely affected. For more information regarding the Company's exposure to interest rate risk, see Part II, Item 7A of this Form 10-K.. Attraction and Retention of Key Personnel. Our success depends upon the continued service of our senior management team and upon our ability to attract and retain qualified financial services personnel. Competition for qualified employees is intense. In our experience, it can take a significant period of time to identify and hire personnel with the combination of skills and attributes required in carrying out our strategy. If we lose the services of our key personnel or are unable to attract additional qualified personnel, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected.. A key component of employee retention is providing a fair compensation base combined with the opportunity for additional compensation for above average performance. In this regard, the Company and the Bank use two. 13. Table of Contents. incentive programs. The Company uses a stock award program to recognize and incentivize officers of the Bank. Under the long-term incentive compensation plan, restricted stock awards may be granted to officers. The amount of shares to be granted each year is determined by the Board Compensation Committee and may vary each year in its amount of shares and the number of recipients. The Compensation Committee determines the number of shares to be awarded overall and to the Chief Executive Officer (\"CEO\") specifically. The CEO then makes recommendations to the committee as to the recipients of the remaining shares. The full Board of Directors approves the action of the Committee. Since the plan's inception in 2005, all granted stock awards have utilized a three year cliff vesting feature. This is viewed as a retention aid as the awards may be forfeited should an officer leave employment during the vesting period.. A second incentive program of the Bank is based on cash compensation of which almost all employees participate (excluding commission based employees and other employees paid for specific higher paid positions, such as peak time). A discussion of executive officer pay is incorporated within the proxy and as such, this discussion will pertain to all other employees. Non-officer employees are paid a cash incentive based on the projected overall performance of the Bank in terms of Return of Average Assets (\"ROA\"). The Compensation Committee determines the target performance levels on which the percentage of pay will be based. The Committee takes into account the five and ten year trend of ROA along with budget forecasted for the next year and the Bank's past year performance. The Committee also considers the predicted banking environment under which the Bank will be operating. With the formation of the Captive, the ROA goal has been exclusive of the effect of the additional insurance expense at the Bank level. Non-officers receive incentive pay in December of the same year based on the year-to-date base compensation through the last pay received in November.. Officers, other than executive officers, receive incentive pay based on additional criterion. The officers are rewarded based on overall ROA of the Bank along with individual pre-established goals. Officers, therefore, have incentive pay at risk for individual performance. The individualized goals are recommended by each officer's supervisor and are approved by an incentive committee of the Bank. The goals are designed to improve the performance of the Bank while also limiting the risk of a short-term performance focus. For example, a lending officer may be given two goals of which one is to grow loans within specific targets and another is tied to a specific level of past dues and charge-offs. The second goal limits the ability to be rewarded for growth at all costs along with the specific target levels within the growth goal itself. Officers in a support department may be given goals which create efficiencies, ensure compliance with procedures, or generate new fee or product opportunities. On average, three to four goals were given to each officer in 2017. Officers are paid cash incentives based on the year-end ROA of the Bank and receive it within the first quarter of the following year. Should the ROA be forecasted to be positive but below the base target set by the Board, the officers are paid an incentive under the same basis and timing as non-officers disclosed above.. The percentages of base pay on which the incentive is calculated graduates higher as does the responsibility level of the employee and their ability to impact the financial performance of the Bank. These percentages are recommended by management to the Compensation Committee and Board for approval. The cash incentive plan along with its targets and goals are subject to modification at the Compensation Committee and Board's discretion throughout each year.. Dividend Payout Restrictions. We currently pay a quarterly dividend on our common shares. However, there is no assurance that we will be able to pay dividends in the future. Dividends are subject to determination and declaration by our Board of Directors, which takes into account many factors. The declaration of dividends by us on our common stock is subject to the discretion of our Board and to applicable state and federal regulatory limitations. The Company may receive dividends from the Bank which is subject to restrictions and limitations in the amount and timing of the dividends it may pay to the Company. The Bank has been declaring additional dividends each quarter to provide this liquidity to the Company. The Captive also upstreams dividends to the Company when reserve levels are adequately provided for and may not exceed the net income of the prior twelve months.. Anti-Takeover Provisions. Provisions of our Articles of Incorporation and Ohio law could have the effect of discouraging takeover attempts which certain stockholders might deem to be in their interest. These anti-takeover provisions may make us a less attractive target for a takeover bid or merger, potentially depriving shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares of common stock at a premium over prevailing market prices as a result of a takeover bid or merger.. 14. Table of Contents. Technological Change. Our industry is susceptible to significant technological changes in the future as there continue to be a high level of new technology driven products and services introduced. Technological advancement aids the Company in providing customer service and increases efficiency. Our national competitors have more resources to invest in technological changes and associated required resources. As a result they may be able to offer products and services that are more technologically advanced and that may put us at a competitive disadvantage. Our future depends on our ability to analyze technological changes to determine the best course of action for our business, customers and shareholders.. Operational Risks. We are subject to certain operational risks, including, but not limited to, data processing system failures and errors, customer or employee fraud and catastrophic failures resulting from terrorist acts or natural disasters. We maintain a system of internal controls to mitigate against such occurrences and maintain insurance coverage for such risks that are insurable, but should such an event occur that is not prevented or detected by our internal controls, uninsured or in excess of applicable insurance limits, it could have a significant adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. In addition, our operations are dependent on our ability to process financial transactions in a secure manner. Failure in or breach of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of our third party vendors and other service providers could disrupt our businesses or the businesses of our customers, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and cause losses. We must ensure that information is properly protected from a variety of threats such as cyber-attacks, error, fraud, sabotage, terrorism, industrial espionage, privacy violation, service interruption, and natural disaster. The Company, with the assistance of third-party service providers, intends to continue to implement security technology and establish procedures to maintain network security, but there is no assurance that these measures will be successful. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. Any activity that jeopardizes our network and the security of the information stored on our network may result in significant cost to the Company and have a significant negative effect on our reputation.. Limited Trading Market. The Company has its shares of stock listed and traded on the NASDAQ Capital Market. The Company's trading symbol is \"FMAO.\""
