[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.. The statements under this heading describe the most significant risks to our business identified by management and should be considered carefully in conjunction with the discussion in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K before deciding to invest in, or retain, shares of our common stock.. Any of the following risks and uncertainties could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, liquidity, and financial condition. These are not the only risks we face. Our operations could also be affected by additional factors that are not presently known by us or by factors that we currently do not consider material to our business.. Competitors may develop products that make our products obsolete or less competitive.. The CAM2 market is characterized by rapid technological change. Competitors may develop new or improved products, processes or technologies that may make our products obsolete or less competitive.. As a result, our success depends, in part, on our ability to maintain our technological advantage by developing new products and applications and enhancing our existing products, which can be complex and time-consuming and require substantial investment. Significant delays in new product releases or difficulties in developing new products could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to adapt to evolving markets and technologies or maintain our technological advantage.. Our financial performance is dependent on the conditions of various industries, including the automotive, aerospace, and heavy equipment industries, which have from time to time experienced, and may again experience, significant disruptions in the economic environment.. A significant portion of our sales are to manufacturers in the automotive, aerospace, and heavy equipment industries.  We are dependent upon the continued viability and financial stability of our customers in these industries, which are highly cyclical and dependent upon the general health of the economy and consumer spending.. Because a significant portion of our revenues and expenses are denominated in foreign currencies, we face significant exposure to foreign exchange rate risk.. Our results of operations are affected by fluctuations in exchange rates, which has caused, and may continue to cause, significant fluctuations in our quarterly and annual results of operations. Fluctuations in exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and could result in potentially significant foreign exchange gains and losses. To the extent that the percentage of our non-U.S. dollar revenues derived from international sales increases in the future, our exposure to risks associated with fluctuations in foreign exchange rates will increase.. Product failures or product availability and performance issues could result in increased warranty costs and delays in new product introductions and enhancements, and could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. We regularly introduce new products and enhance existing products. The impact of new product introductions, including the costs associated with new product introductions, such as product development, marketing, assembly line start-up costs and low introductory period production volumes, and manufacturing inefficiencies associated with new product introductions could have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Failures in, or performance issues impacting, our new or existing products could result in increased warranty costs, delays in new product introductions or existing product enhancements, and a loss of sales and customers, which would have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. The supply of raw materials for a new or existing product could be delayed or constrained, or a key vendor could delay shipments, which may decrease product availability, causing a loss of sales and customers.. Our growth depends on the ability of our products to attain broad market acceptance.. The market for traditional fixed-base CMMs, check fixtures, handheld measurement tools, and surveying equipment is mature. Part of our strategy is to continue to displace these traditional measurement devices. Displacing traditional measurement devices and achieving broad market acceptance for our products requires significant effort to convince customers to reevaluate their historical measurement procedures and methodologies.. 11. Table of Contents. The potential size and growth rate of the CAM2 market is uncertain and difficult to quantify. If the CAM2 market does not continue to expand or does not expand as quickly as we anticipate, we may not be able to grow our sales, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We market eight closely interdependent products (FaroArm®, FARO ScanArm®, FARO Gage, FARO Laser Tracker\231, FARO Laser Projector, FARO Cobalt Array Imager, FARO Focus and FARO Scanner Freestyle3DX) and related software for use in measurement, inspection, and high density surveying applications. Substantially all of our revenues are currently derived from sales of these products and software, and we plan to continue our business strategy of focusing on the software-driven, 3D measurement and inspection market. Consequently, our financial performance will depend, in large part, on computer-based measurement, inspection and high density surveying products achieving broad market acceptance. If our products cannot attain broad market acceptance, we will not grow as anticipated and may be required to make increased expenditures on research and development for new applications or new products.. We may not be able to identify or consummate acquisitions or achieve expected benefits from or effectively integrate acquisitions, which could harm our growth.. Our growth strategy partly depends on our ability to obtain additional technologies, complementary product lines and sales channels through selective acquisitions and strategic investments. We may not be able to identify and successfully negotiate suitable acquisitions, obtain financing for future acquisitions, if necessary, on satisfactory terms or otherwise complete acquisitions in the future. In the past, we have used our stock as consideration for acquisitions. Our common stock may not remain at a price at which it can be used as consideration for acquisitions without diluting our existing shareholders, and potential acquisition candidates may not view our stock attractively.. In addition, realization of the benefits of acquisitions often requires integration of some or all of the sales and marketing, distribution, manufacturing, engineering, software development, customer service, finance and administrative organizations of the acquired companies. The integration of acquisitions demands substantial attention from senior management and the management of the acquired companies. Our recent acquisitions and any future acquisitions may be subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties including:. • the inability to assimilate effectively the operations, products, technologies and personnel of the acquired companies (some of which may be located in diverse geographic regions);. • the inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies;. • the need or obligation to divest portions of the acquired companies; and. • the potential impairment of relationships with customers.. We cannot offer any assurance that we will be able to identify, complete or successfully integrate any suitable acquisitions, that any acquired companies will operate profitably, or that we will realize the expected synergies and other benefits from any acquisition.. The buying process for most of our customers for our measurement products is highly decentralized and typically requires significant time and expense for us to further penetrate the potential market of a specific customer, which may delay our ability to generate additional revenue.. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to further penetrate our customer base. During 2017, approximately 85% of our revenue was attributable to sales to our existing customers. If we are not able to continue to further penetrate our existing customer base, our future sales may decline. However, most of our customers have a decentralized buying process for measurement devices, and we must spend significant time and resources to increase revenues from a specific customer. For example, we may provide products to only one of our customer's manufacturing facilities or for a specific product line within a manufacturing facility. We cannot offer any assurance that we will be able to maintain or increase the amount of sales to our existing customers, which could adversely affect our financial results.. Our failure to attract and retain qualified personnel could lead to a loss of sales or decreased profitability.. The loss of any of our current executive officers, or other key personnel, could adversely affect our sales, profitability or growth. Moreover, we continue to rely, in part, on equity awards to attract and retain qualified personnel, which may result in an increase in compensation expense.. 12. Table of Contents. Any failure to protect our patents and proprietary rights in the United States and foreign countries could adversely affect our revenues.. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to obtain and maintain patents and other proprietary rights protection for our processes and products in the United States and other countries. We also rely upon trade secrets, technical know-how and continuing inventions to maintain our competitive position. We seek to protect our technology and trade secrets, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our employees and contractors. However, our employees may breach these agreements; or our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently discovered by inventors. If we are unable to obtain or maintain protection of our patents, trade secrets and other proprietary rights, we may not be able to prevent third parties from using our proprietary rights, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our patent protection involves complex legal and technical questions. Our patents may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated or circumvented. Further, we may be able to protect our proprietary rights from infringement by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary processes and products are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. Furthermore, others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or design around our patented technologies. Litigation or other proceedings to defend or enforce our intellectual property rights could require us to spend significant time and money, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition.. Claims from others that we infringed on their intellectual property rights may adversely affect our business and financial condition.. From time to time, we receive notices from others claiming that we infringed on their intellectual property rights. Resolving these claims may require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements on unfavorable terms, require us to stop selling or to redesign affected products, or require us to pay damages. In addition, from time to time, we are involved in intellectual property lawsuits. We could, in the future, incur judgments or enter into settlements of lawsuits and claims that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Any litigation or interference proceedings, regardless of their outcome, may be costly and may require significant time and attention of our management and technical personnel.. We may not be able to achieve financial results within our target goals, and our operating results may fluctuate due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control.. Our ability to achieve financial results that are within our goals is subject to a number of factors beyond our control. Moreover, our annual and quarterly operating results have varied significantly in the past and likely will vary significantly in the future. Factors that cause our financial results to fluctuate include, but are not limited to, the following:. • adverse changes in the manufacturing industry and general economic conditions;. • the effectiveness of sales promotions;. • geographic expansion in our regions;. • training and ramp-up time for new sales people;. • investments in strategic sales, product or other initiatives;. • investments in technologies and new products and product enhancements, including costs associated with new development and product introductions, and the timing and market acceptance of new products and product enhancements;. • manufacturing inefficiencies related to new product introductions;. • excess or obsolete inventory, shrinkage or other inventory losses due to product obsolescence, change in demand for our products, scrap or material price changes;. • expansion of our manufacturing capability;. • the size and timing of customer orders, many of which are received towards the end of a quarter;. • the amount of time that it takes to fulfill orders and ship our products;. • the length of our sales cycle to new customers;. • customer order deferrals in anticipation of new products and product enhancements;. • start-up costs and ramp-up time associated with opening new sales offices outside of the United States;. 13. Table of Contents. • variations in our effective income tax rate and difficulty in predicting our effective tax rate on a quarterly and annual basis; and. • litigation and regulatory action brought against us.. Any one or a combination of these factors could adversely affect our annual and quarterly operating results in the future and could cause us to fail to achieve our target financial results.. We compete with manufacturers of measurement systems and traditional measurement devices, many of which have more resources than us and may develop new products and technologies.. Our measurement systems compete in the broad and highly competitive market for measurement devices for manufacturing and industrial applications, which, in addition to portable articulated arms, laser trackers, 3D imaging and laser scanner products, consist of fixed-base CMMs, templates and go/no-go gages, check fixtures, handheld measurement tools, and various categories of surveying equipment. In the FARO Gage product line, we compete with a number of manufacturers of handheld measurement tools and fixed-base CMMs, including some large, well-established companies. In the FaroArm®, FARO ScanArm®, FARO Laser TrackerTM, and FARO Focus product lines, we compete primarily with Hexagon Manufacturing Intelligence, a division of Hexagon AB; Automated Precision Inc.; Artec Europe, S.a.r.l.; Leica Geosystems, Inc., a division of Hexagon AB; and Trimble Inc. In the FARO Cobalt Array Imager product lines, we compete primarily with Carl Zeiss Optotechnik GmbH, GOM GmbH, Hexagon Manufacturing Intelligence, and Nikon Metrology, Inc., a division of Nikon Inc. In the FARO Laser Projector product line, we compete primarily with ViRTEK, a division of Gerber Technology LLC. We also compete in these product lines with a number of other smaller companies. We compete on the basis of technical innovation, product performance, quality and price with respect to all of our products.. We will be required to make continued investments in technology and product development to maintain the technological advantage that we believe we currently have over our competition. Some of our competitors possess substantially greater financial, technical, and marketing resources than we possess. Moreover, we cannot be certain that our technology or our product development efforts will allow us to successfully compete as the industry evolves. As the market for our measurement systems expands, additional competition may emerge and our existing and future competitors may commit more resources to the markets in which we participate. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by pricing strategies pursued by competitors or technological or product developments by competitors.. If we fail to establish and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting, our financial statements could contain a material misstatement, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules promulgated by the SEC, companies are required to conduct a comprehensive evaluation of their internal controls over financial reporting. As part of this process, we are required to document and test our internal controls over financial reporting; management is required to assess and issue a report concerning our internal controls over financial reporting; and our independent registered public accounting firm is required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Our internal controls over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of their inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Even effective internal controls over financial reporting can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. If we fail to adequately establish and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting, our financial statements may contain material misstatements, and we could be required to restate our financial results. This could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, lead to a loss of investor confidence and adversely affect our business, our financial condition, and the trading price of our common stock.. We derive a substantial part of our revenues from our international operations, which are subject to greater volatility and often require more management time and expense to achieve profitability than our domestic operations.. We derive more than half of our revenues from international operations. Our international operations are subject to various risks, including:. • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations;. • political and economic instability;. 14. Table of Contents. • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and laws;. • longer customer payment cycles and difficulty collecting accounts receivable;. • compliance with export and import regulations, including tariffs, and trade restrictions;. • governmental restrictions on the transfer of funds to us from our operations outside the United States; and. • burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and labor practices.. Several of the countries where we operate have emerging or developing economies, which may be subject to greater currency volatility, negative growth, high inflation, limited availability of foreign exchange and other risks. These factors may harm our results of operations and any measures that we may implement to reduce the effect of volatile currencies and other risks of our international operations may not be effective.. Our financial results may be adversely affected by exposure to additional tax liabilities.. As a multinational corporation, we are subject to income tax in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions.  Our effective tax rate is directly impacted by the application of complex tax laws and regulations and is highly dependent upon the geographic mix of our worldwide earnings or losses, the tax regulations in each country or geographic region in which we operate, and the availability of tax credits and loss carry-forwards.  Our provision for income taxes and tax liability in the future could be adversely affected by many factors including, but not limited to, income before taxes being lower than anticipated in countries with lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries with higher statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, and changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles or interpretation of accounting principles. Application of tax laws and regulations is also subject to legal and factual interpretation, judgment, and uncertainty. Further, tax laws are subject to change as a result of changes in fiscal policy and legislation and the evolution of regulations and court rulings.. On December 22, 2017, the United States enacted tax reform legislation commonly known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the \"Tax Cuts Act\"), resulting in significant modifications to existing law. SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin 118 (\"SAB 118\") provides additional clarification regarding the application of Accounting Standards Codification (\"ASC\") Topic 740 in situations where a company does not have the necessary information available, prepared, or analyzed in reasonable detail to complete the accounting for certain income tax effects of the Tax Cuts Act for the reporting period in which the Tax Cuts Act was enacted.  SAB 118 provides for a measurement period beginning in the reporting period that includes the Tax Cuts Act's December 2017 enactment date and ending when we have obtained, prepared, and analyzed the information needed in order to complete the accounting for such income tax effects, but in no circumstances will the measurement period extend beyond one year from the enactment date. Additional work is necessary to perform a more detailed analysis of historical foreign earnings. Upon gathering all necessary data, interpreting any additional guidance from tax authorities, and completing the analysis, our provisional amount will be adjusted in the measurement period allowable in accordance with SAB 118. Our provisional amount relating to the transition tax on the mandatory deemed repatriation of foreign earnings may materially differ upon completing the analysis compared to the amount accrued as of December 31, 2017.. The income and non-income tax regimes we are subject to or operate under may be subject to significant change. Changes in tax laws or tax rulings, or changes in interpretations of existing laws, could materially affect our financial position and results of operations. Certain countries in Europe, as well as a number of other countries and organizations, have recently proposed or recommended changes to existing tax laws that could significantly increase our tax obligations in many countries where we do business or require us to change the manner in which we operate our business. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (\"OECD\") has continued to work on a Base Erosion and Profit Sharing (\"BEPS\") initiative. In 2015, the OECD issued initial guidelines and proposals that may change various aspects of the existing framework under which our tax obligations are determined in many of the countries in which we do business. As BEPS guidance is further released, legislative changes may result that could potentially impact the recorded amounts of our deferred tax assets, deferred tax liabilities and our effective tax rate. The European Commission has conducted investigations in multiple countries focusing on whether local country tax rulings or tax legislation provides preferential tax treatment that violates European Union state aid rules and concluded that certain countries, including Ireland, have provided illegal state aid in certain cases. These investigations may result in changes to the tax treatment of our foreign operations.. 15. Table of Contents. Implementation of the United Kingdom's (\"UK\") exit from European Union membership could adversely impact our business.. On June 23, 2016, the UK held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the European Union.  In March 2017, the UK invoked Article 50 of the Treaty on European Union, which triggered a two-year period, subject to extension by unanimous consent of the European Union member states, during which the UK government will negotiate its withdrawal agreement with the European Union.  Although it is unknown what the terms of the UK's future relationship with the European Union will be after the UK's exit from European Union membership, it is possible that there will be greater restrictions on imports and exports between the UK and European Union members, including, without limitation, the imposition of tariffs, and increased regulatory complexities. Any of these factors could adversely affect our business and operating results by adversely affecting customer demand and our relationships with customers in the UK and the European Union.. Reductions in defense spending could adversely affect our business.. Certain of our customers operate in the defense sector and depend significantly on U.S. government spending. In August 2011, Congress enacted the Budget Control Act of 2011, which imposed spending caps and certain reductions in defense spending through 2021. Automatic spending reductions, referred to as sequestration, were implemented in March 2013. Ongoing budgetary discussions in the federal government may result in other cuts to defense spending. Reductions in defense spending that impact the aerospace and defense industries, or uncertainty regarding future levels of government expenditures, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. We are subject to the impact of governmental and other similar certification processes and regulations, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Our operations are subject to numerous governmental laws and regulations, including those governing antitrust and competition, the environment, collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of covered electronic products and components, import and export of products, currency conversions and repatriation, taxation of foreign earnings and earnings of expatriate personnel, and use of local employees and suppliers. An inability to comply with these regulations or obtain any necessary certifications in a timely manner could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Manufacturers of electrical goods are subject to the European Union's RoHS2 and WEEE directives, which took effect during 2006. RoHS2 prohibits the use of lead, mercury and certain other specified substances in electronics products, and WEEE makes producers of electrical goods financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment, and disposal of covered electronic products and components. While we currently hold WEEE registration and are in compliance with the directives of the European Union, including the RoHS2 directive, parallel initiatives are being proposed in other jurisdictions, including several states in the United States and China. If we do not comply with any such initiatives, our sales and results of operations could be materially impacted.. Any failure to comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or similar anti-corruption laws could subject us to fines and penalties.. In 2012, our monitorship expired pursuant to our settlement with the SEC and the United States Department of Justice, or DOJ, concerning certain payments made by our subsidiary in China that may have violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, and other applicable laws. We are, of course, still subject to such laws and have adopted and maintain a compliance program designed to ensure compliance with these laws; however, in light of our prior conduct, any future failure to comply with any such continuing obligations could result in the SEC and the DOJ aggressively seeking to impose penalties against us. In addition, many countries in which we operate have increased regulation regarding anti-corruption practices generally. Compliance with such regulations could be costly and could adversely impact our results of operations or delay entry into new markets.. We may face difficulties managing the effects of any future growth.. If our business grows rapidly in the future, we expect it to result in:. • increased complexity;. • increased responsibility for existing and new management personnel; and. • incremental strain on our operations and financial and management systems.. 16. Table of Contents. If we are not able to manage the effects of any future growth, our business, financial condition and operating results may be harmed.. Our dependence on suppliers for materials could impair our ability to manufacture our products.. Outside vendors provide key components used in the manufacture of our products. Any supply interruption in a limited source component would hinder our ability to manufacture our products until a new source of supply is identified. In addition, an uncorrected defect or supplier's variation in a component, either known or unknown, or incompatibility with our manufacturing processes could hinder our ability to manufacture our products. We may not be able to find a sufficient alternative supplier in a reasonable period of time, or on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we fail to obtain a supplier for the manufacture of components of our potential products, we may experience delays or interruptions in our operations, which would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. A valuation allowance may be required for our U.S. deferred tax assets, which may reduce our earnings and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our balance sheet includes $15.6 million in deferred tax assets. Approximately half of that amount relates to U.S. deferred tax assets. On a quarterly basis, we assess our ability to realize our deferred tax assets to ensure no valuation allowance is required. The ultimate realization of our U.S. deferred tax assets is dependent upon our ability to generate future U.S. taxable income during the periods in which those deferred tax assets would be deductible. Our inability to realize our U.S. deferred tax assets may reduce our earnings and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  Based on an evaluation we conducted, we determined that it was not necessary to establish a valuation allowance against any of our U.S. deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2017.  However, we will continue to monitor whether a valuation allowance is necessary, and if we are required to establish a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Risks generally associated with our information systems could adversely affect our business reputation and results of operations.. We rely on our information systems to obtain, rapidly process, analyze and manage data to, among other things:. • facilitate the purchase and distribution of thousands of inventory items;. • receive, process and ship orders on a timely basis;. • accurately bill and collect from customers;. • process payments to suppliers and employees; and. • summarize results and manage our business.. Our primary and back-up computer systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunication failures, computer viruses, security breaches, natural disasters and errors by employees. Though losses arising from some of these issues would be covered by insurance, interruptions of our critical business computer systems or failure of our back-up systems could lead to a loss of sales or decreased profitability.. A cyberattack or security breach of our systems may compromise the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of our internal data and the availability of our products and websites designed to support our customers or their data. Computer hackers, foreign governments or cyber terrorists may attempt to penetrate our network security and our website. Unauthorized access to our proprietary business information or customer data may be obtained through break-ins, sabotage, breach of our secure network by an unauthorized party, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks, employee theft or misuse or other misconduct. Because the techniques used by computer programmers who may attempt to penetrate and sabotage our network security or our website change frequently and may not be recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques. It is also possible that unauthorized access to customer data may be obtained through inadequate use of security controls by customers, suppliers or other vendors. Any security breach, cyberattack or cyber security breach, and any incident involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of, or access to, sensitive or confidential customer information, whether involving us or involving one of our vendors, could require us to expend significant resources to remediate any damage, could interrupt our operations and damage our reputation, and could also result in regulatory enforcement actions, material fines and penalties, litigation or other actions which could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation and results of operations.. 17. Table of Contents. We are subject to risks of natural disasters.. The occurrence of one or more natural disasters, such as tornadoes, hurricanes, earthquakes, floods and other forms of severe weather where we have a manufacturing facility could result in physical damage to, and complete or partial closure of, our manufacturing facilities, which could adversely affect our business, operations and financial performance. Interruptions in our manufacturing operations or damage to our manufacturing facilities could reduce our revenues and increase our costs, and the extent of losses from natural disasters and severe weather will be a function of both the severity of the event and the total amount of insured exposure. Although we maintain insurance coverage, we can offer no assurance that our insurance coverage will be adequate to cover any losses or that we will be able to maintain insurance at a reasonable cost in the future. If losses from business interruption or property damage exceed the amounts for which we are insured, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. We may experience volatility in our stock price.. The price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including:. • fluctuations in demand for, and sales of, our products or prolonged downturns in the industries that we serve;. • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly or annual operating results;. • general economic uncertainties;. • speculation in the press or investment community; and. • announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors.. The market price of our common stock may also be affected by our inability to meet analyst and investor expectations and failure to achieve projected financial results. Any failure to meet such expectations or projected financial results, even if minor, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline significantly. Volatility in our stock price may result in the inability of our shareholders to sell their shares at or above the price at which they purchased them.. Our relatively small public float and daily trading volume have in the past caused, and may in the future result in, significant volatility in our stock price. At December 31, 2017, we had approximately 16.5 million shares outstanding held by non-affiliates. Our daily trading volume for the year ended December 31, 2017 averaged approximately 97,523 shares.. In addition, stock markets have experienced in the past and may in the future experience a high level of price and volume volatility, and the market prices of equity securities of many companies have experienced in the past and may in the future experience wide price fluctuations not necessarily related to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the past, securities class action lawsuits frequently have been instituted against such companies following periods of volatility in the market price of such companies' securities. If any such litigation is instigated against us, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Anti-takeover provisions in our articles of incorporation, bylaws and provisions of Florida law could delay or prevent a change of control that you may favor.. Our articles of incorporation, bylaws and provisions of Florida law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. Although we believe such provisions are appropriate to protect long-term value for our shareholders, these provisions could discourage potential takeover attempts and could adversely affect the market price of our shares. Because of these provisions, you might not be able to receive a premium on your investment. These provisions include:. • a limitation on shareholders' ability to call a special meeting of our shareholders;. • advance notice requirements to nominate directors for election to our board of directors or to propose matters that can be acted on by shareholders at shareholder meetings;. 18. Table of Contents. • our classified board of directors, which means that approximately one-third of our directors are elected each year; and. • the authority of the board of directors to issue, without shareholder approval, preferred stock with such terms as the board of directors may determine.. The provisions described above could delay or make more difficult transactions involving a change in control of the Company or our management.. 19. Table of Contents"
