[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Risk Factors. The performance of our company is subject to a variety of risks that you should review. Occurrence of these risks could materially affect our business, results of operations or financial condition, cause the trading price of our common stock to decline materially or cause our actual results to differ materially from those expected or those expressed in any forward looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company.. Changing interest rates, market volatility and general economic conditions affect the risks and the returns on both our products and our investment portfolio.. The fair value of our investments and our investment performance, including yields and realization of gains or losses, may vary depending on economic and market conditions. The shape of the yield curve and the level of interest rates can impact the profitability of our products. Interest rate risk is our primary market risk exposure. Substantial and sustained increases and decreases in market interest rates can materially affect the profitability of our products, the fair value of our investments and the reported value of stockholders' equity.. A key component of our financial results is the spread earned (the investment yield we earn less the crediting rates we pay to our policyholders). A narrowing of spreads would adversely affect operating results. Although we have the right to adjust interest crediting rates on a portion of our business in force, changes to crediting rates may not be sufficient to maintain targeted investment spreads in all economic and market environments. Our ability to lower crediting rates is subject to contractual minimum crediting rate guarantees. In addition, competition and other factors, including the potential for increases in surrenders and withdrawals, may limit our ability to adjust or maintain crediting rates at levels necessary to avoid the narrowing of spreads under certain market conditions.. Conversely, in periods of rapidly increasing interest rates, surrenders and withdrawals may increase as policyholders seek financial instruments with higher investment returns, commonly referred to as disintermediation. This may lead to net cash outflows and the resulting liquidity demands may require us to sell investments when the prices of those assets are adversely affected by the increase in interest rates, which may result in realized investment losses.. See \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Market Risks of Financial Instruments\" for further discussion of our interest rate risk exposure and information regarding our asset-liability management program.. Difficult conditions in the financial markets and the economy may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the economy and financial markets. In the financial markets, liquidity, corporate profitability and moderate economic growth continue to support fundamental credit quality. However, strong demand for U.S. assets has constrained interest rates broadly, challenging growth in investment income and resulting in declining portfolio investment yields across the life insurance and annuity industry.. Our business generally benefits from moderate to strong economic expansion. Conversely, a lackluster economy characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower consumer spending, muted corporate earnings growth and lower business. 14. Table of Contents. investment could adversely impact the demand for our products in the future. In addition, a significant portion of our customer base operates in the agricultural industry; accordingly, fluctuations in commodity prices, federal subsidies and the value of farm land may impact our customers' demand for our insurance and investment products. We also may experience a higher incidence of claims, lapses or surrenders of policies following such fluctuations. We cannot predict with certainty whether or when such actions may occur, or what impact such actions could have on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.. Adverse financial market conditions may significantly affect our liquidity, access to capital and cost of capital.. Capital requirements depend on factors including the rate of sales growth of our products, aggregate reserve levels and the levels of risks in our insurance products and invested assets. In order to meet these capital requirements, we may need to increase or maintain Farm Bureau Life's statutory capital and surplus through additional financings, which could include debt, equity or other transactions.. Adverse capital market conditions may affect the availability and cost of additional financing, thereby ultimately impacting our profitability, liquidity and ability to support or grow our businesses. Without sufficient capital and liquidity, we could be forced to curtail certain of our operations, and our business could suffer. Actions we might take to access financing may in turn cause rating agencies to reevaluate our ratings.. We manage our capital level to be consistent with statutory and rating agency requirements. As of December 31, 2017, we estimate that Farm Bureau Life has sufficient capital to meet our rating objectives. However, this capital may not be sufficient if significant future losses are incurred and access to additional capital is limited.. Our valuation of fixed maturity securities may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions that are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to investment valuations that may materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.. During periods of market disruption, it may be difficult to value certain securities if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. There may be certain asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data that become illiquid due to the financial environment or market conditions.. Certain market sectors may become dislocated during and after periods of volatile and illiquid market conditions, increasing the difficulty in valuing certain instruments, as trading becomes less frequent and/or market data less observable. As a result, certain valuations may require greater estimation and judgment as well as more complex valuation methods. These values may not ultimately be realizable in a market transaction, and such values may change rapidly as market conditions change and valuation assumptions are modified.. The decision on whether to record an other-than-temporary impairment is determined in part by our assessment of the financial condition and prospects of a particular issuer, projections of future cash flows and recoverability of the particular security as well as an evaluation of our intent to sell and whether it is more likely than not that we would be required to sell prior to recovery. Our conclusions regarding the recoverability of a particular security's fair value may ultimately prove to be incorrect.. Our investment portfolio is subject to credit quality risks that may diminish the value of our invested assets and affect our profitability and reported book value per share.. During a major downturn in the economy, we are subject to the risk that issuers of fixed maturity securities, other debt securities and commercial mortgage borrowers, will default on principal and interest payments. As of December 31, 2017, we held $7.3 billion of fixed income securities, $0.3 billion of which represented below-investment grade holdings. We generally do not purchase below-investment grade securities. Typically, the below-investment grade holdings we own were acquired as investment grade holdings, but subsequently downgraded. An increase in defaults on our fixed maturity securities and commercial mortgage loans could harm our financial strength and reduce our profitability.. Although we seek to diversify the investment portfolio across multiple asset classes, industries and geographies, the concentration of our investment portfolio in any particular industry, group of related industries or geographic sector could have an adverse effect on our investment portfolios and, consequently, on our results of operations and financial position.. 15. Table of Contents. We face competition from companies having greater financial resources, more advanced technology systems, broader arrays of products, higher ratings and stronger financial performance, which may impair our ability to retain existing customers, attract new customers and maintain our profitability and financial strength.. See \"Item 1. Business - Ratings and Competition\" for information regarding risks relating to competition.. As a holding company, we depend on our subsidiaries for funds to meet our obligations, but our life insurance subsidiaries' ability to make distributions to us is limited by law, and could be affected by minimum risk-based capital requirements.. As a holding company, we rely on dividends from subsidiaries to assist in meeting our obligations. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or to make other cash payments in the future may materially affect our ability to satisfy our parent company payment obligations, including debt service and dividends on our common stock.. The amount of dividends we have available to pay our common shareholders is limited to a certain extent by the amount of dividends our primary operating subsidiary, Farm Bureau Life, is able to pay to its parent, FBL Financial Group, Inc. Farm Bureau Life's ability to pay dividends to FBL Financial Group, Inc. is limited by law to earned profits (statutory unassigned surplus) as of the date the dividend is paid, as determined in accordance with accounting practices prescribed by insurance regulatory authorities of the State of Iowa. At December 31, 2017, Farm Bureau Life's statutory unassigned surplus was $482.5 million. There are certain additional limits to the amount of dividends that may be paid within a year without approval of the Insurance Division, Department of Commerce of the State of Iowa (the Iowa Insurance Division) as discussed in Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. During 2018, the maximum amount available for distribution to FBL Financial Group, Inc. from Farm Bureau Life without regulatory approval is $106.1 million.. In addition, Farm Bureau Life is subject to the risk-based capital (RBC) requirement of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) set forth in the Risk-Based Capital for Insurers Model Act (the Model Act). The main purpose of the Model Act is to provide insurance regulators a method of measuring the minimum amount of capital appropriate for an insurance company to support its overall business operations in consideration of its size and risk profile. U.S. insurers and reinsurers are required to report the results of their RBC calculations as part of the statutory annual statements filed with state insurance regulatory authorities. State laws specify regulatory actions if an insurer's risk-based capital ratio, a measure of solvency, falls below certain levels. The NAIC has a standard formula for annually assessing RBC based on various risk factors related to an insurance company's capital and surplus, including insurance, business, asset and interest rate risks. The insurance regulators impose regulatory actions when a company's total adjusted capital is equal to or lower than 200% of its authorized control level risk-based capital. The severity of regulatory actions increase until the point at which regulators assume control of an insurance company when its total adjusted capital is equal to or less than 70% of its authorized control level risk-based capital.. Failure to maintain adequate capital levels could lead to ratings downgrades and liquidity issues that could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. A significant ratings downgrade may have a material adverse effect on our business.. Ratings are an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. If our ratings were lowered, our ability to access reinsurance and market products to new customers could be harmed and existing policyholders might cancel their policies or withdraw the cash values of their policies. These events, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and liquidity. Our ratings reflect the agency's opinions as to our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet obligations to Farm Bureau Life's policyholders. There is no assurance that a rating will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be reduced, suspended or withdrawn entirely by the rating agency, if in the rating agency's judgment, circumstances so warrant. See \"Item 1. Business - Ratings and Competition\" for a summary of our current ratings.. Cyber attacks, system security risks, data protection breaches and other technology failures could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. A technology failure could occur and potentially disrupt our business, damage our reputation and adversely affect our profitability. Our information technology systems are subject to computer viruses or other malicious codes, unauthorized access and cyber attacks. The administrative and technical controls and other preventive actions we take to reduce the risk of cyber incidents and protect our information technology systems may be insufficient to prevent physical and electronic break-ins, cyber attacks or other security breaches to our computer systems. In addition, disruptions or breaches could occur as a result of. 16. Table of Contents. natural disasters, man-made disasters, industrial accident, blackout, criminal activity, technological changes or events, terrorism or other unanticipated events beyond our control. Any compromise of the security of our technology systems could damage our reputation, expose us to losses and litigation and require us to incur significant technical, legal and other expenses. While the company has insurance intended to provide coverage from certain losses related to such incidents and a variety of preventative security measures such as risk management, information protection, disaster recovery and business continuity plans, we cannot predict the method or outcome of every possible cyber incident. Unanticipated problems with our systems or recovery plans could have a material adverse impact on our ability to conduct business, our results of operations and our financial position.. Success of our business depends in part on effective information technology systems and on continuing to develop and implement improvements.. Our business is dependent upon effective technology for interacting with employees, agents, policyholders, vendors, third parties and investors. It is crucial to our business to reach a large number of people and secure, store and provide sizable amounts of information. If we do not maintain adequate systems to reflect technological advancements, we could experience adverse consequences including inadequate pricing, underwriting and reserving decisions, regulatory problems, security breaches or litigation exposure. This could adversely affect our relationships and ability to do business with our clients and make it difficult to attract new customers.. Our business strategy involves providing customers with easy-to-use products and systems to meet their needs, and our information systems require an ongoing commitment of resources to maintain current standards. We are continuously enhancing and updating our systems to keep pace with changes in information processing technology, evolving industry and regulatory standards, threats and customer demands. A failure to provide customers with the information systems they need to conduct business with us could negatively impact relationships with our customers.. Our business is dependent, in part, upon third-party software and services for some of the above-listed technology needs. If one of our third-party vendors is unable to provide the service we require, there could be an adverse impact on our ability to meet our customer, agent, reporting, regulatory and other operational needs.. Our success is dependent on protecting, maintaining and enhancing the effectiveness of existing systems, as well as continuing to buy or build information systems that support our business processes in a cost-effective manner. An inability to provide and maintain effective information technology systems could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition.. All segments of our business are highly regulated and these regulations or changes in them could affect our profitability.. We are subject to statutes and regulations in various states in which our life insurance subsidiaries operate. Insurance regulation is different in each state, but is similar in that it is intended to provide safeguards for policyholders, agents, insurance companies and their holding companies. State insurance regulators oversee matters relating to the business of life insurance and annuities, such as sales practices, policy forms, claims practices, types and amounts of investments, reserve adequacy, insurer solvency, minimum amounts of capital and surplus, transactions with related parties, changes in control and payment of dividends. They continually examine existing laws and regulations, and may recommend or make changes as they see appropriate.. Our variable insurance products, investment advisors, broker/dealer and certain licensed agents who are also registered representatives and investment advisor representatives are subject to regulation by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), state securities regulators (in most states where they are authorized to do business) and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA).. As noted above, through adoption by law in states where we do business, our life insurance subsidiaries are subject to the NAIC's RBC requirements. These guidelines are used by state insurance regulators as an early warning tool to identify deteriorating or weakly capitalized insurance companies for the purpose of initiating regulatory action. Our life insurance subsidiaries also may be required under solvency or guarantee laws of most states in which they do business, to pay assessments up to certain prescribed limits to fund policyholder losses for insolvent insurance companies.. Although the federal government does not directly regulate the business of insurance, our company is subject to the same federal laws and regulations as other corporations, including, but not limited to pension regulation, employment laws, financial services regulation, securities regulation and federal taxation. Each of these laws and regulations can significantly affect the insurance business. In addition, various forms of direct and indirect federal regulation of insurance have been proposed from time to time. The Dodd-Frank Act of 2010 established the Federal Insurance Office (FIO) within the Department of Treasury to. 17. Table of Contents. collect information about the insurance industry, recommend prudential standards and represent the U.S. in dealings with foreign insurance regulators. We monitor the activities of the FIO, NAIC and the state insurance regulators.. As part of the Dodd-Frank Act, many key rules have yet to be finalized, some of which might have an impact on insurers. The regulatory framework at the state and federal level applicable to our insurance products is evolving and could affect the design of our products and our ability to sell certain products. Any changes in these laws and regulations could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our investment management subsidiary is an SEC-registered investment advisor. This entity manages the investment portfolios for certain non-affiliated organizations, as well as oversees financial advisory services provided by our agent force. Agents who are Investment Advisor Representatives (IARs) offer fee-based financial planning. In 2018 we plan to expand these services. Our registered separate accounts are themselves regulated under the Investment Company Act. In addition, our broker-dealer subsidiary is registered with the SEC and is subject to regulation under the Exchange Act and various state securities laws, and is a member of and subject to regulation by FINRA. Registered representatives sell mutual funds through our broker/dealer subsidiary and are regulated by FINRA and state securities regulators. The failure of our broker-dealer subsidiary and registered representatives to acquire and maintain required securities registrations and comply with SEC and FINRA regulations could materially impact our business reputation and subject the company to financial penalties.. On April 8, 2016,  the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) issued regulations (the Final Rule) addressing when companies and individuals providing investment advice with respect to certain employee benefit plans or individual retirement accounts (IRAs) are considered a fiduciary under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) and the Internal Revenue Code. Under the Final Rule, the agents who sell fixed indexed annuities and the registered representatives who sell variable annuities or investment products for use in certain employee benefit plans or IRAs would be considered fiduciaries, and could subject themselves and one or more of our companies to additional disclosures, reporting, record keeping and other regulatory requirements. Amendments to the Final Rule went into effect on June 9, 2017, without some of the more onerous requirements of the Best Interest Contract Exemption (BICE). On November 29, 2017, a new rule became effective that delayed the effective date of implementation of the balance of the requirements of the Final Rule until July 1, 2019. Based on statements by the DOL, FINRA (Financial Industry Regulatory Authority) and the NAIC (National Association of Insurance Commissioners), there is speculation that the three groups will seek to adopt a new uniform best interest standard that would apply to sales of securities products and annuities, prior to the new July 1, 2019, effective date. Until more information is provided with respect to this new standard, we are unable to assess the effect this might have on our business. We do not anticipate making any additional changes in the way we currently handle business during calendar year 2018. We continue to analyze the effect of the Final Rule (as adopted to date) on our business.. A significant change in accounting guidance could have a material effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. From time to time, we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards. It is possible that future accounting standards we are required to adopt could change the current accounting treatment that we apply to our consolidated financial statements and that such changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The impact of accounting pronouncements that have been issued but not yet implemented is discussed in Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. In addition, there is currently a project underway, by the accounting setting body, to evaluate the accounting for long-term insurance contracts. While it is uncertain what the final outcome of the project will be or when it will be completed, it is possible that changes to the accounting guidance could be significant. In addition, our insurance subsidiaries are subject to statutory accounting principles. Any changes in these accounting principles may materially impact our minimum required capital levels.. Actual experience that differs from our assumptions regarding future persistency, mortality, interest rates and benefit utilization used in pricing our products and calculating reserve amounts and deferred acquisition costs, could have a material adverse impact on our financial results.. The process of pricing products and calculating reserve amounts and deferred acquisition costs for an insurance organization involves the use of a number of assumptions including those related to persistency (how long a contract stays with the company), mortality (the relative incidence of death in a given time) and interest rates (the rates expected to be paid or received on financial instruments, including insurance or investment contracts). Actual results could differ significantly from those assumed. Actual experience, which differs from one or more of these assumptions, could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.. 18. Table of Contents. We may be required to accelerate the amortization of deferred acquisition costs, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.. Deferred acquisition costs (DAC) include certain direct costs of successfully acquiring new insurance business, including commissions and other expenses related to the production of new business, to the extent recoverable from future policy revenues and gross profits. Bonus interest credited to contracts during the first policy year is also included. We amortize these costs over the expected lives of the contracts. We test the DAC recorded on our consolidated balance sheet to determine if these amounts are recoverable under current assumptions. In addition, we regularly review the estimates and assumptions underlying DAC for those products for which we amortize DAC in proportion to gross profits. Given changes in facts and circumstances, these tests and reviews could lead to reductions in DAC that could have an adverse effect on the results of our operations and our financial condition. Increases in actual or expected future withdrawals or surrenders or decreases in expected future investment returns, which are more likely in a severe economic recession, would result in an acceleration of DAC amortization. In addition, significant or sustained equity and bond market declines could result in an acceleration of DAC amortization related to our closed block of variable annuity and variable universal life contracts.. Our earnings are influenced by our claims experience, which is difficult to estimate for future periods. If our future claims experience does not match our pricing assumptions or past results, our earnings could be materially adversely affected.. Our earnings are significantly influenced by the claims paid under our insurance contracts and will vary from period to period depending upon the amount of claims incurred and any corresponding reinsurance offset. We are exposed to the risk of catastrophic mortality, such as a pandemic or other event that causes a large number of deaths. There is only limited predictability of claims experience within any given quarter or year. The liability that we have established for future insurance and annuity policy benefits is based on assumptions concerning a number of factors, including interest rates, expected claims, persistency and expenses. In the event our future experience does not match our pricing assumptions or our past results, our operating results could be materially adversely affected.. Our reinsurance program involves risks because we remain liable with respect to the liabilities ceded to reinsurers if the reinsurers fail to meet the obligations assumed by them.. We reinsure a portion of our life insurance exposure with unaffiliated insurance companies under traditional indemnity reinsurance agreements. New sales of life products are reinsured above prescribed limits and do not require the reinsurer's prior approval within certain guidelines. We enter into indemnity reinsurance arrangements to assist in diversifying our risks and to limit our maximum loss on risks that exceed our policy retention limits. Our current maximum retention limit on an insured life is $1.0 million.. Indemnity reinsurance does not fully discharge our obligation to pay claims on the reinsured business. As the ceding insurer, we remain responsible for policy claims to the extent the reinsurer fails to pay claims. Should any reinsurer fail to meet the obligations assumed under such reinsurance, we remain liable, and payment of these obligations could result in losses.. Our business is highly dependent on our relationships with Farm Bureau organizations and could be adversely affected if those relationships became impaired.. Farm Bureau Life's business relies significantly upon the maintenance of our right to use the Farm Bureau and FB trade names and related trademarks and service marks, which are controlled by the American Farm Bureau Federation and state Farm Bureau organizations. See discussion under \"Item 1. Business - Marketing and Distribution - Affiliation with Farm Bureau Organizations\" for information regarding these relationships and circumstances under which our access to the Farm Bureau membership base and use of the \"Farm Bureau\" and \"FB\" designations could be terminated. The loss of the right to use these designations in a key state or states could have a material adverse effect on operating results.. Our relationship with Farm Bureau organizations could result in conflicts of interests.. Our business and operations are interrelated to a degree with that of the American Farm Bureau Federation and its affiliates, and state Farm Bureau organizations and their affiliates. The Company and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Farm Bureau Life, share common directors with the American Farm Bureau Federation and certain state Farm Bureau organizations and their affiliates. Farm Bureau Life has written agreements with certain state Farm Bureau organizations, which cover the use of the Farm Bureau name and logo in their respective states. Farm Bureau Life also has written service agreements with affiliates of these state Farm Bureau organizations covering the management of our shared distribution in those states. Negotiation and approval of those agreements may give rise to conflicts of interest for those who serve on the boards of directors of both parties to such agreements. Conflicts could also arise with respect to other business dealings among the parties.. 19. Table of Contents. The Company and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Farm Bureau Life, have comparable agreements with Farm Bureau Property & Casualty Insurance Company. With respect to those agreements, in addition to individuals who serve as directors on the boards of both companies, the Company, Farm Bureau Life and Farm Bureau Property & Casualty Insurance Company have common executive management, which may give rise to conflicts of interest for those executives.. Changes in federal tax laws may affect sales of our products and profitability.. The Tax Cuts & Jobs Act of 2017 (the Tax Act) was enacted on December 22, 2017. The Tax Act reduced the corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% and contained many base-broadening provisions specific to the life insurance industry. The reduction in the corporate tax rate will generally result in increased net income for the year of enactment and future years. However, additional guidance is still needed to fully evaluate the extent to which several of the base-broadening provisions might offset the benefit of the lower rate.. Additionally, the Tax Act reduced individual tax rates and doubled the estate tax exemptions. The Tax Act does not change the taxation of annuity and life products, and they maintain the policyholder tax advantages not present in other savings instruments, such as certificates of deposit and taxable bonds. Federal income tax law allows for the deferral of income tax on the earnings during the accumulation period of certain annuity and life insurance products, as opposed to the current taxation of other savings instruments. In addition, life insurance death benefits are generally exempt from income tax.. The impact, if any, on the sales of our products from lower individual tax rates and a higher estate tax exemption is uncertain at this time.. Our ability to maintain competitive costs is dependent upon the level of new sales and persistency of existing business.. Maintaining competitive costs depends upon numerous factors, including the level of new sales, persistency of existing business and expense management. A decrease in sales or persistency without a corresponding reduction in expenses could affect our business and results of operations.. If we are unable to attract and retain agents, sales of our products and services may be reduced.. We compete to attract and retain exclusive agents for Farm Bureau Life. Intense competition exists for persons with demonstrated ability. We compete primarily on the basis of our reputation, products, compensation, support services, rating agency ratings and financial position. Sales and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining agents.. Attracting and retaining employees who are key to our business is critical to our growth and success.. The success of our business and the ability to reach our goals is dependent, to a large extent, on our ability to attract and retain key employees. Competition is intense in the job market for certain positions, such as actuaries and other insurance professionals with demonstrated ability, particularly with our headquarters being located in central Iowa, a hub of insurance company home offices, where we compete with other insurance and financial institutions.. Our employees are not subject to employment contracts. There can be no certainty regarding the length of time any of our named executive officers will remain with us. Our inability to retain our key employees, or attract and retain additional qualified employees, could materially adversely affect our sales, results of operations and financial condition.. We face risks relating to litigation, including the costs of such litigation, management distraction and the potential for damage awards, which may adversely impact our business.. We are occasionally involved in litigation, both as a defendant and as a plaintiff. Some lawsuits naming us as defendants may be, or purport to be, class actions. In addition, state regulators such as the Iowa Insurance Division, and federal regulators such as the SEC, FINRA, DOL and the Internal Revenue Service, are entitled to make inquiries and conduct examinations or investigations concerning our compliance with, among other things, insurance laws, securities laws, tax laws, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 and laws governing the activities of broker-dealers. Moreover, we are subject to the risks of errors and misconduct by our exclusive agents, such as fraud, non-compliance with policies and recommending transactions that are not suitable for particular customers. While we are currently not a party to any lawsuit that we believe will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, there can be no assurance that any litigation will not have such an effect, whether financially, through distraction of our management or otherwise.. 20. Table of Contents"
