[1] "ITEM 1A  -  RISK FACTORS. As an investment manager, risk is an inherent part of Federated's business. U.S. and global financial markets, by their nature, are prone to uncertainty and subject participants to a variety of risks. If any of the following risks actually occur, Federated's business, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. The risks described below are not the only risks involved in Federated's business. Additional risks not presently known to Federated or that Federated currently considers to be immaterial may also adversely affect its business, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. Potential Adverse Effects of a Material Concentration in Revenue. At any point in time, a meaningful or significant portion of Federated's total AUM or revenue may be attributable to one or more products or strategies, or asset classes, offered by Federated, or one or more clients or customer intermediaries with whom Federated has a relationship. See Note (3) to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on material concentrations in Federated's revenue. A significant and prolonged decline in the AUM of a strategy or fund with a material concentration could have a material adverse effect on Federated's future revenues and, to a lesser extent, net income, due to a related reduction in distribution expenses associated with these funds or accounts. Likewise, significant negative changes in Federated's relationship with a customer with a material concentration could have a material adverse effect on Federated's future revenues and, to a lesser extent, net income due to a related reduction in distribution expenses associated with this customer. A significant change in Federated's investment management business or a significant reduction in AUM due to regulatory changes or developments, changes in the financial markets, such as significant and rapid increases in interest rates over a short period of time causing certain investors to prefer direct investments in interest-bearing securities, non-competitive performance, the availability, supply and/or market interest in repurchase agreements and other investments, significant deterioration in investor confidence, a return to declining or additional prolonged periods of low short-term interest rates and resulting fee waivers, investor preferences for deposit products or other Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC)-insured products, or exchange-traded funds, index funds or other passive investment products, changes in product fee structures, changes in relationships with financial intermediaries, or other circumstances, could have a material adverse effect on Federated's business, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. Potential Adverse Effects of Low Short-Term Interest Rates. After initiating short-term interest rate increases of 0.25% in late 2015 and 2016, the Federal Open Market Committee of the Federal Reserve Board (FOMC) raised the federal funds target rate by 0.25% three times during 2017 to its current target range of 1.25%-1.50%. The federal funds target rate, which drives short-term interest rates, had been close to zero for nearly seven years prior to the December 2015 increase. The long-term low interest-rate environment resulted in the gross yield earned by certain money market funds not being sufficient to cover all of the fund's operating expenses. As a result, beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008, Federated implemented voluntary waivers (either through fee waivers or reimbursements or assumptions of expenses) in order for certain money market funds to maintain positive or zero net yields (Voluntary Yield-related Fee Waivers). These waivers were partially offset by related reductions in distribution expense and net income attributable to noncontrolling interests as a result of Federated's mutual understanding and agreement with third-party intermediaries to share the impact of the Voluntary Yield-related Fee Waivers.. Voluntary Yield-related Fee Waivers are calculated as a percentage of AUM in certain money market funds and thus can vary depending upon the asset levels and mix in such funds. While increases in short-term interest rates generally have the effect of decreasing, and have decreased, these fee waivers for certain money market funds, the corresponding increases in yields and the resulting decrease in fee waivers are not certain nor directly proportional. In addition, the level of waivers are dependent on several other factors including, but not limited to, yields on instruments available for purchase by the money market funds and changes in expenses of the money market funds. In any given period, a combination of these factors impacts the amount of Voluntary Yield-related Fee Waivers. As an isolated variable, an increase in yields on instruments held by the money market funds would cause the pre-tax impact of fee waivers to decrease. Conversely, as an isolated variable, an increase in expenses of the money market funds would cause the pre-tax impact of fee waivers to increase.. With regard to asset mix, changes in the relative amount of money market fund assets in prime and government money market funds (or between such funds and other money market funds or other products) as well as the mix among certain share classes that vary in pricing structure can impact the level of fee waivers. Generally, prime money market funds will waive less than government money market funds as a result of higher gross yields on the underlying investments. As such, as an isolated variable, an increase in the relative proportion of average managed assets invested in prime money market funds as compared to total average money market fund assets should typically result in lower Voluntary Yield-related Fee Waivers. The opposite would also be true.. 17. The impact of such fee waivers on various components of Federated's Consolidated Statements of Income was as follows for the years ended December 31:. in millions   2017     2016     2015   Revenue   $ (4.4 )   $ (87.8 )   $ (333.6 ) Less: Reduction in Distribution expense   3.6     65.8     240.6      Operating income   (0.8 )   (22.0 )   (93.0 ) Less: Reduction in Noncontrolling interest   0.0     0.0     7.1   Pre-tax impact   $ (0.8 )   $ (22.0 )   $ (85.9 ). The negative pre-tax impact of Voluntary Yield-related Fee Waivers decreased in 2017 and 2016 due primarily to higher yields on instruments held by the money market funds. As previously mentioned, since late 2015, the FOMC increased the federal funds target rate range by 0.25% five times. The interest rate increase in December 2017 eliminated the need to continue the Voluntary Yield-related Fee Waivers. See Note (19) to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the quarterly pre-tax impact of these fee waivers.. As noted above, the FOMC increased the federal funds target rate range by 0.25% in December 2015, December 2016 and March, June and December 2017. There is no guarantee that the FOMC will continue to maintain the federal funds rate at its current level or continue to increase it. While the FOMC implied in its economic projections that it would continue to raise the federal funds target rate in a measured and gradual way, Federated is unable to predict when, or to what extent, the FOMC will maintain or further increase their target for the federal funds rate. Assuming asset levels and mix remain constant and based on recent market conditions, management estimates that Voluntary Yield-related Fee Waivers will remain at zero or an immaterial level.. The actual amount of future fee waivers, if any, the resulting negative impact of any waivers and Federated's ability to recover the net pre-tax impact of such waivers (that is, the ability to capture the pre-tax impact going forward, not re-capture previously waived amounts) could vary significantly from management's estimates as they are contingent on a number of variables including, but not limited to, changes in asset levels and mix within the money market funds or among customer assets, yields on instruments available for purchase by the money market funds, actions by the Governors, the FOMC, the Treasury Department, the SEC, the DOL, the FSOC and other governmental entities, changes in fees and expenses of the money market funds, changes in customer relationships, changes in money market product structures and offerings, demand for competing products, changes in distribution models, changes in the distribution fee arrangements with third parties, Federated's willingness to continue the fee waivers and changes in the extent to which the impact of the waivers is shared by any one or more third parties. The duration, level and impact of any future Voluntary Yield-related Fee Waivers, as well as Federated's ability to recover the net pre-tax impact of such waivers (that is, the ability to capture the pre-tax income going forward, not re-capture previously waived amounts) could have a material adverse effect on Federated's business, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. Potential Adverse Effects of Rising Interest Rates. Increases in interest rates could also have an adverse effect on Federated's revenue from money market and other fixed-income products and strategies. The value of equity securities (such as dividend paying equity securities) also may rise and fall in response to changes in interest rates. In a rising short-term interest rate environment, certain investors using money market products and strategies or other short-duration fixed-income products and strategies for cash management purposes may shift these investments to direct investments in comparable instruments in order to realize higher yields than those available in money market and other products or strategies holding lower-yielding instruments. In addition, rising interest rates will tend to reduce the fair value of securities held in various investment products and strategies. Among other potential adverse effects, rising interest rates may result in decreased liquidity and increased volatility in financial markets and could negatively impact the performance of Federated's products and strategies and Federated's revenue. Management cannot estimate the impact of rising interest rates (including, for example on Federated's revenue), but such impact could have a material adverse effect on Federated's business, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. Potential Adverse Effects of a Decline or Disruption in the Economy or Financial Markets. Economic or financial market downturns, disruptions or other conditions (domestic or international) may cause volatility, illiquidity and other potential adverse effects in the financial markets and adversely affect, potentially in a material way, the supply of investments, such as money market or municipal (tax-exempt) securities and the profitability and performance of, demand for and investor confidence in Federated's investment products and strategies. Such economic or financial market downturns, disruptions or other conditions (domestic or international) may include, for example, disruptions in the securities and credit markets, defaults or poor performance in certain sectors of the economy, unemployment, the commencement, continuation or ending of government policies and reforms (including those of new administrations or otherwise), stimulus programs and other market-. 18. related actions, changes in monetary policy, central bank activism through continued ownership, exchange, cancellation or issuance of debt or other means, increased regulation or deregulation, increases or decreases in interest rates, changes in oil prices or other changes in commodity markets or prices, changes in currency values or exchange rates or currency abandonment, inflation or deflation, widening bid/ask spreads, changes in the allocation of capital to market-making, restructuring of government-sponsored entities, imposition of economic sanctions, economic or political weakness or instability in certain countries or regions, technology-related or cyber-attacks or incidents, terrorism, the prospects for or concerns about any of the foregoing factors or events, or other factors or events that affect the financial markets. For example, regarding currency abandonment and political instability, there is considerable uncertainty as a result of Brexit, as to the arrangements that will apply to the UK's relationship with the EU and other countries leading up to, and following, the UK's withdrawal from the EU. This long-term uncertainty may affect other countries in the EU and elsewhere. The UK's departure from the EU also may cause volatility within the EU, triggering prolonged economic downturns in certain European countries or sparking additional Member States to depart, or contemplate departing, from the EU. In addition, Brexit creates the perception of additional economic stresses for the UK, including the view that there may be potential decreased trade, capital outflows, devaluation of the British pound, wider corporate bond spreads due to uncertainty, and possible declines in business and consumer spending as well as foreign direct investment. See Item 1 - Business under the caption Regulatory Matters for additional information on Brexit. Each of the above factors, among others, may cause or contribute to economic or financial market downturns, disruptions or other conditions and their potentially adverse effects. In addition, Federated's products and strategies may be adversely affected, potentially in a material way, by changes in U.S. markets, downgrades of U.S. credit ratings, the U.S. debt ceiling or other developments in the U.S., as well as by actual or potential deterioration in international sovereign, commodity or currency market conditions.. At December 31, 2017, Federated's liquid assets of $392.6 million included investments in certain Federated-sponsored money market and fluctuating-value funds that may have direct and/or indirect exposures to international sovereign debt and currency risks. Federated and the money market and other fluctuating NAV funds managed or distributed by Federated also interact with various other financial industry participants, such as counterparties, broker/dealers, banks, clearing organizations, other investment products and customers, as a result of operations, trading, distribution and other relationships. As a result, Federated's business (including, but not limited to, its reputation), results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows could be adversely affected by the creditworthiness or financial soundness of other financial industry participants, particularly in times of economic or financial stress or disruption. There can be no assurance that potential losses that may be realized as a result of these exposures will not have a material adverse effect on Federated's business (including, but not limited to, its reputation), results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. The ability of Federated to compete and sustain asset and revenue growth is dependent, in part, on the relative attractiveness of the types of investment products and strategies Federated offers and its investment performance under prevailing market conditions. Adverse market conditions or other events also could impact Federated's customers. In the event of extreme circumstances, such as economic, political, or business crises, Federated's products and strategies may suffer significant net redemptions in AUM causing severe liquidity issues in its short-term, fixed-income or certain other sponsored investment products and strategies and declines in the value of and returns on AUM, all of which could cause material adverse effects on Federated's business (including, but not limited to, its reputation), results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. Custody and portfolio accounting services for all of Federated's fund products are outsourced to one of four third-party financial institutions that are leading providers of such mutual fund services. Accounting records for Federated's funds are maintained by these service providers (or vendors). These service providers, or other service providers of Federated and its products or customers, could also be adversely affected by the adverse market conditions described above. It is not possible to predict with certainty the extent to which the services or products Federated receives from such service providers would be interrupted or affected by such situations. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that potential service interruption or Federated's ability to find a suitable replacement would not have a material adverse effect on Federated's business (including, but not limited to, its reputation), results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. Potential Adverse Effects of Changes in Laws, Regulations and Other Rules on Federated's Investment Management Business. Federated and its investment management business are (and any new business line commenced or acquired by Federated would be) subject to extensive regulation in the U.S. and abroad. Federated and its products, such as the Federated Funds, and strategies are subject to: federal securities laws, principally the 1933 Act, the 1934 Act, the 1940 Act and the Advisers Act; state laws regarding securities fraud and registration; and regulations or other rules, promulgated by various regulatory authorities, self-regulatory organizations or exchanges including, but not limited to, the SEC, FINRA and the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). From time to time, the federal securities laws have been augmented substantially. For example, among other measures, Federated and its products and strategies have been impacted by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Patriot Act of 2001, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 and the Dodd-Frank Act. Federated and its domestic products (such as the Federated Funds) and strategies, and any offshore products (such as offshore Federated Funds) and strategies to the. 19. extent offered in the U.S., continue to be primarily regulated by the SEC. Federated, and certain Federated Funds, are also subject to regulation by the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) and the National Futures Association (NFA), due to certain Federated Funds investing in futures, swaps or certain other commodity interests in more than de minimis amounts. In addition, during the past several years, regulators, self-regulatory organizations or exchanges such as the SEC, FINRA, CFTC, NFA, NYSE and state or local governments and regulators, have adopted other regulations, rules and amendments that have increased Federated's operating expenses and affected the conduct of its business, as well as Federated's AUM, revenues and operating income, and may continue to do so. Federated's business is affected by laws, regulations, and regulatory authorities that impact the manner in which Federated's products are structured, distributed, provided or sold, such as, for example, the Final Fiduciary Rule. Federated and its products and strategies also are affected by certain other laws and regulations governing banks and other financial institutions or intermediaries. Federated's and its products' operations outside of the U.S. are subject to foreign laws and regulation by foreign regulatory or other authorities, such as the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) for London-based operations, the Central Bank of Ireland for Dublin-based operations, the German Federal Financial Supervisory Authority for Frankfurt-based operations, and Ontario (and certain other provincial) Securities Commission for Canadian operations. As Federated enters into new countries or markets, Federated's products, strategies and operations need to be made to comply with applicable laws, rules, regulations, interpretations and government policies, increasing compliance risk and operating expenses, including the costs associated with compliance.. Additional, or amendments to, laws, regulations, rules, interpretations or governmental policies, both domestically and abroad, may increase compliance risk and operating expenses, including the costs associated with compliance. As Federated's business expands, the potential impact of such changes in laws, regulations, rules, interpretations or governmental policies, compliance and the risks and costs associated with compliance may increase.. Domestically, while the potential for deregulation continues to exist and the pace of new regulation slowed in late 2017 and into 2018, certain rules and regulations adopted by the SEC and DOL, among other regulators, self-regulatory organizations or exchanges, became effective in 2017 or are expected to become effective in 2018 and 2019. These rules and regulations include, among others, investment company reporting modernization, liquidity risk management programs, swing pricing and the use of derivatives. These rules and regulations will impact Federated and other investment management industry participants. See Item 1 - Business under the caption Regulatory Matters for additional information on Regulatory Developments.. Regulators, such as the SEC, also have undertaken or may undertake a series of investigations, enforcement actions and/or examinations involving investment management industry participants. The SEC examinations have included certain sweep examinations of investment management companies and investment advisors involving various topics, such as compliance with the 2014 Money Fund Rules and Guidance, \"distribution in guise,\" marketing support payments, intermediary and other payments and related disclosures, allocation of initial public offerings, allocation of portfolio security litigation proceeds, manager of managers arrangements, monitoring of use of social networks, target date funds, the impact of Brexit, valuation practices, share class selection, fixed-income and high yield liquidity, liquidity controls, liquid alternatives, cybersecurity, side-by-side management of private funds, private placements, mutual fund waivers, direct and indirect custody of client assets by investment advisors, separately managed or wrap-fee accounts, performance reporting and excessive trading.. Among other potential impacts, these regulatory requirements and developments have increased, and may continue to increase, compliance risks and the costs associated with technology, legal, compliance, operations and other efforts to address regulatory-related matters. These regulatory requirements and developments also have caused, and may continue to cause, certain product line-up, structure, pricing and product development changes, money market, equity, fixed-income or balanced fund products to be less attractive to institutional and other investors, reductions in the number of Federated Funds offered by intermediaries, changes in the fees Federated, retirement plan advisors and intermediaries will be able to earn on investment products and services sold to retirement plan clients, and reductions in AUM, revenues and operating profits, as well as changes in asset flows, levels and mix and customer relationships. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act provided for a new systemic risk regulation regime under which it is possible that Federated, and/or any one or more of its products (such as the Federated Funds), could be subject to designation as a systemically important financial institution by the FSOC, thereby resulting in additional regulation by the Governors in addition to primary regulation by the SEC. See Item 1 - Business under the caption Regulatory Matters for additional information regarding the potential for heightened regulation by the Governors and the FSOC. Among other potential impacts, any such designation would subject the designated entity to enhanced bank-oriented measures, including, for example, capital and liquidity requirements, leverage limits, enhanced public disclosures and risk management requirements, thereby increasing compliance risk and compliance costs. With the continued potential for deregulation and other political uncertainty surrounding the Trump Administration and its practices and policies, the regulatory environment in the U.S. may experience increased volatility. As of December 31, 2017, Federated cannot assess the impact of this uncertainty in the regulatory environment on its business, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. 20. On a cumulative basis, Federated's regulatory, product development and restructuring, and other efforts in response to the Regulatory Developments discussed above, including the internal and external resources dedicated to such efforts, have had, and may continue to have, a material impact on Federated's expenses and, in turn, financial performance. The floating NAV for institutional and municipal (or tax-exempt) money market funds, and redemption fees and liquidity gates, required by the 2014 Money Fund Rules and Guidance, effective October 14, 2016, resulted in a shift in asset mix from institutional prime and municipal (or tax-exempt) money market funds to stable NAV government money market funds across the investment management industry and at Federated, which impacted its AUM, revenues and operating income. The regulatory changes and developments in the current regulatory environment, and Federated's efforts in responding to them, could have a material and adverse effect on Federated's business, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows. Given the current regulatory environment and the potential for deregulation or future additional or modified regulation or guidance, Federated is unable to fully assess the degree of the impact of adopted or proposed regulations, and other regulatory developments, and Federated's efforts related thereto, on its business, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. Given the potential for deregulation and the continued efforts underway to improve the transparency of, and to seek to curtail certain authority of, the FSOC, Federated also is unable to assess whether, or the degree to which, any of the Federated Funds, including money market funds or any of its other products, could ultimately be designated a systemically important non-bank financial company by the FSOC. While the FSOC's authority is subject to scrutiny amidst the political uncertainty and regulatory environment in the U.S., in management's view, the issuance of final regulations pertaining to systemically important non-bank financial companies is, and any reforms ultimately put into effect would be, detrimental to Federated's money market fund business and could materially and adversely affect Federated's business, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows. Federated is unable to assess at this time whether, or the degree to which, any deregulation efforts or potential options being evaluated in connection with regulatory changes and developments ultimately may be successful.. Outside of the U.S., international regulators and other authorities, such as the FCA and Central Bank of Ireland, also have adopted and proposed regulations that could increase Federated's operating expenses and adversely affect Federated's business, results of operation, financial condition and/or cash flows. In addition to other potential future regulation, an FTT, particularly if enacted with broad application, would be detrimental to Federated's fund business and could materially and adversely affect Federated's business, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows (including to Federated's non-U.S. operations). Management continues to monitor and evaluate the potential impact of European money market reforms and other regulatory developments on Federated's business, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows. Regulatory reforms stemming from Brexit, as well as the potential political and economic uncertainty surrounding Brexit or other initiatives also may adversely affect, potentially in a material way, Federated's business, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows (including to Federated's non-U.S. operations). See Item 1- Business under the caption Regulatory Matters for additional information regarding Brexit, European money market fund reforms, and the EU FTT and UK FTT. Among other potential impacts, compliance risks, the cost of compliance and other operational expenses have increased, and may continue to increase, it may become more difficult to passport products between the UK and EU Member States, and certain money market fund products may become less attractive to institutional or other investors, which could result in changes in asset mix and reductions in AUM, revenues and operating income. The designation as a non-bank, non-insurance company global systemically important financial institution by the FSB also could have a material adverse effect on Federated's business, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows. See Item 1- Business under the caption Regulatory Matters for additional information regarding non-bank, non-insurance company global systemically important financial institution designations by the FSB. Among other potential impacts, any such designation would subject the designated entity to enhanced banking-oriented measures, including, for example, capital and liquidity requirements, leverage limits, enhanced public disclosures and risk management requirements, thereby increasing compliance risk and compliance costs. Federated is unable to assess the degree of any potential impact that Brexit, European money market reforms, an FTT or other regulatory reforms or initiatives may have on its business, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows until negotiations for the UK's exit are completed, such regulatory developments receive final approval and become effective or an FTT is enacted. Federated also is unable to assess whether, or the degree to which Federated, any of its investment management subsidiaries or any of the Federated Funds, including money market funds, or any of its other products, could ultimately be determined to be a non-bank, non-insurance company global systemically important financial institution at this time.. Changes in laws, regulations, rules, interpretations or governmental policies, domestically and abroad, also impact the financial intermediaries, service providers (or vendors), customers and other third-parties with whom Federated, and its products (such as the Federated Funds), conduct business. For example, provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act or the Final Fiduciary Rule may affect intermediaries' sale or use of Federated's products or strategies. Among other potential impacts, these changes are affecting, and may continue to affect, Federated's arrangements with these intermediaries, and may continue to increase fee pressure, reduce the number of Federated products and strategies offered by intermediaries, cause certain clients or intermediaries to favor passive products over actively managed products, increase respective operating expenses and distribution costs, result in lower AUM, change asset flows, levels and mix, and otherwise affect the conduct of Federated's or such intermediaries' respective. 21. businesses. This also resulted, and will likely continue to result, in Federated or one or more of these third parties seeking to restructure or alter their compensation or other terms of the business arrangements between Federated or its products (including the Federated Funds) and one or more of these third parties. The above factors could have a material adverse impact on Federated's business, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. Federated's business also has been, and will continue to be, impacted by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (Tax Act), signed into law on December 22, 2017. See Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the caption Business Developments for additional information. In addition, various service industries, including, for example, mutual fund service providers, have been, and continue to be, the subject of changes in tax policy that impact their state and local tax liability. Changes that have been adopted or proposed include (1) an expansion of the nature of a service company's activities that subject it to tax in a jurisdiction, (2) a change in the methodology by which multi-state companies apportion their income between jurisdictions, and (3) a requirement that affiliated companies calculate their state tax as one combined entity. As adopted changes become effective and additional jurisdictions effect similar changes, among other potential impacts, there could be a material adverse effect on Federated's tax liability and effective tax rate and, as a result, net income. Various investment products also may be impacted by tax changes, which could have an adverse effect on the products and Federated's business, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. Potential Adverse Effect of Providing Financial Support to Investment Products. Federated may, from time to time, elect to provide financial support to its sponsored investment products (such as the Federated Funds). Providing such support utilizes capital that would otherwise be available for other corporate purposes. Losses resulting from such support, or failure to have or devote sufficient capital to support products, could have a material adverse effect on Federated's business (including, but not limited to, its reputation), results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. Risk of Federated's Money Market Products' Ability to Maintain a Stable Net Asset Value. Approximately 41% of Federated's total revenue for 2017 was attributable to money market assets. An investment in money market funds is neither insured nor guaranteed by the FDIC or any other government agency. Federated's retail and government money market funds, as well as its private and collective money market funds, seek to maintain a stable NAV. Although stable NAV money market funds seek to maintain an NAV of $1.00 per share, it is possible for an investor to lose money by investing in these funds. Federated also offers institutional prime or municipal (or tax-exempt) money market funds which transact at a fluctuating NAV that uses four-decimal-place precision ($1.0000). It is possible for an investor to lose money by investing in these funds. Federated devotes substantial resources, such as significant credit analysis and attention to security valuation in connection with the management of its products and strategies. However, the NAV of an institutional prime or municipal (or tax-exempt) money market fund can fluctuate, and there is no guarantee that a government or retail (i.e. stable NAV) money market fund will be able to preserve a stable NAV in the future. Market conditions could lead to a limited supply of money market securities and severe liquidity issues and/or declines in interest rates or additional prolonged periods of low yields in money market products or strategies, and regulatory changes or developments could lead to shifts in asset levels and mix, which could impact money market fund NAVs and performance. If the NAV of a Federated stable NAV money market fund were to decline to less than $1.00 per share, such Federated money market fund would likely experience significant redemptions, resulting in reductions in AUM, loss of shareholder confidence and reputational harm, all of which could cause material adverse effects on Federated's business, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows. It is also possible that, if an institutional prime or municipal (or tax-exempt) money market fund's fluctuating NAV consistently or significantly declines to less than $1.0000 per share, such Federated money market fund could experience significant redemptions, resulting in reductions in AUM, loss of shareholder confidence and reputational harm, all of which could cause material adverse effects on Federated's business, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. No Assurance of Access to Sufficient Liquidity. From time to time, Federated's operations may require more cash than is available from operations. In these circumstances, it may be necessary to borrow from lending facilities or to raise capital by securing new debt or by selling shares of Federated equity or debt securities. Federated's ability to raise additional capital in the future will be affected by several factors including, for example, Federated's creditworthiness and the market value of Federated's common stock, as well as general market conditions. There can be no assurance that Federated will be able to obtain these funds and financing on acceptable terms, if at all, and, if Federated cannot obtain such funds, it could have a material adverse effect on Federated's business, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. Recruiting and Retaining Key Personnel. Federated's ability to attract and retain quality personnel has contributed significantly to its growth and success and is important to attracting and retaining customers. The market for qualified executives, portfolio managers, analysts, traders, sales representatives and other key personnel is extremely competitive. There can be no assurance that Federated will be successful in its efforts to recruit and retain the required personnel. In addition to competing opportunities, personnel elect to pursue other interests for business, personal and other reasons or retire from time to time. Federated has encouraged the continued retention of its executives and other key personnel through measures such as providing competitive compensation arrangements and, in certain cases, employment agreements. The loss of any such. 22. personnel could have an adverse effect on Federated. In certain circumstances, the departure of key employees could cause higher redemption rates for certain AUM or the loss of customer accounts or relationships. Moreover, since certain of Federated's products and strategies, or customer relationships, contribute significantly to its revenues and earnings, the loss of even a small number of key personnel associated with these products or strategies, or customer relationships, could have a disproportionate adverse impact, potentially in a material way, on Federated's business, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. Various executives, investment, sales and other key personnel own restricted stock subject to vesting periods of up to ten years from the date awarded and to provisions that require resale or forfeiture to Federated in certain circumstances upon termination of employment. In addition, certain of these employees are employed under contracts which require periodic review of compensation and contain restrictive covenants with regard to divulging confidential information and engaging in competitive activities.. Potential Adverse Effects of Increased Competition in the Investment Management Business. The investment management business is highly competitive. Federated competes in the management and distribution of investment products and strategies (such as mutual funds and Separate Accounts) with other fund management companies and investment advisors, national and regional broker/dealers, commercial banks, insurance companies and other institutions. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources and brand recognition than Federated. Competition is based on various factors, including, among others, business reputation, investment performance, quality of service, the strength and continuity of management and selling relationships, distribution services offered, the type (e.g., passive versus actively managed, fund versus FDIC-insured deposits) and range of products and strategies offered and fees charged. As with any highly competitive market, competitive pricing structures are important. If competitors charge lower fees for similar products or strategies, Federated may decide to reduce the fees on its own products or strategies (either directly on a gross basis or on a net basis through fee waivers) in order to retain or attract customers. Such fee reductions, or other effects of competition, could have a material adverse effect on Federated's business, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. Many of Federated's products and strategies are designed for use by institutions such as banks, insurance companies and other corporations. A large portion of Federated's managed assets, particularly money market and fixed-income assets, are held by institutional investors. If or when the structure of institutional investment products, such as money market funds, changes or becomes disfavored by institutions, whether due to regulatory or market changes or otherwise, Federated may be unable to retain or grow its share of this market and this could adversely affect Federated's future profitability and have a material adverse effect on Federated's business, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. A significant portion of Federated's revenue is derived from providing products (such as mutual funds) and strategies to the wealth management and trust market, comprising approximately 4,200 banks and other financial institutions. Future profitability of Federated will be adversely affected if it is unable to retain or grow its share of this market, and could also be adversely affected by consolidations in the banking and securities industries, as well as regulatory changes or developments impacting its customers.. Potential Adverse Effects of Changes in Federated's Distribution Channels. Federated acts as a wholesaler of investment products and strategies to financial intermediaries, including, for example, banks, broker/dealers, registered investment advisors and other financial planners. Federated also sells investment products and strategies directly to corporations, institutions and other customers. There can be no assurance that Federated will continue to have access to any financial intermediary or financial intermediaries that currently distribute Federated products and strategies or that Federated's relationship with any one or more financial intermediaries or other customers will continue over time or on existing economic terms. The impact of Voluntary Yield-related Fee Waivers and related reductions in distribution expense can vary depending upon, among other variables, changes in distribution models, changes in the distribution fee arrangements with one or more financial intermediaries, changes in customer relationships and changes in the extent to which the impact of the waivers is shared by one or more financial intermediaries. In addition, exclusive of the impacts of Voluntary Yield-related Fee Waivers and related reductions in distribution expense, Federated has experienced increases in the cost of distribution as a percentage of total fund revenue from 34% in 2007 to 36% in 2017. Federated expects such costs to continue to increase in total due to asset growth, and per dollar of revenue earned due to the competitive pressures of the investment management business. Higher distribution costs reduce Federated's operating and net income.. Potential Adverse Effects of Declines in the Amount of or Changes in the Mix of Assets Under Management. A significant portion of Federated's revenue is derived from investment advisory fees, which are based on the value of managed assets and vary with the type of asset being managed, with higher fees generally earned on equity products and strategies than on fixed-income and money market products and strategies. Likewise, mutual fund and other fund products generally have a higher management-fee rate than Separate Accounts. Additionally, certain components of distribution expense can vary depending upon the asset class, distribution channel and/or the size or structure of the customer relationship. Consequently, significant. 23. fluctuations in the value of securities held by, or the level of redemptions from, the products (such as the Federated Funds) or strategies advised by Federated may materially affect the amount of managed assets and thus Federated's revenue, profitability and growth. Similarly, changes in Federated's average asset mix across both asset and product or strategy types have a direct impact on Federated's revenue and profitability. Federated generally pays out a larger portion of the revenue earned from managed assets in money market funds than the revenue earned from managed assets in equity or fixed-income funds. Substantially all of Federated's managed assets are in investment products or strategies that permit investors to redeem or withdraw their investment at any time. Additionally, changing market conditions may cause a shift in Federated's asset mix towards money market and fixed-income products or strategies, and regulatory changes or developments may cause a shift between money fund products or from money market funds to other products, which may cause a decline in or otherwise affect, potentially in a material way, Federated's revenue and net income.. Potential Adverse Effects of Poor Investment Performance. Success in the investment management business is largely dependent on investment performance relative to market conditions and the performance of competing products and strategies. Good performance generally assists retention and growth of managed assets, resulting in additional revenues. Conversely, poor performance tends to result in decreased sales and increased redemptions with corresponding decreases in revenues to Federated. Poor performance could, therefore, have a material adverse effect on Federated's business (including, but not limited to, business prospects), results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows. Market conditions, such as volatility, illiquidity and rising interest rates, among other conditions, can adversely affect the performance of certain quantitative or other investment strategies or certain products, asset classes or sectors. The effects of poor performance on Federated could be magnified where assets or customers are concentrated in certain strategies, products, asset classes or sectors.. Operational Risks. Federated's products, business and operations are supported internally and through management of relationships with various third party service providers (or vendors), both domestically and internationally. In turn, service providers' operations rely on additional relationships with other third parties. Operational risks include, but are not limited to, improper, inefficient, or unauthorized execution, processing, pricing and/or monitoring of transactions, deficiencies in operating systems, business disruptions, inadequacies or breaches in Federated's, its products' or a service provider's internal control processes, unauthorized disclosure of confidential, proprietary or non-public personal information and noncompliance with regulatory requirements, investment parameters or customer-imposed restrictions. As Federated's and its relevant service providers' businesses expand and require additional scalability, operational risk increases both domestically and internationally. Management relies on its employees, systems and business continuity plans, and those of relevant service providers, to comply with established procedures, controls, regulatory requirements, investment parameters or customer-imposed restrictions. Breakdown or improper use of systems, human error or improper action by employees or service providers, or noncompliance with regulations or other rules, investment parameters or customer-imposed restrictions could cause material adverse effects on Federated's business (including, but not limited to, its reputation), results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. No Assurance of Successful Acquisitions. Federated's business strategy contemplates seeking acquisition candidates, including acquisitions of other investment management companies and investment assets, both domestically and internationally. There can be no assurance that Federated will find suitable acquisition candidates at acceptable prices, have sufficient capital resources to realize its acquisition strategy, be successful in entering into definitive agreements for or consummating desired acquisitions, or successfully integrating acquired companies or assets into Federated, or its products or strategies, or that any such acquisitions, if consummated, will prove to be advantageous to Federated.. Impairment Risk. At December 31, 2017, Federated had intangible assets including goodwill totaling $736.9 million on its Consolidated Balance Sheets, the vast majority of which represents assets capitalized in connection with Federated's acquisitions and business combinations. Federated may not realize the value of these assets. Management performs an annual review of the carrying values of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets and periodic reviews of the carrying values of all other assets to determine whether events and circumstances indicate that an impairment in value may have occurred. A variety of factors could cause the carrying value of an asset to become impaired. Should a review indicate impairment, a write-down of the carrying value of the asset would occur, resulting in a noncash charge which would adversely affect Federated's financial position and results of operations for the period.. Systems, Technology and Cybersecurity Risks. Federated utilizes software and related technologies throughout its business (both domestically and internationally) including, for example, both proprietary systems and those provided by outside service providers (or vendors). Service providers to, and customers of, Federated and its products, and third parties on which such service providers and customers rely, also utilize software and related technologies in their businesses. Unanticipated issues could occur and it is not possible to predict with certainty all of the adverse effects that could result from a failure of Federated or a third party to address technology or computer system problems. Along with cyber incidents described more fully below, data or model imprecision, software or other technology malfunctions, human error, programming inaccuracies and similar or other circumstances or events may impair the performance of systems and technology. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that potential system interruptions, other technology-related issues or the cost necessary to rectify the problems would not have. 24. a material adverse effect on Federated's business (including, but not limited to, business prospects), results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. In addition, like other companies in the investment management industry and elsewhere, Federated's business relies on the security and reliability of information and communications technology, systems and networks. Federated uses digital technology, including, for example, networked systems, email and the Internet, to conduct business operations and engage clients, customers, employees, products, accounts, shareholders and relevant service providers, among others. The use of the Internet and other electronic media, computers and technology exposes Federated, its business, its products and strategies and services, customers, and relevant service providers, and their respective operations, to potential risks from frequent cybersecurity attacks, events or incidents (cyber incidents). For example, Federated and relevant service providers collect, maintain and transmit confidential, proprietary and non-public personal customer information (such as in connection with online account access and performing investment, reconciliation, transfer agent, custodian and other recordkeeping and related functions) that can be targeted by cyber incidents. Federated, as well as its products and certain service providers, also generate, compile and process information for purposes of preparing and making filings or reports to governmental agencies, and a cyber incident that impacts that information, or the generation and filing processes, may prevent required regulatory filings and reports from being made.. Cyber incidents can result from intentional (or deliberate) attacks or unintentional events by insiders or third parties, including cybercriminals, competitors, nation-states and \"hacktivists,\" among others. Cyber incidents may include, for example, phishing, use of stolen access credentials, unauthorized access to systems, networks or devices (for example, through hacking activity), structured query language attaches, infection from or spread of malware, ransomware, computer viruses or other malicious software code, corruption of data, and attacks (including, but not limited to, denial-of-service attacks on websites) which shut down, disable, slow, impair or otherwise disrupt operations, business processes, technology, connectivity or website or internet access, functionality or performance. In addition to intentional cyber incidents, unintentional cyber incidents can occur (for example, the inadvertent release of confidential or non-public personal information).. Like other companies, Federated has experienced, and will continue to experience, cyber incidents consistently. As of December 31, 2017, cyber incidents have not had a material adverse effect on Federated's business, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows. Cyber incidents can affect, potentially in a material way, Federated's relationships with its clients, customers, employees, products, accounts, shareholders and relevant service providers. A cyber incident may cause Federated, its business, products or services, employees, customers, or relevant service providers, to lose proprietary, sensitive, confidential or non-public business, customer, employee or personal information, or intellectual property, suffer data corruption or business interruption, lose operational capacity (for example, the loss of the ability to process transactions, calculate NAVs, or allow the transaction of business, or other disruptions to operations), and/or fail to comply with applicable privacy and other laws. Among other potentially harmful effects, cyber incidents also may result in theft, unauthorized monitoring and failures in the physical infrastructure or operating systems. Any cyber incident could cause lost revenues, the occurrence of other financial losses, diminished future cash flows, significant increases in compliance or other costs or expenses (such as costs associated with compliance with cybersecurity laws and regulations and with protection, detection, remediation and corrective measures), exposure to increased litigation and legal risks (such as regulatory actions and penalties, and breach of contract or other litigation-related fees and expenses), reputational damage, damage to competitiveness, stock price and shareholder value, and other negative or adverse impacts. Cyber incidents affecting issuers in which Federated's or its customers' assets are invested also could cause such investments to lose value. Any of these cyber incidents may become incrementally worse if they were to remain undetected for an extended period of time. The operating systems of Federated, its products, its customers and relevant service providers are dependent on the effectiveness of information security policies and procedures which seek to ensure that such systems are protected from cyber incidents. Federated has established a committee to oversee Federated's information security and data governance efforts, and updates on cyber incidents and risks are reviewed with relevant committees, as well as Federated's Board of Directors, on a periodic (generally quarterly) basis (and more frequently when circumstances warrant) as part of risk management oversight responsibilities. Federated has, and believes its products and its service providers have, established risk management systems that are reasonably designed to seek to reduce the risks associated with cyber incidents. Federated employs various measures aimed at mitigating cyber risk, including, among others, use of firewalls, system segmentation, system monitoring, virus scanning, periodic penetration testing, employee phishing training and an employee cybersecurity awareness campaign. Among other vendor management efforts, Federated also conducts due diligence on key service providers (or vendors) relating to cybersecurity. However, there is no guarantee that such efforts will be successful, either entirely or partially, as there are limits on Federated's ability to prevent or mitigate cyber incidents. Among other reasons, the cybersecurity landscape is constantly evolving, the nature of malicious cyber incidents is becoming increasingly sophisticated and Federated, and its relevant affiliates and products, cannot control the systems and cybersecurity systems and practices of issuers, relevant service providers or other third parties. Federated's risk from cyber incidents also can increase as a result of expansion into new markets, domestic or international acquisitions, new technology, or previously unexploited vulnerabilities in software or related patches becoming activated (or \"weaponized\") by hackers. While Federated cannot predict. 25. the financial or reputational impact to its business resulting from any cyber incident, depending upon the nature, magnitude and severity of a cyber incident, the occurrence of a cyber incident, or a similar situation or incident, could have a material adverse effect on Federated's business (including, but not limited to, its reputation), results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows. The internal and external resources and efforts necessary to implement system and technology upgrades, data governance and cybersecurity policies, procedures and measures, including, for example, technology, systems, skilled personnel and service providers (or vendors), as well as vendor management, have, and will continue to, increase Federated's operating expenses, and can adversely effect, potentially in a material way, Federated's business, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. Potential Adverse Effects of Reputational Harm. Any material losses in customer (including shareholder) confidence in Federated, its products or strategies or in the mutual fund industry as a result of actual or potential regulatory proceedings or litigation, economic or financial market downturns or disruptions, material errors in public news reports, misconduct, a cyber incident, rumors on the Internet or other matters could increase redemptions from and/or reduce sales of Federated's products (such as the Federated Funds) and strategies and other investment management products and services. If such losses were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on Federated's business (including, but not limited to, business prospects), results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. Potential Adverse Effects of Termination or Failure to Renew Advisory Agreements. A substantial majority of Federated's revenues are derived from investment advisory agreements with Federated Funds (and to a lesser extent, sub-advised mutual funds) that, as required by law, are terminable upon 60 days' notice. In addition, each such investment advisory agreement must be approved and renewed annually by each mutual fund's board of directors or trustees, including independent members of the board, or its shareholders, as required by law. Failure to renew, changes resulting in lower fees under, or termination of, certain or a significant number of, these agreements could have a material adverse impact on Federated's business, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows. As required by the 1940 Act, each investment advisory agreement with a mutual fund automatically terminates upon its assignment, although new investment advisory agreements may be approved by the mutual fund's directors or trustees and shareholders. A sale or other transfer of a sufficient number of shares of Federated's voting securities to transfer control of Federated could be deemed an assignment in certain circumstances. An assignment, actual or constructive, will trigger these termination provisions and may adversely affect Federated's ability to realize the value of these agreements. Federated's investment advisory agreements for Separate Accounts that are not investment companies subject to the 1940 Act are generally terminable upon notice to Federated (or in certain cases, after a 30 day, 60 day or similar notice period). As required by the Advisers Act, investment advisory agreements for Separate Accounts that are not investment companies subject to the 1940 Act also provide that consent is required from Federated's customers before the agreements may be assigned and an assignment, actual or constructive, also will trigger these consent requirements and may adversely affect Federated's ability to realize the value of these agreements.. Under the terms of a 2005 settlement agreement with the SEC and New York State Attorney General, as amended, a Federated investment advisory subsidiary may not serve as investment advisor to any registered investment company unless: (1) at least 75% of the fund's directors are independent of Federated; (2) the chairman of each such fund is independent of Federated; and (3) no action may be taken by the fund's board of directors or trustees or any committee thereof unless approved by a majority of the independent board members of the fund or committee, respectively.. Potential Adverse Effects of Unpredictable Events. Unpredictable events, such as a natural disaster, pandemic, war, terrorist attack or other business continuity event, or unexpected market, economic or political developments, could adversely impact Federated's, its customer's and their respective service providers' (or vendors') ability to conduct business. Such events could cause disruptions in economic conditions and financial markets, system interruption, loss of life, unavailability of personnel, an inability to provide information or services, and/or additional costs. There also may be times when industry databases or other third parties publish or distribute information regarding Federated, or its products or services (including Federated Fund asset levels), that may be inaccurate or incomplete, and there can be no assurance that a third-party will interpret or report information accurately. As such, there can be no assurance that unpredictable or unexpected events, or the costs to address such events or inaccurate reports, would not have a material adverse effect on Federated's business (including, but not limited to, business prospects), results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. Risks Related to Auditor Independence. Public companies, such as Federated, utilize the audit services of a registered public accounting firm (Accounting Firm) to audit or review their financial statements included in certain public filings, such as their Annual Reports on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. The Accounting Firm is required to make a determination that such firm satisfies certain independence requirements under the federal securities laws. Like other public companies, there is a risk that activities or relationships of the Accounting Firm engaged by Federated, or such firm's partners or employees, can prevent a determination from being made that such firm satisfies such independence requirements with respect to Federated, which could render such firm ineligible to serve as Federated's independent Accounting Firm. Since Federated's independent Accounting Firm, like the Accounting Firms of many other public companies that sponsor and advise investment funds, acts in. 26. a similar capacity to several Federated Funds sponsored and advised by Federated, if a determination cannot be made that the Accounting Firm satisfies the independence requirements with respect to an applicable Federated Fund, the Accounting Firm also could be prevented from making a determination that it satisfies the independence requirements with respect to Federated, since Federated is an affiliate (i.e., the ultimate parent company) of the investment advisor to the relevant Federated Fund.. For example, Rule 2-01(c)(1)(ii)(A) of Regulation S-X (Loan Rule) prohibits Accounting Firms, or covered person professionals within the firms, from having certain financial relationships with their audit clients and affiliated entities. Federated's independent Accounting Firm, Ernst & Young LLP (EY), has advised Federated (and may in the future advise Federated) that EY or covered person professionals within the firm have lending relationships with certain lenders where the lenders, or their affiliates that control them, own beneficially or of record greater than 10% of the equity securities of certain Federated Funds which could prevent a determination that the firm satisfies the independence requirements.. On June 20, 2016, the Division of Investment Management (Division) of the SEC issued a no-action letter under which an Accounting Firm can continue to serve as an independent registered public accountant for an audit client if certain conditions are met, including that a determination is made that the Accounting Firm's objectivity or judgment has not been impaired. In each case involving EY noted above, the relief provided under the June 20, 2016 no-action letter has been relied upon. The no-action letter states that the Division would not object to a relevant entity (such as an investment fund, its affiliates or its investment advisor or such investment advisor's affiliates) continuing to satisfy (and would not recommend enforcement action if such a relevant entity continues to satisfy) applicable regulatory requirements under the federal securities laws by using the audit services provided by an Accounting Firm that may not be in compliance with the Loan Rule, so long as the requisite conditions are satisfied. If a circumstance arises in which the relief provided by the no-action letter would not be available, Federated and EY would explore other appropriate actions. The no-action letter was initially effective for 18 months (or until December 20, 2017). On September 22, 2017, the Division extended the no-action letter past December 20, 2017 until amendments to the Loan Rule that are designed to address the concerns of the no-action letter are promulgated and become effective.. There can be no assurance that the circumstances in any particular case will satisfy the conditions of the no-action letter and, therefore, that the relief provided by the no-action letter will be able to be relied upon, or that the applicable independence requirements under the federal securities laws will otherwise continue to be satisfied such that EY will remain eligible to serve as the independent Accounting Firm to Federated.. If it were to be determined that the relief available under the no-action letter was improperly relied upon, or that the independence requirements under the federal securities laws were not otherwise complied with regarding Federated, Federated's previously filed Annual Reports on Form 10-K (including financial statements audited by EY) and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q (including financial statements reviewed by EY) may not be considered compliant with the applicable federal securities laws. If it were to be determined that EY did not comply with the independence requirements, among other things, the financial statements audited by EY and the interim financial statements reviewed by EY may have to be audited and reviewed, respectively, by another independent Accounting Firm, Federated's eligibility to issue securities under its existing registration statements may be impacted and certain financial reporting and/or other covenants with, and representations and warranties to, Federated's lenders may be impacted. Similar issues would arise for a Federated Fund for which EY (or another Accounting Firm) serves as such Federated Fund's independent Accounting Firm if it were to be determined that the no-action letter was improperly relied upon, or EY (or such other Accounting Firm) otherwise was not in compliance with the independence requirements under the federal securities laws, with respect to such Federated Fund. In either case, such events could have a material adverse effect on Federated's business, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. Potential Adverse Effects of Litigation, Investigations, Proceedings and Other Claims. Federated can be subject to routine, sweep and other examinations, inquiries, investigations, proceedings (administrative, regulatory, civil or otherwise) and other claims by its regulators (regulatory claims). Federated also can be subject to customer, and other third-party, complaints, proceedings (such as civil litigation) and other claims (business-related claims). Among other factors, as Federated's business, products and strategies expand, Federated enters new countries or markets, and financial products and other investments, markets and technology increase in complexity, the attention and resources that Federated devotes to compliance increases and the possibility and occurrences of non-compliance may increase. Federated has business-related claims asserted and threatened against it, and is subject to certain regulatory claims (such as routine and sweep examinations and other inquiries), in the ordinary course of business. In addition, Federated may be subject to business-related claims, and administrative, regulatory or civil investigations and proceedings or other regulatory claims, outside of the ordinary course of business. Federated cannot assess or predict whether, when or what types of business-related claims or regulatory claims (collectively, claims) may be threatened or asserted, the types or amounts of damages or other remedies that may be sought (which may be material when threatened or asserted), whether claims that have been threatened will become formal asserted pending investigations, proceedings or litigation, or whether claims ultimately may be successful (whether through settlement or adjudication), entirely or in part, whether or not any such claims are threatened or asserted in or outside the ordinary course of business. Federated. 27. may be initially unable to accurately assess a claim's impact. Given that the outcome of any claim is inherently unpredictable and uncertain, a result may arise from time to time that adversely impacts, potentially in a material way, Federated's business, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows. In certain circumstances, insurance coverage may not be available or deductible amounts may not be exceeded, and Federated may have to bear the costs related to claims or any losses or other liabilities resulting from any such matters, or from the operation of Federated's business, products and services generally.. Federated's Status as a \"Controlled Company.\" Federated has two classes of common stock: Class A Common Stock, which has voting power, and Class B Common Stock, which is non-voting except in certain limited circumstances. All of the outstanding shares of Federated's Class A Common Stock are held by the Voting Shares Irrevocable Trust for the benefit of certain members of the Donahue family. The three trustees of this trust are Federated's President and Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, J. Christopher Donahue, his brother, Thomas R. Donahue, Federated's Vice President, Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer and a director, and their mother, Rhodora J. Donahue. Accordingly, Federated qualifies as a \"controlled company\" under Section 303A of the NYSE Listed Company Manual. As a controlled company, Federated qualifies for and relies upon exemptions from several NYSE corporate governance requirements, including requirements that: (1) a majority of the board of directors consists of independent directors; and (2) the entity maintains a nominating/corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities. As a result, Federated's board does not have a majority of independent directors nor does it maintain a nominating/corporate governance committee. Federated is also exempt as a \"controlled company\" from certain additional independence requirements and responsibilities regarding compensation advisors applicable to Compensation Committee members."
