[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. We are subject to various risks in our business operations as described below. The risks and uncertainties described below are the. known risk factors we consider material.  Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known, or currently deemed immaterial, may also impair our business operations.  Investors should carefully consider these risks before making an investment decision.. Risks Related to Our Business. Our financial condition could be adversely affected by the occurrence of natural and man-made disasters.. We write insurance policies that cover homeowners, business owners and automobile owners for losses that result from, among other things, catastrophes and sinkholes.  Catastrophic losses can be caused by natural events such as hurricanes, tropical storms, tornadoes, wind, hail, fires, explosions and other events.  The incidence and severity of these events are inherently unpredictable.  Catastrophic losses can also be caused by terrorist attacks, war, riots, political instability and other man-made events.  The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of two factors:  the total amount of the insurance company's exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event.  Our homeowners policyholders are disbursed throughout the southeast United States, although the majority of our policyholders are located in Florida.  Further, a substantial portion of our Florida homeowners policyholders, are located in southeastern Florida, and therefore are especially subject to adverse weather conditions such as hurricanes and tropical storms.. The occurrence of claims from catastrophic events can result in substantial volatility in our results of operations or financial condition for any fiscal quarter or years as seen in 2017 and 2016.   An elevation in the values and concentrations of insured property may increase the severity of the occurrence of claims in the future.  Although we attempt to manage our exposure to such events through the use of underwriting controls and the purchase of third-party reinsurance, catastrophic events are inherently unpredictable and the actual nature of such events when they occur could be more frequent or severe than contemplated in our pricing and risk management expectations.  As a result, the occurrence of one or more catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.. Florida, South Carolina and Texas, all states in which we write homeowners policies, experienced several significant hurricanes in 2016 and 2017, which some weather analysts believe is consistent with a period of greater hurricane activity.  We are exploring alternatives to reduce our exposure to these types of storms, which alternatives may increase operating expenses and may not be successful in protecting long-term profitability.  If our loss experience is more adverse than is contemplated by our loss reserves, the related increase in our loss reserves may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the increase occurs.. Our loss reserves are estimates and may be inadequate to cover our actual liability for losses, causing our results of operations to be adversely affected.. We maintain reserves to cover our estimated ultimate liabilities for losses and LAE.  These reserves are estimates based on historical data and statistical projections of what we believe the settlement and administration of claims will cost based on facts and circumstances then known to us.  Actual loss and LAE reserves, however, may vary significantly from our estimates. Factors that affect loss and LAE reserves include the estimates made on a claim-by-claim basis known as \"case reserves\" coupled with bulk estimates known as IBNR. Periodic estimates by management of the ultimate costs required to settle all claim files are based on our analysis of historical data and estimations of the impact of numerous factors such as:. •  per-claim information;. •  company and industry historical loss experience, including the impact of trends such as the assignment of benefits (\"AOB\") by insureds;. •  legislative enactments, judicial decisions, legal developments in the awarding of damages, and changes in political attitudes;  and. •   trends in general economic conditions, including the effects of inflation.. Management revises its estimates based on the results of its analysis. This process assumes that past experience, adjusted for the effects of current developments and anticipated trends, is an appropriate basis for estimating the ultimate settlement of all claims. There is no precise method for subsequently evaluating the impact of any specific factor on the adequacy of the reserves, because the eventual redundancy or deficiency is affected by multiple factors.  Because of the uncertainties that surround estimated loss reserves, we cannot be certain that our reserves will be adequate to cover our actual losses.  If our loss and LAE reserves are less than actual losses and LAE, we will be required to increase our reserves with a corresponding reduction in our net income in the. -. 12. -. Table of Contents. period in which the deficiency is identified. Future loss experience, substantially in excess of our loss and LAE reserves, could substantially harm our results of operations and financial condition.. Although we follow the industry practice of reinsuring a portion of our risks, our costs of obtaining reinsurance fluctuates and we may not be able to successfully alleviate risk through reinsurance arrangements.. We have a reinsurance structure that is a combination of private reinsurance and the FHCF.  Our reinsurance structure is composed of several reinsurance companies with varying levels of participation providing coverage for losses and LAE at pre-established minimum and maximum amounts.  Losses incurred in connection with a catastrophic event below the minimum and above the maximum are the responsibility of FNIC and MNIC.. The availability and costs associated with the acquisition of reinsurance varies year to year. We are not able to control these fluctuations which may be significant and may limit our ability to purchase adequate coverage.  The recovery of increased reinsurance costs through rate increases is not immediate and cannot be presumed, as rate increases are subject to approval of the Florida OIR.. We face a risk of non-collectability of reinsurance, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. As is common practice within the insurance industry, we transfer a portion of the risks insured under our policies to other companies through the purchase of reinsurance.  This reinsurance is maintained to protect our insurance subsidiary against the severity of losses on individual claims, unusually serious occurrences in which a number of claims produce an aggregate extraordinary loss and other catastrophic events.  Although reinsurance does not discharge our insurance subsidiary from its primary obligation to pay for losses insured under the policies it issues, reinsurance does make the assuming reinsurer liable to the insurance subsidiary for the reinsured portion of the risk.  A credit exposure exists with respect to ceded losses to the extent that any reinsurer is unable or unwilling to meet the obligations assumed under the reinsurance contracts.  The collectability of reinsurance is subject to the solvency of the reinsurers, interpretation of contract language and other factors.  A reinsurer's insolvency or inability to make payments under the terms of a reinsurance contract could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our reinsurance structure has significant risks, including the fact that the FHCF or our other reinsurers may not have available capital resources to pay their claims or that their ability to pay their claims in a timely manner may be impaired. This could result in significant financial, legal and operational challenges to our company.  Therefore, in the event of a catastrophic loss, we may become dependent upon the FHCF's and our other reinsurers' ability to pay their claims.  With respect to the FHCF, we may, in turn, be dependent upon the ability of the State Board of Administration of Florida (\"SBA\") to issue bonds in amounts that would be required to meet its reinsurance obligations in the event of such a catastrophic loss.. If we are unable to continue our growth because our capital must be used to pay greater than anticipated claims, our financial results may suffer.. Our ability to grow in the future will depend on our ability to expand the types of insurance products we offer and the geographic markets in which we do business, both balanced by the business risks we choose to assume and cede.  We believe that our company is sufficiently capitalized to operate our business as it now exists and as we currently plan to expand it.  Our existing sources of funds include issuance of debt securities, possible sales of our investment securities, and our earnings from operations and investments.  Unexpected catastrophic events in our market areas, such as the hurricanes experienced in Florida, South Carolina and Texas in 2016 and 2017, have resulted and may result in greater claims losses than anticipated, which could require us to limit or halt our growth while we redeploy our capital to pay these unanticipated claims.. The failure of any of the loss limitation methods we employ could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or our results of operations.. Various provisions of our policies, such as limitations or exclusions from coverage which have been negotiated to limit our risks, may not be enforceable in the manner we intend. At the present time, we employ a variety of exclusions to our policies that limit exposure to known risks, including, but not limited to, exclusions relating to certain named liabilities, types of vehicles and specific artisan activities.  In addition, the policies we issue contain conditions requiring the prompt reporting of claims to us and our right to decline coverage in the event of a violation of that condition. While we believe our insurance product exclusions and limitations reduce the loss exposure to us and help eliminate known exposures to certain risks, it is possible that a court or regulatory authority could nullify or void an exclusion or that legislation could be enacted modifying or barring the use of such endorsements and limitations in a way that would adversely affect our loss experience, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. -. 13. -. Table of Contents. Trends in claims and coverage issues have had, and may continue to have, a material adverse impact on our business.. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage emerge. These issues adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until sometime after we have issued insurance policies that are affected by the changes. As a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance policies may not be known for many years after a policy is issued.. An example of an existing trend, particularly in Florida homeowners insurance, is the assignment of homeowner benefits for a claim where a service provider agrees to make a repair that may be covered by an insurance policy in exchange for the policyholder's right to sue the insurance carrier directly. The assignment of the insurance benefits has substantially increased, and may continue to increase, our exposure to inflated claims, attorney's fees and costs. Although legislative actions in the State of Florida to limit the effect of AOB on insurance companies are being contemplated, there can be no assurances that any such legislative actions will become law or, if enacted, that such actions will have the effect of limiting the impact on us of assignments of benefits by insureds.. MNIC, which is now a wholly owned subsidiary of FNIC, has focused on the Florida homeowners insurance market since its formation, which has increased our exposure to the factors that impact the Florida insurance market generally, such as the occurrence of hurricanes, trends in claims experience, and the impact of changes in Florida insurance law and regulations.. MNIC is organized as a Florida property and casualty insurer and has initially focused on the Florida homeowners insurance market. As a result, the presence of MNIC in the Florida market increases our exposure to the factors that impact insurers in the Florida market generally, such as the occurrence of catastrophic events such as hurricanes, the trends experienced in administering and resolving claims resulting from the increased use of public adjusters, and the impact of changes in Florida's insurance laws and regulations. To the extent that these factors may adversely affect our operations, the presence of MNIC in the Florida market will have the effect of magnifying the effect of those factors.. MNIC currently writes insurance policies that have a higher risk profile than those written by FNIC, allowing MNIC to reach a broader market and charge higher premiums. While MNIC's underwriting standards attempts to avoid the highest risk policies, the occurrence of a catastrophic event would be likely to result in greater losses per policy for MNIC and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. Our failure to comply with the covenants in our senior note indenture, including as a result of events beyond our control, could result in an event of default, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. The indenture for our senior notes requires us to maintain certain financial ratios and to comply with various operational and other covenants, including limitations on our ability to incur additional debt without the approval of the existing noteholders.  If there were an event of default under the indenture that was not cured or waived, the holders of the senior notes could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to the senior notes to be due and payable immediately. We cannot assure you that our assets or cash flow would be sufficient to fully repay the senior notes, either upon maturity or, if accelerated, upon an event of default, or that we would be able to refinance or restructure the payments on the senior notes. This would have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.. We have recently issued debt securities, a portion of which bears interest at a floating rate, as a result of which we will have increased interest expense and exposure to rising interest rates.. In late December 2017, the Company issued $45 million of unsecured senior notes, $20 million of which bear interest at a fixed interest rate and $25 million of which bear interest at a floating rate of 7% above three-month LIBOR.  As such, interest expense will increase substantially in 2018 and beyond (in the range of approximately $4 million, pre-tax) from historical levels (of approximately $350,000, pre-tax).  In addition, the floating rate debt exposes the Company to the risk of further erosion of earnings if short-term interest rates rise, which they are likely to do in 2018, given the extended period of low interest rates experienced in the United States in recent years.  Each 1% increase in the three-month LIBOR will increase the Company's interest expense by $250,000, pre-tax.. -. 14. -. Table of Contents. We may require additional capital in the future which may not be available or only available on unfavorable terms.. Our future capital requirements depend on many factors, including our ability to write new business successfully and to establish premium rates and reserves at levels sufficient to cover losses.  To the extent that our capital may be insufficient to meet future operating requirements and/or cover losses, we may need to raise additional funds through financings or curtail our growth.  Many factors will affect the amount and timing of our capital needs, including our growth and profitability, our claims experience, and the availability of reinsurance, as well as possible acquisition opportunities, market disruptions and other unforeseeable developments.. If we were required to raise additional capital, equity or debt financing may not be available at all or may be available only on terms that are not favorable to us.  In the case of equity financings, dilution to our shareholders' ownership could result, and in any case such securities may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of existing shareholders.  If we raise additional funds by incurring debt financing, the terms of the debt may involve significant cash payment obligations as well as covenants and specific financial ratios that may restrict our ability to operate our business or pay dividends.  If we cannot obtain adequate capital on favorable terms or at all, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Our business is heavily regulated, and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth.. We are subject to extensive regulation in the states in which we conduct business.  This regulation is generally designed to protect the interests of policyholders, as opposed to shareholders and other investors, and relates to authorization for lines of business, capital and surplus requirements, investment limitations, underwriting limitations, transactions with affiliates, dividend limitations, changes in control, premium rates and a variety of other financial and non-financial components of an insurance company's business.  These regulatory requirements may adversely affect or inhibit our ability to achieve some or all of our business objectives.  State regulatory authorities also conduct periodic examinations into insurers' business practices. These reviews may reveal deficiencies in our insurance operations or differences between our interpretations of regulatory requirements and those of the regulators.. The NAIC and state insurance regulators are constantly reexamining existing laws and regulations, generally focusing on modifications to holding company regulations, interpretations of existing laws and the development of new laws.. From time to time, some states in which we conduct business have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state authority to regulate insurance companies and insurance holding companies.  In other situations, states in which we conduct business have considered or enacted laws that impact the competitive environment and marketplace for property and casualty insurance.   In addition, in recent years the state insurance regulatory framework has come under increased federal scrutiny.  Changes in federal legislation and administrative policies in several areas, including changes in financial services regulation and federal taxation, can significantly impact the insurance industry and us.. We cannot predict with certainty the effect any enacted, proposed or future state or federal legislation or NAIC initiatives may have on the conduct of our business.  Furthermore, there can be no assurance that the regulatory requirements applicable to our business will not become more stringent in the future or result in materially higher costs than current requirements.  Changes in the regulation of our business may reduce our profitability, limit our growth or otherwise adversely affect our operations.. We may experience financial exposure from climate change.. A body of scientific evidence indicates that climate change may be occurring.  Climate change, to the extent that it affects weather patterns, may cause an increase in the frequency and/or the severity of catastrophic events or severe weather conditions.  Our financial exposure from climate change is most notably associated with losses in connection with the occurrence of hurricanes striking Florida. We mitigate the risk of financial exposure from climate change by restrictive underwriting criteria, sensitivity to geographic concentrations, and reinsurance.. Restrictive underwriting criteria can include, but are not limited to, higher premiums and deductibles and more specifically excluded policy risks such as fences and screened-in enclosures.  New technological advances in computer generated geographical mapping afford us an enhanced perspective as to geographic concentrations of policyholders and proximity to flood prone areas.  Our amount of maximum reinsurance coverage is determined by subjecting our homeowners exposures to statistical forecasting models that are designed to quantify a catastrophic event in terms of the frequency of a storm occurring once in every \"n\" years.  If the statistical forecasting models fail to contemplate an emerging claim trend, such as the assignment of insurance benefits in Florida, then there is the risk we may not purchase adequate catastrophic wind coverage.  Our reinsurance coverage contemplates the effects of a catastrophic event that occurs only once every 100 years.  Our amount of losses retained (our deductible) in connection with a catastrophic event is determined by market capacity, pricing conditions and surplus preservation.  There can be no assurance that. -. 15. -. Table of Contents. our reinsurance coverage and other measures taken will be sufficient to mitigate losses resulting from one or more catastrophic events.. Our revenues and operating performance will fluctuate due to statutorily approved assessments that support property and casualty insurance pools and associations.. We operate in a regulatory environment where certain entities and organizations have the authority to require us to participate in assessments. Currently these entities and organizations include, but are not limited to, the Florida Joint Underwriters Association (\"JUA\"), the Florida Insurance Guaranty Association (\"FIGA\"), Citizens and the FHCF.. Insurance companies currently pass these assessments on to holders of insurance policies in the form of a policy surcharge, and reflect the collection of these assessments as fully earned credits to operations in the period collected.  The collection of these fees, however, may adversely affect our overall marketing strategy due to the competitive landscape in Florida.  As a result, the impact of possible future assessments on our balance sheet, results of operations or cash flow are indeterminable at this time.. Our investment portfolio may suffer reduced returns, or losses, which would significantly reduce our earnings.. Like other insurance companies, we depend on income from our investment portfolio for a portion of our earnings.  During the time that normally elapses between the receipt of insurance premiums and any payment of insurance claims, we invest the premiums received, together with our other available capital, primarily in debt securities and to a lesser extent in equity securities, in order to generate investment income.. Our investment portfolio contains interest rate sensitive instruments, such as bonds, which may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates.  A significant increase in interest rates or decrease in credit worthiness could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.  Declines in interest rates could have an adverse effect on our investment income.. We are required to review our investment portfolio to evaluate and assess known and inherent risks associated with each investment type.  We revise our evaluations and assessments as conditions change and new information becomes available.  This may result in changes in an other-than-temporary impairment (\"OTTI\") in our consolidated statements of income.  We base our assessment of whether an OTTI has occurred on our case-by-case evaluation of the underlying reasons for the decline in fair value.  Because historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments and additional impairments may need to be recorded in the future, no assurances can be provided that we have accurately assessed whether any such impairment is temporary or other-than-temporary or that we have accurately recorded amounts for an OTTI in our financial statements.. In addition, volatile and illiquid markets increase the likelihood that investment securities may not behave in historically predictable manners, resulting in fair value estimates that may be overstated compared with actual amounts that could be realized upon disposition or maturity of the security.  The effects of market volatility and declining economic conditions may have unforeseen consequences on the credit quality, liquidity and financial stability of the issuers of securities we hold. Such deteriorations in financial condition can occur rapidly, leaving us unable to react to such a scenario in a prudent manner consistent with our historical practices in dealing with more orderly markets.  This, in turn, could adversely and negatively affect our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition.. Our failure to pay claims accurately could adversely affect our business, financial results and capital requirements.. We must accurately evaluate and pay claims that are made under our policies.  Many factors affect our ability to pay claims accurately, including the training and experience of our claims representatives, the culture of our claims organization and the effectiveness of our management, our ability to develop or select and implement appropriate procedures and systems to support our claims functions and other factors.  Our failure to pay claims accurately could lead to material litigation, undermine our reputation in the marketplace, impair our image and negatively affect our financial results.. In addition, if we are not able to handle an increasing number of claims as a result of a catastrophic event, or if we do not train new claims adjusting employees effectively or lose a significant number of experienced claims adjusting employees, our claims department's ability to handle an increasing workload could be adversely affected.  In addition to potentially requiring that growth be slowed in the affected markets, we could suffer decreased quality of claims work, which in turn could lower our operating margins.. -. 16. -. Table of Contents. Our insurance companies are subject to minimum capital and surplus requirements, and our failure to meet these requirements could subject us to regulatory action.. Our insurance companies are subject to RBC standards and other minimum capital and surplus requirements imposed under applicable state laws, including the laws of the State of Florida.  The RBC standards, based upon the Risk Based Capital Model Act adopted by the NAIC, require our insurance companies to report their results of RBC calculations to state departments of insurance and the NAIC.  These RBC standards provide for different levels of regulatory attention depending upon the ratio of an insurance company's total adjusted capital, as calculated in accordance with NAIC guidelines, to its ACL RBC.. If we fail to meet the applicable RBC or minimum statutory capital requirements imposed by the laws of Florida or other states where we do business, we would be required to raise additional capital and we could be subject to further examination or corrective action imposed by state regulators, including limitations on out writing of additional business, additional state supervision, or liquidation.  Similarly, an increase in existing RBC requirements or minimum statutory capital requirements, such as the catastrophic risk component of RBC that took effect in 2017, may require us to increase our statutory capital levels.. Ratios calculated based on RBC tend to be a key criteria in the assignment of ratings by insurance rating agencies.. Our revenues and operating performance may fluctuate with business cycles in the property and casualty insurance industry.. Historically, the financial performance of the property and casualty insurance industry has tended to fluctuate in cyclical patterns characterized by periods of significant competition in pricing and underwriting terms and conditions, which is known as a \"soft\" insurance market, followed by periods of lessened competition and increasing premium rates, which is known as a \"hard\" insurance market.  Although an individual insurance company's financial performance is dependent upon its own specific business characteristics, the profitability of most property and casualty insurance companies tends to follow this cyclical market pattern, with profitability generally increasing in hard markets and decreasing in soft markets.  At present, we are experiencing rate indications that support a hardening market in the Florida property and casualty market.  Elsewhere in the United States, we are experiencing a  softening market because of increased competition.  We cannot predict how long these market conditions will persist.  Although we do not compete entirely on price or targeted market share, negative market conditions may impair our ability to write insurance at rates that we consider appropriate relative to the risk assumed.  If we cannot write insurance at appropriate rates, our revenues and operating performance may be adversely affected.. We are beginning the process of exiting from the automobile and commercial general liability lines of business.  As a result, we may experience increased costs as a result of these exit activities and will experience increased concentration of our business in homeowners insurance.. In the fourth quarter of 2017, we determined to exit from the automobile insurance business, and in the first quarter of 2018, we determined to exit from the commercial general liability business. We may experience increased costs in connection with our exit activities, which will include require regulatory filings and notices to policyholders. In addition, after our exit activities are complete, our business will be completely focused on homeowners insurance. Although we will attempt to diversify our risks through geographic and other market diversification, there can be no assurances that we will be able to do so.. If we determine to expand to additional states or to expand the types of insurance products we offer, we may incur additional costs and may not obtain the necessary regulatory approvals.. Although we are currently exiting our automobile and commercial general liability lines of insurance, we may determine to expand our product offerings in the future by underwriting additional insurance products and programs, and marketing them through our distribution network. Expansion of our product offerings will result in increases in expenses due to additional costs incurred in actuarial rate justifications, software and personnel. Offering additional insurance products may also require regulatory approval, further increasing our costs.  Before we can write insurance in a new state, or a sell a new insurance product in a state, we must obtain a license or other approvals from the applicable state insurance regulators. These state insurance regulators may request additional information, add conditions to the license that we find unacceptable, or deny our application.  This would delay or prevent us from operating in that state or offering that new product. There can be no assurance that we would be successful bringing new insurance products to our markets in a manner that is profitable.. -. 17. -. Table of Contents. New homeowners insurance operations outside of Florida may not be profitable.. We plan to continue the expansion of admitted homeowners property and casualty programs into other states as opportunities arise. Expanding our operations to additional states present risks similar to those we currently face with our existing operations, including risks associated with the inability to market an adequately priced policy, inadequate commission structures, and overpriced or unavailable catastrophic reinsurance for wind events. Additionally, we would become subject to the insurance regulators in each state and the laws and regulations designed to regulate the insurance products and operations of new and existing insurance companies under their respective authority. As a result, there can be no guarantees that state regulators will allow us to do business in those states or, if we are approved to operate in a state, that our operations will be profitable in that state.. Our success depends on our ability to accurately price the risks we underwrite.. The results of operations and the financial condition of our insurance company depend on our ability to underwrite and set premium rates accurately for a wide variety of risks. Rate adequacy is necessary to generate sufficient premiums to pay losses, LAE and underwriting expenses and to earn a profit. In order to price our products accurately, we must collect and properly analyze a substantial amount of data; develop, test and apply appropriate rating formulas;  closely monitor and timely recognize changes in trends;  and project both severity and frequency of losses with reasonable accuracy.  Our ability to undertake these efforts successfully and price. our products accurately is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, some of which are outside our control, including:. • the availability of sufficient reliable data and our ability to properly analyze available data;. • the uncertainties that inherently characterize estimates and assumptions;. • our selection and application of appropriate rating and pricing techniques;. • changes in legal standards, claim settlement practices, medical care expenses and restoration costs;. • regulatory restrictions, including, without limitation regulatory approval of rates sought;  and. • legislatively imposed consumer initiatives.. Consequently, we could underprice risks, which would negatively affect our profit margins, or we could overprice risks, which could reduce our sales volume and competitiveness.  In either event, the profitability of our insurance company could be materially and adversely affected.. Adverse ratings by insurance rating agencies may adversely impact our ability to write new policies, renew desirable policies or obtain adequate reinsurance, which could limit or halt our growth and harm our business.. Third-party rating agencies assess and rate the ability of insurers to pay their claims.  The insurance industry uses financial strength ratings to assess the financial strength and quality of insurers.  Ratings are based on criteria established by the rating agencies and reflect evaluations of each insurer's profitability, debt and cash levels, customer base, adequacy and soundness of reinsurance, quality and estimated market value of assets, adequacy of reserves, capital and RBC ratios, and management.  Ratings are also based upon factors of concern to agents, reinsurers and policyholders and are not directed toward the protection of investors, such as purchasers of our common stock.. Our ability to compete successfully in states outside of Florida to expand our business footprint may also be negatively affected by our lack of an A.M. Best company rating of our financial strength.  Although our insurance subsidiaries have a Demotech rating of \"A\" (Exceptional), which is generally accepted in Florida and certain other states, a rating by A.M. Best is more widely accepted outside of Florida and may cause customers and agents to prefer a policy written by an A.M. Best-rated company over a policy written by us.  In addition, some mortgage companies outside of Florida may require homeowners to obtain property insurance from an insurance company with a minimum A.M. Best rating.. The withdrawal or downgrade of our ratings could limit or prevent us from writing or renewing desirable insurance policies, from competing with insurers who have higher ratings, from obtaining adequate reinsurance, or from borrowing on a line of credit or cause us to default on financial covenants contained in certain of our debt financing agreements.  The withdrawal or downgrade of our ratings could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position because our insurance products might no longer be acceptable to the secondary marketplace and mortgage lenders.  Furthermore, a withdrawal or downgrade of our ratings could prevent independent agents from selling and servicing our insurance products or could increase the commissions we must pay to these agents.. -. 18. -. Table of Contents. We rely on independent and general agents to write our insurance policies, and if we are not able to attract and retain independent and general agents, our revenues would be negatively affected.. We currently market and distribute our products and services through contractual relationships with a network of independent agents and a select number of general agents. Our independent agents are our primary source for our property and liability insurance policies.   Many of our competitors also rely on independent agents.  As a result, we must compete with other insurers for independent agents' business.  Our competitors may offer a greater variety of insurance products, lower premiums for insurance coverage, or higher commissions to their agents.  If our products, pricing and commissions do not remain competitive, we may find it more difficult to attract business from independent agents to sell our products.  A material reduction in the amount of our products that independent agents sell or a material reduction in the number of independent agents with whom we maintain a relationship could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We are a party to an insurance agency master agreement with ISA, an affiliate of Allstate, pursuant to which we are authorized by ISA to appoint Allstate agents to offer our homeowners and commercial general liability insurance products to consumers in Florida.  Since that time, our homeowners premiums and the percentage of homeowners premiums attributable to Allstate agents has increased rapidly.  During 2017, 23.8% of the homeowners premiums we underwrote were from Allstate's network of Florida agents, and this concentration may continue to increase. An interruption or change in our relationship with ISA could have a material adverse effect on the amount of premiums we are able to write, as well as our results of operations.. We are a party to a managing general underwriting agreement with SageSure to facilitate growth in our FNIC homeowners business outside of Florida.  As a percentage of our total homeowners premiums, 10.2%, 6.9% and 5.0%, for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively, were underwritten by SageSure.  The profitability of the business we obtain outside of Florida through this agreement will depend substantially on the quality of underwriting performed by SageSure.  An interruption in SageSure's services for us, or issues with the quality of SageSure's underwriting, could have a material adverse effect on the profitability of the business obtained through this relationship.. Certain of our agreements with agents provide that the renewal rights for policies written under those agreements belong to the agents, making it more difficult for us to maintain the policies written and the premium income generated through these relationships.. Our agreements with ISA and SageSure provide that ISA and SageSure, respectively, own the expirations of the policies underwritten under these agreements. This means that we do not have the right to solicit renewals of these policies. As a result, we may be less able to maintain the policies and the corresponding premium income from renewals of policies written by us under these agreements.. Cybersecurity breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to loss of data or liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer.. In the ordinary course of our business, we store sensitive data, including our proprietary business information and personally identifiable information of our insureds and employees, on our networks.  The secure processing and maintenance of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy.  Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions.  Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, or stolen.  Any such access, disclosure or loss of information could result in legal claims against us, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, regulatory penalties, disruption to our operations, and damage our reputation, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations.  Although we have implemented security measures to protect our systems from viruses and other intrusions by third parties, there can be no assurances that these measures will be effective.  To mitigate these costs, we carry a cyber-liability insurance policy.  Our insurance may not be sufficient to protect against all financial and other loss. Additionally, this policy will not cover us for security breaches, data loss, or cyber-attacks experienced by our third-party business partners who have access to our customer, agent, or employee data.. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by a security breach or other attack involving the systems of one or more of our business partners or vendors.. We conduct significant business functions and computer operations using the systems of third-party business partners and vendors, who provide software, hosting, communication, and other computer services to us. Our networks could be compromised by the errors or actions of our vendors and other business partners with legitimate access to our systems. If one of our vendors or other business partners are the subject of a security breach or cyber-attack, such breach or attack may result in improper or unauthorized access to our systems, and the loss, theft or unauthorized publication of our information or the confidential information of our customers,. -. 19. -. Table of Contents. agents or employees, notwithstanding our substantial efforts to protect our systems and sensitive or confidential information. While we expend significant resources on these defensive measures, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in preventing attacks or detecting and stopping them once they have begun.. We rely on our information technology and telecommunications systems, and the failure of these systems could disrupt our operations.. Our business is highly dependent upon the successful and uninterrupted functioning of our current information technology and telecommunications systems.  We rely on these systems to process new and renewal business, provide  customer service, make claims payments and facilitate collections and cancellations, as well as to perform actuarial and other analytical functions necessary for pricing and product development.  As a result, the failure of these systems could interrupt our operations and adversely affect our financial results.. Nonstandard automobile insurance historically has a higher frequency of claims than standard automobile insurance, thereby increasing our potential for loss exposure beyond what we would be likely to experience if we offered only standard automobile insurance.. Nonstandard automobile insurance is provided to insureds who are unable to obtain preferred or standard insurance coverage because of their payment histories, driving records, age, vehicle types, or prior claims histories.  This type of automobile insurance historically has a higher frequency of claims than does preferred or standard automobile insurance policies, although the average dollar amount of the claim is usually smaller under nonstandard insurance policies.  As a result, we are exposed to the possibility of increased loss exposure and higher claims experience than would be the case if we offered only standard automobile insurance.. Increased competition, competitive pressures, industry developments and market conditions could affect the growth of our business and adversely impact our financial results.. We operate in highly competitive markets and face competition from national, regional and residual market insurance companies in the homeowners, commercial general liability, and automobile markets, many of whom are larger, have greater financial and other resources, have higher financial strength ratings and offer more diversified insurance coverage.  Our competitors include companies that market their products through agents, as well as companies that sell insurance directly to their customers.  Large national captive writers may have certain competitive advantages over independent agency writers, including increased name recognition, increased loyalty of their customer base and reduced policy acquisition costs.  We may be forced to reduce our premiums or increase our commissions significantly to compete, which could make us less profitable and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  If we do not meet the prices offered by our competitors, we may lose business in the short term, which could also result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our executive management team is critical to the strategic direction of our company.  If there were an unplanned loss of service by any of our officers our business could be harmed.. We depend, and will continue to depend, on the services of our executive management team, which includes Michael H. Braun, Chief Executive Officer and President, Ronald Jordan, Chief Financial Officer, Erick A. Fernandez, Chief Accounting Officer, and others.  Our success also will depend in part upon our ability to attract and retain qualified executive officers, experienced underwriting talent and other skilled employees who are knowledgeable about our business.  If we were to lose the services of one or more members of our executive management team, our business could be adversely affected.  Although we have employment agreements with certain of our executive officers, any unplanned loss of service could substantially harm our business.. The recently enacted U.S. tax reform legislation will have an impact on our results of operations and financial condition, which we are currently assessing.. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\") was enacted, which significantly amends the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.  Among other things, the Tax Act reduces the corporate tax rate from a statutory rate of 35% to 21%, imposes additional limitations on net operating losses and executive compensation, allows for the full expensing of certain capital expenditures, and enacts other changes impacting the insurance industry.  While we expect the overall impact of the Tax Act to be favorable due to the decrease in the statutory tax rate, we are currently assessing the impact of other changes therein on our results of operations.  In addition, it is possible that state insurance regulators, including the OIR, may determine to take regulatory action, such as disapproving requested rate increases, because of the perception that the Tax Act has benefited insurance companies.. -. 20. -. Table of Contents. Risks Related to an Investment in Our Shares. Our stock price in recent years has been volatile and is likely to continue to be volatile.  As a result, the market price of our common stock may drop below the price you pay, and you may not be able to resell your shares at a profit.. The market price of our common stock has experienced, and may continue to experience, significant volatility from time to time. Such volatility may be affected by various factors and events, such as:. • our operating results, including a shortfall in operating revenue or net income from that expected by securities analysts and investors;. • recognition of large unanticipated accounting charges, such as related to a loss reserve enhancement;. • changes in securities analysts' estimates of our financial performance or the financial performance of our competitors or companies in our industry generally;. • the announcement of a material event or anticipated event involving us or our industry or the markets in which we operate;. • the issuance of a significant number of shares;  and,. • the other risk factors described in this Annual Report, the accompanying notes and the documents incorporated by reference herein.. In recent years, the U.S. stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, which have sometimes affected the market price of the securities issued by a particular company in a manner unrelated to the operational performance of the company. This type of market effect could impact our common stock price as well.  The volatility of our common stock means that the price of our common stock may have declined substantially at such time as you may look to sell your shares of our common stock.  If our share price decreases, the value of your investment could decline.. We have authorized but unissued preferred stock, which could affect rights of holders of common stock.. Our articles of incorporation authorize the issuance of preferred stock with designations, rights and preferences determined from time to time by our board of directors.  Accordingly, our board of directors is empowered, without shareholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividends, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights that could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of common stock.  In addition, the preferred stock could be issued as a method of discouraging a takeover attempt.  Although we do not intend to issue any preferred stock at this time, we may do so in the future.. Provisions in our articles of incorporation and our bylaws and the Florida Business Corporation Act could make it more difficult to acquire us and may reduce the market price of our common stock.. Our articles of incorporation and our bylaws contain certain provisions that may make it more difficult and time-consuming for shareholders or third parties to influence our management, policies or affairs, and may discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change-in-control of our company and offering a premium over the current market price of our common stock.  These provisions include those which:. • prohibit cumulative voting in the election of our directors;. • establish a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms;. • establish advance notice and disclosure procedures for shareholders to bring matters, including nominations for election to our board, before a meeting of our shareholders;  and,. • eliminate the ability of shareholders to take action by written consent in lieu of a shareholder meeting.. As a result, we may be less likely to receive unsolicited offers to acquire us that some of our shareholders might consider beneficial.. The Florida Business Corporation Act, as amended, contains provisions, which our directors have elected not to opt out of, that are designed to enhance the ability of our board of directors to respond to and potentially defer attempts to acquire control of our company. These provisions may discourage altogether takeover attempts that have not been approved by our board of directors.  These provisions may also adversely affect the price that a potential purchaser would be willing to pay for our common stock and, therefore, deprive you of the opportunity to obtain a takeover premium for your shares.  These provisions could make the removal of our incumbent directors and management more difficult.  These provisions may enable a minority of our directors and the holders of a minority of our outstanding voting stock or the holders of an existing control block to prevent, delay, discourage or make more difficult a merger, tender offer or proxy contest, even though the transaction may be favorable to the interests of a majority of our non-affiliate shareholders.  These provisions could also potentially adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. -. 21. -. Table of Contents. As a holding company, we depend on the earnings of our subsidiaries and their ability to pay management fees and dividends to the holding company as the primary source of our income.. We are an insurance holding company whose primary assets are our subsidiaries.  Our operations, and our ability to pay dividends or service our debt, are limited by the earnings of our subsidiaries and their payment of their earnings to us in the form of management fees, commissions, dividends, loans, advances or the reimbursement of expenses.  These payments can be made only when our subsidiaries have adequate earnings.  In addition, dividend payments made to us by our insurance subsidiaries are restricted by Florida law governing the insurance industry.  Generally, Florida law limits the dividends payable by insurance companies under complicated formulas based on the subsidiaries' available capital and earnings.. Payment of dividends in the future will depend upon our earnings and financial position and such other factors, as our board of directors deems relevant.. Future sales of our common stock by our existing shareholders in the public market, or the possibility or perception of such future sales, or sales of additional shares of common stock by us, could depress our stock price.. Investors currently known to be the beneficial owners of more than 5.0% of our common stock hold approximately 45% of our outstanding shares. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market or otherwise by our existing shareholders,  or the possibility or perception that such sales could occur, could depress the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities.. In addition, we may issue additional shares of our common stock from time to time in the future in amounts that may be significant. The sale of substantial amounts of our common stock by us, or the perception that these sales may occur, could adversely impact our stock price.. -. 22. -. Table of Contents"
