[1] "Item 1A.Risk Factors. An investment in our common shares involves a significant risk of loss. You should carefully read this entire report and should give particular attention to the following risk factors. You should recognize that other significant risks may arise in the future, which we cannot reasonably foresee at this time. Also, the risks that we now foresee might affect us to a greater or different degree than currently expected. There are a number of important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by any of our forward-looking statements in this Annual Report. These factors include, without limitation, the risk factors listed below and other factors presented throughout this Annual Report and any other documents filed by us with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, and the Canadian securities regulators on SEDAR which can be accessed at www.sedar.com.. Risks Related to Our Business. We have a history of significant losses and have had no revenues to date through the sale of our products. If we do not generate significant revenues, we will not achieve profitability.. To date, we have been engaged primarily in research and development activities. We have had no revenues through the sale of our products, and we do not expect to have significant revenues until we are able to either sell our product candidate after obtaining applicable regulatory approvals or we establish collaborations that provide us with up-front payments, licensing fees, milestone payments, royalties or other revenue. We have incurred significant operating losses every year since our inception on September 3, 1996. We reported a loss of approximately $7.0 million (including a non-cash loss on derivative liabilities of $0.13 million) for the year ended December 31, 2017, and reported a net loss of approximately $2.8 million (which included a non-cash gain on derivative liabilities of $0.05 million) for the year ended December 31, 2016. At December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $121.4 million. We anticipate incurring substantial additional losses due to the need to spend substantial amounts on activities required for regulatory approval of PEDMARKTM, commercial launch preparation of PEDMARKTM , anticipated research and development activities, and general and administrative expenses, among other factors. We have not commercially introduced any products. Our ability to attain profitability will depend upon our ability to fund and develop products that are safe, effective and commercially viable, to obtain regulatory approval for the manufacture and sale of our product candidate and to license or otherwise market our product candidate successfully. Any revenues generated from such product, assuming it is successfully developed, marketed and sold, may not be realized for a number of years. We may never achieve or sustain profitability on an ongoing basis.. PEDMARKTM is currently our only product candidate and there is no assurance that we will successfully develop PEDMARKTM into a commercially viable product.. Since our formation in September 1996, we have engaged in research and development programs. We have generated no revenue from product sales, do not have any products currently available for sale, and none are expected to be commercially available for sale until we have completed regulatory approval of PEDMARKTM. PEDMARKTM is currently our only product candidate. There can be no assurance that the research we fund and manage will lead PEDMARKTM or any future product candidate to become a commercially viable product. We have completed enrollment of two Phase III studies for PEDMARKTM. We anticipate substantial regulatory review prior to the commercialization of PEDMARKTM.. 8. We anticipate the need for additional capital in the future and if we cannot raise additional capital, we will not be able to fulfill our business plan.. We need to obtain additional funding in the future in order to finance our business strategy, operations and growth. We may not be able to obtain additional financing in sufficient amounts or on acceptable terms when needed. If we fail to arrange for sufficient capital on a timely basis, we may be required to curtail our business activities until we can obtain adequate financing. Debt financing must be repaid regardless of whether or not we generate profits or cash flows from our business activities. Equity financing may result in dilution to existing shareholders and may involve securities that have rights, preferences, or privileges that are senior to our common shares or other securities. If we cannot raise sufficient capital when necessary, we will likely have to curtail operations and you may lose part or all of your investment.. If we do not maintain current or enter into new collaborations with other companies, we might not successfully develop our product candidate or generate sufficient revenues to expand our business.. We currently rely on scientific and research and development collaboration arrangements with academic institutions and other third party collaborators, including an exclusive worldwide license from OHSU for PEDMARKTM. We also rely on collaborators for testing PEDMARKTM, including SIOPEL and the Children’s Oncology Group.. The agreements with OHSU are terminable by either party in the event of an uncured breach by the other party. We may also terminate our agreement with OHSU at any time upon prior written notice of specified durations to the licensor. Termination of any of our collaborative arrangements could materially adversely affect our business. For example, if we are unable to make the necessary payments under these agreements, the licensor might terminate the agreement which might have a material adverse impact. In addition, our collaborators might not perform as agreed in the future.. Since we conduct a significant portion of our research and development through collaborations, our success may depend significantly on the performance of such collaborators, as well as any future collaborators. Collaborators might not commit sufficient resources to the research and development or commercialization of our product candidate. Economic or technological advantages of products being developed by others, among other factors, could lead our collaborators to pursue other product candidates or technologies in preference to those being developed in collaboration with us. The commercial potential of, development stage of and projected resources required to develop our drug candidate will affect our ability to maintain current collaborations or establish new collaborators. There is a risk of dispute with respect to ownership of technology developed under any collaboration. Our management of any collaboration will require significant time and effort as well as an effective allocation of resources. We may not be able to simultaneously manage a large number of collaborations.. Our product candidate is still in development. Due to the long, expensive and unpredictable drug development process, we might not ever successfully develop and commercialize our product candidate.. In order to achieve profitable operations, we, alone or in collaboration with others, must successfully fund, develop, manufacture, introduce and market our product candidate. The time necessary to achieve market success for any individual product is long and uncertain. Our product candidate and research programs are in clinical development and require significant, time-consuming and costly research, testing and regulatory clearances. In developing our product candidate, we are subject to risks of failure that are inherent in the development of therapeutic products based on innovative technologies. The results of preclinical and initial clinical trials are not necessarily predictive of future results. Our product candidate might not be economical to manufacture or market or might not achieve market acceptance. In addition, third parties might hold proprietary rights that preclude us from marketing our product candidates or others might market equivalent or superior products.. We may need to conduct additional human clinical trials to assess our product candidate. If these trials are delayed or are unsuccessful, our development costs will significantly increase and our business prospects may suffer.. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of our product candidate, we must demonstrate, through preclinical studies with animals and clinical trials with humans, that our product candidate is safe and effective for use in each target indication. To date, we have performed only limited clinical trials. Much of our testing has been conducted on animals or on human cells in the laboratory, and the benefits of treatment seen in animals or on human cells in a laboratory setting may not ultimately be obtained in human clinical trials. As a result, we may need to perform significant additional research and development activities and conduct extensive preclinical and clinical testing prior to any application for commercial use. We may suffer significant setbacks in additional clinical trials, and the trials may demonstrate our product candidate to be unsafe or ineffective. We may also encounter problems in our clinical trials that will cause us to delay, suspend or terminate those clinical trials, which would increase our development costs and harm our financial results and commercial prospects. Identifying and qualifying patients to participate in clinical trials of our potential products is critically important to our success. The timing of our clinical trials depends on, among other things, the speed at which we can recruit patients to participate in testing our product candidate. We have experienced delays in some of our clinical trials and we may experience significant delays in the future. If patients are unwilling to participate in our trials because of competing clinical trials for similar patient populations, perceived risk or any other reason, the timeline for recruiting patients, conducting trials and obtaining regulatory approval of potential products will be delayed. Other factors that may result in significant delays include obtaining regulatory or ethics review board approvals for proposed trials, reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective clinical trial sites, and obtaining sufficient quantities of drugs for use in the clinical trials. Such delays could result in the termination of the clinical trials altogether.. 9. Regulatory approval of our product candidate is time-consuming, expensive and uncertain, and could result in unexpectedly high expenses and delay our ability to sell our product.. Development, manufacture and marketing of our product is subject to extensive regulation by governmental authorities in the United States and other countries. This regulation could require us to incur significant unexpected expenses or delay or limit our ability to sell our product candidate. Our clinical studies might be delayed or halted, or additional studies might be required, for various reasons, including:. ·there is a lack of sufficient funding;. ·the drug is not effective;. ·patients experience severe side effects during treatment;. ·appropriate patients do not enroll in the studies at the rate expected;. ·drug supplies are not sufficient to treat the patients in the studies; or. ·we decide to modify the drug during testing.. If regulatory approval of our product is granted, it will be limited to those indications for which the product has been shown to be safe and effective, as demonstrated to the satisfaction of the FDA and foreign regulators through clinical studies. Furthermore, approval might entail ongoing requirements for post-marketing studies. Even if regulatory approval is obtained, labeling and promotional activities are subject to continual scrutiny by the FDA and state and foreign regulatory agencies and, in some circumstances, the Federal Trade Commission. FDA enforcement policy prohibits the marketing of approved products for unapproved, or off-label, uses. These regulations and the FDA’s interpretation of them might impair our ability to effectively market our product.. We and our third-party manufacturers are also required to comply with the applicable current FDA Good Manufacturing Practices regulations, which include requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance, as well as the corresponding maintenance of records and documentation. Further, manufacturing facilities must be approved by the FDA before they can be used to manufacture our product, and they are subject to additional FDA inspection. If we fail to comply with any of the FDA’s continuing regulations, we could be subject to reputational harm and sanctions, including:. ·delays, warning letters and fines;. ·product recalls or seizures and injunctions on sales;. ·refusal of the FDA to review pending applications;. ·total or partial suspension of production;. ·withdrawals of previously approved marketing applications; and. ·civil penalties and criminal prosecutions.. In addition, identification of side effects after a drug is on the market or the occurrence of manufacturing problems could cause subsequent withdrawal of approval, reformulation of the drug, additional testing or changes in labeling of the product.. We may be unable to effectively deploy the proceeds from our recent financings for the development of PEDMARKTM.. In December of 2017, the Company announced the completion of an underwritten public offering for gross proceeds of $21.2 million. In June of 2017, the Company announced the closing of a non-brokered private placement for gross proceeds of $7.6 million. Any inability on our part to manage effectively the deployment of this capital could limit our ability to successfully develop PEDMARKTM.. If our licenses to proprietary technology owned by others are terminated or expire, we may suffer increased development costs and delays, and we may not be able to successfully develop our product candidate.. The development of our drug candidate and the manufacture and sale of any products that we develop will involve the use of processes, products and information, some of the rights to which are owned by others. STS is licensed under agreements with OHSU. Although we have obtained licenses or rights with regard to the use of certain processes, products and information, the licenses or rights could be terminated or expire during critical periods and we may not be able to obtain, on favorable terms or at all, licenses or other rights that may be required. Some of these licenses provide for limited periods of exclusivity that may be extended only with the consent of the licensor, which may not be granted.. 10. If we are unable to adequately protect or maintain our patents and licenses related to our product candidate, or if we infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others, we may not be able to successfully develop and commercialize our product candidate.. The value of our technology will depend in part upon our ability, and those of our collaborators, to obtain patent protection or licenses to patents, maintain trade secret protection and operate without infringing on the rights of third parties. Although we have successfully pursued patent applications in the past, it is possible that:. ·some or all of our pending patent applications, or those we have licensed, may not be allowed;. ·proprietary products or processes that we develop in the future may not be patentable;. ·any issued patents that we own or license may not provide us with any competitive advantages or may be successfully challenged by third parties; or. ·the patents of others may have an adverse effect on our ability to do business.. It is not possible for us to be certain that we are the original and first creator of inventions encompassed by our pending patent applications or that we were the first to file patent applications for any such inventions. Further, any of our patents, once issued, may be declared by a court to be invalid or unenforceable.. STS is currently protected by methods of use patents that we exclusively licensed from OHSU that expire in Europe in 2021 and are currently pending in the United States. In addition, periods of marketing exclusivity for STS may also be possible in the United States under orphan drug status. We obtained Orphan Drug Designation in the United States for the use of STS in the prevention of platinum-induced ototoxicity in pediatric patients in 2004; if it is subsequently approved, will have seven and a half years of pediatric exclusivity in the United States from the approval date. Refer to the “Description of Business” section of this Annual Report for a further description of the United States Orphan Drug Designation.. We may be required to obtain licenses under patents or other proprietary rights of third parties but the extent to which we may wish or need to do so is unknown. Any such licenses may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. If such licenses are obtained, it is likely they would be royalty bearing, which would reduce any future income. If licenses cannot be obtained on an economical basis, we could suffer delays in market introduction of planned products or their introduction could be prevented, in some cases after the expenditure of substantial funds. If we do not obtain such licenses, we would have to design around patents of third parties, potentially causing increased costs and delays in product development and introduction or precluding us from developing, manufacturing or selling our planned products, or our ability to develop, manufacture or sell products requiring such licenses could be foreclosed.. Litigation may also be necessary to enforce or defend patents issued or licensed to us or our collaborators or to determine the scope and validity of a third party’s proprietary rights. We could incur substantial costs if litigation is required to defend ourselves in patent suits brought by third parties, if we participate in patent suits brought against or initiated by our collaborators, or if we initiate such suits. We might not prevail in any such action. An adverse outcome in litigation or an interference to determine priority or other proceeding in a court or patent office could subject us to significant liabilities, require disputed rights to be licensed from other parties or require us or our collaborators to cease using certain technology or products. Any of these events would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Much of our technological know-how that is not patentable may constitute trade secrets. Our confidentiality agreements might not provide for meaningful protection of our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use or disclosure of information. In addition, others may independently develop or obtain similar technology and may be able to market competing products and obtain regulatory approval through a showing of equivalency to our product that has obtained regulatory approvals, without being required to undertake the same lengthy and expensive clinical studies that we would have already completed.. The vulnerability to off-label use or sale of our product candidate that are covered only by “method of use” patents may cause downward pricing pressure on the product candidate if they are ever commercialized and may make it more difficult for us to enter into collaboration or partnering arrangements for the development of this product candidate.. STS is currently only covered by “method of use” patents, which covers the use of certain compounds to treat specific conditions, and are not covered by “composition of matter” patents, which would cover the chemical composition of the compound. Method of use patents provide less protection than composition of matter patents because of the possibility of off-label competition if other companies develop or market the compound for other uses. If another company markets a drug that we expect to market under the protection of a method of use patent, physicians may prescribe the other company’s drug for use in the indication for which we obtain approval and have a patent, even if the other company’s drug is not approved for such an indication. Off-label use and sales could limit our sales and exert pricing pressure on any product we develop covered only by method of use patents. Also, it may be more difficult to find a collaborator to license or support the development of our product candidate that is only covered by method of use patents.. 11. If our third-party manufacturers breach or terminate their agreements with us, or if we are unable to secure arrangements with third party manufacturers on acceptable terms as needed in the future, we may suffer significant delays and additional costs.. We have no experience manufacturing products and do not currently have the resources to manufacture any products that we may develop. We currently have agreements with contract manufacturers for clinical supplies of PEDMARKTM, including drug substance providers and drug product suppliers, but they might not perform as agreed in the future or may terminate our agreements with them before the end of the required term. Significant additional time and expense would be required to effect a transition to a new contract manufacturer.. We plan to continue to rely on contract manufacturers for the foreseeable future to produce quantities of products and substances necessary for research and development, preclinical trials, human clinical trials and product commercialization, and to perform their obligations in a timely manner and in accordance with applicable government regulations. If we develop any product with commercial potential, we will need to develop the facilities to independently manufacture such product or products or secure arrangements with third parties to manufacture them. We may not be able to independently develop manufacturing capabilities or obtain favorable terms for the manufacture of our product. While we intend to contract for the commercial manufacture of our product candidate, we may not be able to identify and qualify contractors or obtain favorable contracting terms. We or our contract manufacturers may also fail to meet required manufacturing standards, which could result in delays or failures in product delivery, increased costs, injury or death to patients, product recalls or withdrawals and other problems that could significantly hurt our business. We intend to maintain a second source for back-up commercial manufacturing, wherever feasible. However, if a replacement to our future internal or contract manufacturers were required, the ability to establish second-sourcing or find a replacement manufacturer may be difficult due to the lead times generally required to manufacture drugs and the need for FDA compliance inspections and approvals of any replacement manufacturer, all of which factors could result in production delays and additional commercialization costs. Such lead times would vary based on the situation, but might be twelve months or longer.. We may lack the resources necessary to effectively market our product candidate, and we may need to rely on third parties over whom we have little or no control and who may not perform as expected.. We may not have the necessary resources to market our product candidate. If we develop any products with commercial potential, we will either have to develop a marketing capability, including a sales force, which is difficult and expensive to implement successfully, or attempt to enter into a collaboration, merger, joint venture, license or other arrangement with third parties to provide a substantial portion of the financial and other resources needed to market such products. We may not be able to do so on acceptable terms, if at all. If we rely extensively on third parties to market our products, the commercial success of such products may be largely outside of our control.. We conduct our business internationally and are subject to laws and regulations of several countries which may affect our ability to access regulatory agencies and may affect the enforceability and value of our licenses.. We have conducted clinical trials in the United States, Canada, Europe and the Pacific Rim and intend to, or may, conduct future clinical trials in these and other jurisdictions. There can be no assurance that any sovereign government will not establish laws or regulations that will be deleterious to our interests. There is no assurance that we, as a British Columbia corporation, will continue to have access to the regulatory agencies in any jurisdiction where we might want to conduct clinical trials or obtain regulatory approval, and we might not be able to enforce our license or patent rights in foreign jurisdictions. Foreign exchange controls may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition, since such controls may limit our ability to flow funds into or out of a particular country to meet obligations under licenses, clinical trial agreements or other collaborations.. Our cash invested in money market funds might be subject to loss.. Even though we believe we take a conservative approach to investing our funds, the nature of financial markets exposes us to investment risk, including the risks that the value and liquidity of our money market investments could deteriorate significantly and the issuers of the investments we hold could be subject to credit rating downgrades. While we have not experienced any loss or write down of our money market investments in the past, we cannot guarantee that such losses will not occur in future periods.. Risks Related to Our Industry. If we are unable to obtain applicable U.S. and/or foreign regulatory approvals, we will be unable to develop and commercialize our drug candidate.. The preclinical studies and clinical trials of our product candidate, as well as the manufacturing, labeling, sale and distribution, export or import, marketing, advertising and promotion of our product candidate, are subject to various regulatory frameworks in the United States, Canada and other countries. Any products that we develop must receive all relevant regulatory approvals and clearances before any marketing, sale or distribution. The regulatory process, which includes extensive preclinical studies and clinical testing to establish product safety and efficacy, can take many years and cost substantial amounts of money. As a result of the length of time, many challenges and costs are associated with the drug development process, and the historical rate of failures for drug candidates is extremely high. Changes in regulatory policy could also cause delays or affect regulatory approval. Any regulatory delays may increase our development costs and negatively impact our competitiveness and prospects. It is possible that we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval of our drug candidate or approvals may take longer and cost more to obtain than expected.. 12. Regulatory approvals, if granted, may entail limitations on the uses for which any product we develop may be marketed, limiting the potential sales for any such products. The granting of product approvals can be withdrawn at any time, and manufacturers of approved products are subject to regular reviews, including for compliance with FDA Good Manufacturing Practices regulations. Failure to comply with any applicable regulatory requirement, which may change from time to time, can result in warning letters, fines, sanctions, penalties, recalling or seizing products, suspension of production, or even criminal prosecution.. Future sales of our product candidate may suffer if they fail to achieve market acceptance.. Even if our product candidate is successfully developed and achieves appropriate regulatory approval, it may not enjoy commercial acceptance or success. Our product candidate may compete with a number of new and traditional drugs and therapies developed by major pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Market acceptance is dependent on the product candidate demonstrating clinical efficacy and safety, as well as demonstrating advantages over alternative treatment methods. In addition, market acceptance is influenced by government reimbursement policies and the ability of third parties to pay for such products. Physicians, patients, or the medical community may not accept or utilize any products we may develop.. We face a strong competitive environment. Other companies may develop or commercialize more effective or cheaper products, which may reduce or eliminate the demand for our product candidate.. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry, and in particular the field of cancer therapeutics where we are focused, is very competitive. Many companies and research organizations are engaged in the research, development and testing of new cancer therapies or means of increasing the effectiveness of existing therapies, including, among many others, Amgen, AstraZeneca, Bayer, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Eli Lilly, Eisai, Merck KGaA, Novartis, Johnson & Johnson, Pfizer, Roche, Taiho and Sanofi-Aventis. Many of these companies have marketed drugs or are developing targeted cancer therapeutics, which depending upon the mechanism of action of such agents could be competitors.. Many of our existing or potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and human resources than we do and may be better equipped to develop, manufacture and market products. In addition, many of these competitors have extensive experience with preclinical testing and human clinical trials and in obtaining regulatory approvals. Also, some of the smaller companies that compete with us have formed collaborative relationships with large, established companies to support the research, development, clinical trials and commercialization of any products that they may develop. Academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations may also conduct research, seek patent protection and establish collaborative arrangements for research, clinical development and marketing of products similar to those we seek to develop. These companies and institutions compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel as well as in acquiring technologies complementary to our projects.. We are likely to face competition in the areas of product efficacy and safety, ease of use and adaptability, as well as pricing, product acceptance, regulatory approvals and intellectual property. Competitors could develop more effective, safer and more affordable products than we do, and they may obtain patent protection or product commercialization before we do or even render our product candidate obsolete. The existence of competitive products, including products or treatments of which we are not aware, or products or treatments that may be developed in the future, may adversely affect the marketability of any product that we develop.. We may face product liability claims that could require us to defend costly lawsuits or incur substantial liabilities that could adversely impact our financial condition, receipt of regulatory approvals for our product candidate and our results of operation.. The use of our product candidate in clinical trials and for commercial applications, if any, may expose us to liability claims in the event that such product candidate causes injury or death or results in other adverse effects. These claims could be made by health care institutions, contract laboratories, and subjects participating in our clinical studies, patients or others using our product candidate. In addition to liability claims, certain serious adverse events could require interruption, delay and/or discontinuation of a clinical trial and potentially prevent further development of our product candidate. We carry clinical trial insurance but the coverage may not be sufficient to protect us from legal expenses and liabilities we might incur. Litigation is very expensive, even if we defend successfully against possible litigation. In addition, our existing coverage may not be adequate if we develop additional products, and future coverage may not be available in sufficient amounts or at reasonable cost. Further, it is possible that we may later reduce or terminate this coverage based on future availability of financial resources. Adverse liability claims may also harm our ability to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals.. 13. We used hazardous materials and chemicals in our research and development, and our failure to comply with laws related to hazardous materials could materially harm us.. Our research and development processes involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, such as flammable organic solvents, corrosive acids and corrosive bases. Accordingly, we are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of such materials and certain waste products. The risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. We could be held liable for any damages that result and any such liability could exceed our resources and may not be covered by our general liability insurance. We currently do not carry insurance specifically for hazardous materials claims. We may be required to incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations, which may change from time to time. Our current practice is to outsource these activities.. Efforts to reduce product pricing and health care reimbursement and changes to government policies could negatively affect the commercialization of our product candidate.. If our product candidate achieves regulatory approval, we may be materially adversely affected by the continuing efforts of governmental and third-party payers to contain or reduce health care costs. For example, if we succeed in bringing one or more products to market, such products may not be considered cost-effective and the availability of consumer reimbursement may not exist or be sufficient to allow the sale of such products on a competitive basis. The constraints on pricing and availability of competitive products may further limit our pricing and reimbursement policies as well as adversely impact market acceptance and commercialization for the products.. In many markets, the pricing or profitability of healthcare products is subject to government control. In recent years, federal, state, provincial and local officials and legislators have proposed or are proposing a variety of price-based reforms to the healthcare systems in the United States, Canada and elsewhere. Some proposals include measures that would limit or eliminate payments from third-party payors to the consumer for certain medical procedures and treatments or allow government control of pharmaceutical pricing. The adoption of any such proposals or reforms could adversely affect the commercial viability of our product candidates.. In the United States, there have been and continue to be a number of legislative initiatives to contain healthcare costs. For example, in 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, or the “ACA”, was passed, which substantially changes the way health care is financed by both governmental and private insurers, and significantly impacts the U.S. pharmaceutical industry. The expansion of insured among children under the ACA is not expected to be significant to the prospects for our product candidate since Medicaid was more available to children than the general population.. The provisions of the ACA of importance to the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry are, among others, the following:. ·an annual, nondeductible fee on any entity that manufactures or imports certain branded prescription drugs agents and biologic agents, which is apportioned among these entities according to their market share in certain government healthcare programs;. ·an increase in the rebates a manufacturer must pay under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program to 23.1% and 13% of the average manufacturer price for branded and generic drugs, respectively;. ·a new Medicare Part D coverage gap discount program, in which manufacturers must agree to offer 50% point-of-sale discounts to negotiated prices of applicable brand drugs to eligible beneficiaries during their coverage gap period, as a condition for the manufacturer’s outpatient drugs to be covered under Medicare Part D;. ·extension of manufacturers’ Medicaid rebate liability to covered drugs dispensed to individuals who are enrolled in Medicaid managed care organizations, unless the drug is subject to discounts under the 340B drug discount program;. ·a new methodology by which rebates owed by manufacturers under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program are calculated for drugs that are inhaled, infused, instilled, implanted or injected;. ·expansion of eligibility criteria for Medicaid programs by, among other things, allowing states to offer Medicaid coverage to additional individuals and by adding new mandatory eligibility categories for certain individuals with income at or below 133% of the federal poverty level, thereby potentially increasing manufacturers’ Medicaid rebate liability;. ·expansion of the entities eligible for discounts under the Public Health Service pharmaceutical pricing program;. ·new requirements under the federal Physician Payments Sunshine Act for drug manufacturers to report information related to payments and other transfers of value made to physicians and teaching hospitals as well as ownership or investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members;. ·a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee, identify priorities in, and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research, along with funding for such research;. ·creation of the Independent Payment Advisory Board, which, if and when impaneled, will have authority to recommend certain changes to the Medicare program that could result in reduced payments for prescription drugs; and. ·establishment of a Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation at CMS to test innovative payment and service delivery models to lower Medicare and Medicaid spending, potentially including prescription drug spending.. 14. Some states are also considering legislation that would control the prices of drugs, and state Medicaid programs are increasingly requesting manufacturers to pay supplemental rebates and requiring prior authorization by the state program for use of any drug for which supplemental rebates are not being paid. Managed care organizations continue to seek price discounts and, in some cases, to impose restrictions on the coverage of particular drugs. Government efforts to reduce Medicaid expenses may lead to increased use of managed care organizations by Medicaid programs. This may result in managed care organizations influencing prescription decisions for a larger segment of the population and a corresponding constraint on prices and reimbursement for our products.. Since its enactment, there have been judicial and Congressional challenges to numerous aspects of the ACA, and Congress and the executive branch are seeking to replace the ACA with new federal legislation. There may also be federal and state regulatory changes that impact the ACA or healthcare programs, insurance coverage or reimbursement generally. These efforts have increased uncertainty regarding the availability of healthcare programs, insurance coverage and reimbursement as a general matter as well as for our product candidate, and we cannot predict how these events will impact our business.. In addition, there has been heightened governmental scrutiny over the manner in which manufacturers set prices for their marketed products, which have resulted in several recent Congressional inquiries and proposed bills designed to, among other things, bring more transparency to product pricing, review the relationship between pricing and manufacturer patient programs, reduce the price of drugs under Medicare and reform government program reimbursement methodologies for products. We expect that additional state and federal healthcare reform measures will be adopted in the future, any of which could limit the amounts that federal and state governments will pay for healthcare products and services, which could result in reduced demand for our product candidates or additional pricing pressures.. Any significant changes in the healthcare system in the United States, Canada or abroad would likely have a substantial impact on the manner in which we conduct business and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise capital and the viability of product commercialization.. Risks Related to Owning Our Common Shares. We may be unable to maintain the listing of our common shares on the Nasdaq Capital Market or the TSX and that would make it more difficult for shareholders to dispose of our common shares.. Our common shares are currently listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market and the Toronto Stock Exchange (the “TSX”). Both the Nasdaq Capital Market and the TSX have rules for continued listing, including minimum market capitalization and other requirements, that we might not meet in the future.. Delisting from the Nasdaq Capital Market or the TSX would make it more difficult for shareholders to dispose of our common shares and more difficult to obtain accurate quotations on our common shares. This could have an adverse effect on the price of our common shares. There can be no assurances that a market maker will make a market in our common shares on the OTCQB or any other stock quotation system after delisting. Furthermore, securities quoted over-the-counter generally have significantly less liquidity than securities traded on a national securities exchange, not only in the number of shares that can be bought and sold, but also through delays in the timing of transactions and lower market prices than might otherwise be obtained. As a result, shareholders might find it difficult to resell shares at prices quoted in the market or at all. Furthermore, because of the limited market and generally low volume of trading in our common shares, our common shares are more likely to be affected by broad market fluctuations, general market conditions, fluctuations in our operating results, changes in the market’s perception of our business, and announcements made by us, our competitors or parties with whom we have business relationships. Our ability to issue additional securities for financing or other purposes, or to otherwise arrange for any financing we may need in the future, may also be materially and adversely affected by the limited market and low trading volume of our common shares.. The market price of our common shares is highly volatile and could cause the value of your investment to significantly decline.. Historically, the market price of our common shares has been highly volatile and the market for our common shares has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, some of which are unrelated to our operating performance. From March 15, 2013 to March 16, 2018, the closing trading price of our stock fluctuated from a high of $15.63 Canadian dollars (“CAD”) per share to a low of CAD$0.72 per share on the TSX. From September 13, 2017 to March 16, 2018, the closing trading price of our stock fluctuated from a high of $12.35 per share to a low of $8.26 on the Nasdaq Capital Market. Historically, our common shares have had a low trading volume, and may continue to have a low trading volume in the future. This low volume may contribute to the volatility of the market price of our common shares. It is likely that the market price of our common shares will continue to fluctuate significantly in the future.. The market price of our common shares may be significantly affected by many factors, including without limitation:. ·the development of our sole product candidate, STS;. ·the need to raise additional capital and the terms of any transaction we are able to enter into;. ·other external factors generally or stock market trends in the pharmaceutical or biotechnology industries specifically;. 15. ·announcements of licensing agreements, joint ventures, collaborations or other strategic alliances that involve our product or those of our competitors;. ·innovations related to our or our competitors’ products;. ·actual or potential clinical trial results related to our or our competitors’ products;. ·our financial results or those of our competitors;. ·reports of securities analysts regarding us or our competitors;. ·developments or disputes concerning our licensed or owned patents or those of our competitors;. ·developments with respect to the efficacy or safety of our product or those of our competitors; and. ·health care reforms and reimbursement policy changes nationally and internationally.. Our existing principal shareholders hold a substantial number of our common shares and may be able to exercise influence in matters requiring approval of our shareholders.. At March 16, 2018, our current shareholders separately representing more than 5% ownership in our Company collectively represented beneficial ownership of approximately 52.49% of our common shares. In particular, Southpoint Capital Advisors LP (“Southpoint Capital”) owns or exercises control over approximately 4.0 million common shares, representing approximately 21.7% of the issued and outstanding common shares. In addition, Essetifin SpA, owns approximately 3.2 million shares, or 17.5% of our common shares. In addition, Manchester Explorer, LP (“Manchester Explorer”), together with its associates, owns approximately 2.5 million shares, or 13.4% of our common shares. Southpoint Capital, Manchester Explorer, our other shareholders representing more than 5% ownership, and other insiders, acting alone or together, might be able to influence the outcomes of matters that require the approval of our shareholders, including but not limited to certain equity transactions (such as a financing), an acquisition or merger with another company, a sale of substantially all of our assets, the election and removal of directors, or amendments to our incorporating documents. These shareholders might make decisions that are adverse to your interests. The concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our Company, which could adversely affect the market price of our common shares or deprive our other shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for our common shares as part of a sale of our company.. There are a large number of our common shares underlying outstanding warrants and options, and reserved for issuance under our stock option plan, that may be sold in the market, which could depress the market price of our shares and result in substantial dilution to the holders of our common shares.. The sale or issuance of a substantial amount of our common shares in the future could cause the market price of our common shares to decline. It may also impair our ability to obtain additional financing. At March 16, 2018, we had outstanding warrants to purchase approximately 1.3 million shares ($2.0 million) of our common shares at an average exercise price of $1.50 per common share. In addition, at March 16, 2018, there were approximately 2.3 million common shares issuable upon the exercise of outstanding stock options, of which options to purchase approximately $1.7 million were denominated in Canadian dollars and had a weighted average exercise price of CAD $2.38 per common share and options to purchase approximately $4.3 million were denominated in U.S. dollars and had a weighted average exercise price of $2.70 per common share. We may also issue further warrants as part of any future financings in addition to the additional 2.3 million options to acquire our common shares currently remaining and available for future awards under our stock option plan.. We may need to raise additional funds in the future to continue our operations. Any equity offering could result in significant dilution to the ownership interests of shareholders and may result in dilution of the value of such interests and any debt offering will increase financial risk.. In order to satisfy our anticipated capital requirements to develop our product, we may need to raise additional funds through either the sale of additional equity, the issue of securities convertible into equity, the issuance of debt, the establishment of collaborations that provide us with funding, the out-license or sale of certain aspects of our intellectual property portfolio, or from other sources. The most likely sources of financing that may be available to us in the near term are the sale of common shares and/or securities convertible or exercisable into common shares and the issuance of debt.. We cannot predict the size of future issues of common shares or the future issue of securities convertible or exercisable into common shares or the effect that any such future issues and sales of common shares or other securities will have on the market price of our common shares. Any transaction involving the issue of common shares, or securities convertible or exercisable into common shares, could result in immediate and substantial dilution to present and prospective holders of our common shares. Alternatively, we may rely on debt financing and assume debt obligations that require us to make substantial interest and capital payments and to pledge some or all of our assets as collateral to secure such debt obligations.. 16. We have not paid any dividends since incorporation and do not anticipate declaring any dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, you may not be able to recoup your investment through the payment of dividends on your common shares and the lack of a dividend payable on our common shares might depress the value of your investment.. For the foreseeable future, we plan to use all available funds to finance the development of our product candidate and operate our business. Our directors will determine if and when dividends should be declared and paid in the future based on our financial position at the relevant time, but since we have no present plans to pay dividends, you should not expect receipt of dividends either for your cash needs or to enhance the value of our common shares held by you.. We may be a passive foreign investment company, or “PFIC,” which could result in adverse United States federal income tax consequences to U.S. investors.. If we are a PFIC for any taxable year (or portion thereof) that is included in the holding period of a U.S. Holder (as such term is defined in the section of this Annual Report “Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations”) of our common shares, the U.S. Holder may be subject to adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences and may be subject to additional reporting requirements. We have not made the analysis necessary to determine whether or not we are currently a PFIC or whether we have ever been a PFIC, and there can be no assurances with respect to our status as a PFIC for our current taxable year or any subsequent taxable year. Moreover, if we are a PFIC for any taxable year, we intend to provide to a U.S. Holder such information as the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) may require, including a PFIC annual information statement, in order to enable the U.S. Holder to make and maintain a “qualified electing fund” election. We urge U.S. investors to consult their own tax advisors regarding the possible application of the PFIC rules. For a more detailed explanation of the tax consequences of PFIC classification to U.S. Holders, see the section of this Annual Report entitled “Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations—Tax Consequences if We Are a Passive Foreign Investment Company.” This paragraph is qualified in its entirety by the discussion below under the heading “Material United States Federal Income Tax Considerations.” Each U.S. shareholder should consult its own tax advisors regarding the PFIC rules and the U.S. federal income tax consequences of the acquisition, ownership, and disposition of our common shares."
