[1] "Item 1A.      Risk Factors. In addition to the normal risks of business, we are subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including those listed below and others described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of the risks described herein could result in a significant or material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.. General. We have recorded goodwill as a result of prior acquisitions, and an economic downturn could cause these balances to become impaired, requiring write-downs that would reduce our operating income.. Goodwill aggregated approximately $2,746 million, or 30.0% of our total assets, as of December 31, 2017. Current accounting rules require that goodwill be assessed for impairment at least annually or whenever changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable from estimated future cash flows. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstance indicating the carrying value of our intangible assets, including goodwill, may not be recoverable include, but are not limited to, significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, a significant decline in our stock price and market capitalization, and negative industry or economic trends. No goodwill impairment charge was recorded in the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, or 2015. However, if there is an economic downturn in the future, the carrying amount of our goodwill may no longer be recoverable, and we may be required to record an impairment charge, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. We will continue to monitor our market capitalization and the impact of the economy to determine if there is an impairment of goodwill in future periods.. 12. Table of Contents. Our management has articulated a willingness to seek growth through acquisitions, both in our current lines of business as well as in lines of business outside of our traditional areas of focus or geographic areas. This expansion of our business subjects us to associated risks, such as risks and uncertainties associated with new companies, the diversion of management's attention and lack of experience in operating unrelated businesses, and may affect our credit and ability to repay our debt.. Our management has stated that we may make acquisitions, both in our current lines of business, as well as lines of business that are not directly tied to or synergistic with our core operations. Accordingly, we have in the past acquired, and may in the future acquire, businesses in industries or geographic areas with which management is less familiar than we are with our core businesses. These activities involve risks that could adversely affect our operating results, due to uncertainties involved with new companies, diversion of management's attention and lack of substantial experience in operating such businesses. There can be no guarantee that we will not enter into transactions or make acquisitions that will cause us to incur additional debt, increase our exposure to market and other risks and cause our credit or financial strength ratings to decline.. We are a holding company and depend on distributions from our subsidiaries for cash.. We are a holding company whose primary assets are the securities of our operating subsidiaries. Our ability to pay interest on our outstanding debt and our other obligations and to pay dividends is dependent on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions or payments to us. If our operating subsidiaries are not able to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to meet our obligations or pay dividends on our common stock.. Our title insurance subsidiaries must comply with state laws which require them to maintain minimum amounts of working capital, surplus and reserves, and place restrictions on the amount of dividends that they can distribute to us. Compliance with these laws will limit the amounts our regulated subsidiaries can dividend to us. During 2018, our title insurers may pay dividends or make distributions to us of approximately $363 million; however, insurance regulators have the authority to prohibit the payment of ordinary dividends or other payments by our title insurers to us if they determine that such payment could be adverse to our policyholders.. The maximum dividend permitted by law is not necessarily indicative of an insurer's actual ability to pay dividends, which may be constrained by business and regulatory considerations, such as the impact of dividends on surplus, which could affect an insurer's ratings or competitive position, the amount of premiums that can be written and the ability to pay future dividends. Further, depending on business and regulatory conditions, we may in the future need to retain cash in our underwriters or even contribute cash to one or more of them in order to maintain their ratings or their statutory capital position. Such a requirement could be the result of investment losses, reserve charges, adverse operating conditions in the current economic environment or changes in interpretation of statutory accounting requirements by regulators.. The loss of key personnel could negatively affect our financial results and impair our operating abilities.. Our success substantially depends on our ability to attract and retain key members of our senior management team and officers. If we lose one or more of these key employees, our operating results and in turn the value of our common stock could be materially adversely affected. Although we have employment agreements with many of our officers, there can be no assurance that the entire term of the employment agreement will be served or that the employment agreement will be renewed upon expiration.. Failure of our information security systems or processes could result in a loss or disclosure of confidential information, damage to our reputation, monetary losses, additional costs and impairment of our ability to conduct business effectively.. Our operations are highly dependent upon the effective operation of our computer systems.  We use our computer systems to receive, process, store and transmit sensitive personal consumer data (such as names and addresses, social security numbers, driver's license numbers, credit cards and bank account information) and important business information of our customers.  We also electronically manage substantial cash, investment assets and escrow account balances on behalf of ourselves and our customers, as well as financial information about our businesses generally.  The integrity of our computer systems and the protection of the information that resides on such systems are important to our successful operation.  If we fail to maintain an adequate security infrastructure, adapt to emerging security threats or follow our internal business processes with respect to security, the information or assets we hold could be compromised. Further, even if we, or third parties to which we outsource certain information technology services, maintain a reasonable, industry-standard information security infrastructure to mitigate these risks, the inherent risk that unauthorized access to information or assets remains.  This risk is increased by transmittal of information over the internet and the increased threat and sophistication of cyber criminals.  While, to date, we believe that we have not experienced a material breach of our computer systems, the occurrence or scope of such events is not always apparent.  If additional information regarding an event previously considered immaterial is discovered, or a new event were to occur, it could potentially have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial condition.  In addition, some laws and certain of our contracts require notification of various parties, including regulators, consumers or customers, in the event that confidential or personal information has or may have been taken or accessed by unauthorized parties.  Such notifications can potentially result, among other things, in adverse publicity, diversion of management and other resources, the attention of regulatory authorities, the imposition of fines, and disruptions in business operations, the effects of which may be material. Any inability to prevent security or privacy breaches, or the perception. 13. Table of Contents. that such breaches may occur, could inhibit our ability to retain or attract new clients and/or result in financial losses, litigation, increased costs, negative publicity, or other adverse consequences to our business.. Further, our financial institution clients have obligations to safeguard their information technology systems and the confidentiality of customer information. In certain of our businesses, we are bound contractually and/or by regulation to comply with the same requirements.  If we fail to comply with these regulations and requirements, we could be exposed to suits for breach of contract, governmental proceedings or the imposition of fines.  In addition, future adoption of more restrictive privacy laws, rules or industry security requirements by federal or state regulatory bodies or by a specific industry in which we do business could have an adverse impact on us through increased costs or restrictions on business processes.. If economic and credit market conditions deteriorate, it could have a material adverse impact on our investment portfolio.. Our investment portfolio is exposed to economic and financial market risks, including changes in interest rates, credit markets and prices of marketable equity and fixed-income securities. Our investment policy is designed to maximize total return through investment income and capital appreciation consistent with moderate risk of principal, while providing adequate liquidity and complying with internal and regulatory guidelines. To achieve this objective, our marketable debt investments are primarily investment grade, liquid, fixed-income securities and money market instruments denominated in U.S. dollars. We make investments in certain equity securities and preferred stock in order to take advantage of perceived value and for strategic purposes. In the past, economic and credit market conditions have adversely affected the ability of some issuers of investment securities to repay their obligations and have affected the values of investment securities. If the carrying value of our investments exceeds the fair value, and the decline in fair value is deemed to be other-than-temporary, we will be required to write down the value of our investments, which could have a material negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition.. Failure of our enterprise-wide risk management processes could result in unexpected monetary losses, damage to our reputation, additional costs or impairment of our ability to conduct business effectively.. As a large insurance entity and a publicly traded company, the Company has always had risk management functions, policies and procedures throughout its operations and management. These functions include but are not limited to departments dedicated to enterprise risk management and information technology risk management, information security, business continuity, lender strategy and development, and vendor risk management. These policies and procedures have evolved over the years as we continually reassess our processes both internally and to comply with changes in the regulatory environment. Due to limitations inherent in any internal process, if the Company's risk management processes prove unsuccessful at identifying and responding to risks, we could incur unexpected monetary losses, damage to our reputation, additional costs or impairment of our ability to conduct business effectively.. We are the subject of various legal proceedings that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. We are involved from time to time in various legal proceedings, including in some cases class-action lawsuits and regulatory inquiries, investigations or other proceedings. If we are unsuccessful in our defense of litigation matters or regulatory proceedings, we may be forced to pay damages, fines or penalties and/or change our business practices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. See Note M Commitments and Contingencies to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report for further discussion of pending litigation and regulatory matters and our related accrual.. If adverse changes in the levels of real estate activity occur, our revenues may decline.. Title insurance revenue is closely related to the level of real estate activity which includes sales, mortgage financing and mortgage refinancing. The levels of real estate activity are primarily affected by the average price of real estate sales, the availability of funds to finance purchases and mortgage interest rates.. We have found that residential real estate activity generally decreases in the following situations:. • when mortgage interest rates are high or increasing;. • when the mortgage funding supply is limited; and. • when the United States economy is weak, including high unemployment levels.. Declines in the level of real estate activity or the average price of real estate sales are likely to adversely affect our title insurance revenues. The Mortgage Bankers Association's (\"MBA\") Mortgage Finance Forecast as of January 20, 2018 estimates an approximately $1.6 trillion mortgage origination market for 2018, which would be a decrease of 5.9% from 2017. The MBA forecasts that the 5.9% decrease will result from a decrease in refinance activity, offset by a slight increase in forecast purchase transactions. Our revenues in future periods will continue to be subject to these and other factors which are beyond our control and, as a result, are likely to fluctuate.. If financial institutions at which we hold escrow funds fail, it could have a material adverse impact on our company.. We hold customers' assets in escrow at various financial institutions, pending completion of real estate transactions.  These assets are maintained in segregated bank accounts and have not been included in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets.. 14. Table of Contents. We have a contingent liability relating to proper disposition of these balances for our customers, which amounted to $15.4 billion at December 31, 2017. Failure of one or more of these financial institutions may lead us to become liable for the funds owed to third parties and there is no guarantee that we would recover the funds deposited, whether through Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation coverage or otherwise.. If we experience changes in the rate or severity of title insurance claims, it may be necessary for us to record additional charges to our claim loss reserve. This may result in lower net earnings and the potential for earnings volatility.. By their nature, claims are often complex, vary greatly in dollar amounts and are affected by economic and market conditions and the legal environment existing at the time of settlement of the claims. Estimating future title loss payments is difficult because of the complex nature of title claims, the long periods of time over which claims are paid, significantly varying dollar amounts of individual claims and other factors. From time to time, we experience large losses or an overall worsening of our loss payment experience in regard to the frequency or severity of claims that require us to record additional charges to our claims loss reserve. There are currently pending several large claims which we believe can be defended successfully without material loss payments. However, if unanticipated material payments are required to settle these claims, it could result in or contribute to additional charges to our claim loss reserves. These loss events are unpredictable and adversely affect our earnings.. At each quarter end, our recorded reserve for claim losses is initially the result of taking the prior recorded reserve for claim losses, adding the current provision to that balance and subtracting actual paid claims from that balance, resulting in an amount that management then compares to our actuary's central estimate provided in the actuarial calculation. Due to the uncertainty and judgment used by both management and our actuary, our ultimate liability may be greater or less than our current reserves and/or our actuary's calculation. If the recorded amount is within a reasonable range of the actuary's central estimate, but not at the central estimate, management assesses other factors in order to determine our best estimate. These factors, which are both qualitative and quantitative, can change from period to period and include items such as current trends in the real estate industry (which management can assess, but for which there is a time lag in the development of the data used by our actuary), any adjustments from the actuarial estimates needed for the effects of unusually large or small claims, improvements in our claims management processes, and other cost saving measures. Depending upon our assessment of these factors, we may or may not adjust the recorded reserve. If the recorded amount is not within a reasonable range of the actuary's central estimate, we would record a charge or credit and reassess the provision rate on a go forward basis.. Our subsidiaries must comply with extensive regulations. These regulations may increase our costs or impede or impose burdensome conditions on actions that we might seek to take to increase the revenues of those subsidiaries.. Our insurance businesses are subject to extensive regulation by state insurance authorities in each state in which they operate. These agencies have broad administrative and supervisory power relating to the following, among other matters:. • licensing requirements;. • trade and marketing practices;. • accounting and financing practices;. • disclosure requirements on key terms of mortgage loans;. • capital and surplus requirements;. • the amount of dividends and other payments made by insurance subsidiaries;. • investment practices;. • rate schedules;. • deposits of securities for the benefit of policyholders;. • establishing reserves; and. • regulation of reinsurance.. Most states also regulate insurance holding companies like us with respect to acquisitions, changes of control and the terms of transactions with our affiliates. State regulations may impede or impose burdensome conditions on our ability to increase or maintain rate levels or on other actions that we may want to take to enhance our operating results. In addition, we may incur significant costs in the course of complying with regulatory requirements. Further, various state legislatures have in the past considered offering a public alternative to the title industry in their states, as a means to increase state government revenues. Although we think this situation is unlikely, if one or more such takeovers were to occur they could adversely affect our business. We cannot be assured that future legislative or regulatory changes will not adversely affect our business operations. See \"Item 1. Business  -  Regulation\" for further discussion of the current regulatory environment.. Our ServiceLink subsidiary provides mortgage transaction services including title-related services and facilitation of production and management of mortgage loans. Certain of these businesses are subject to federal and state regulatory oversight. For example, ServiceLink's LoanCare business services and subservices mortgage loans secured primarily by residential real estate throughout the United States. LoanCare is subject to extensive federal, state and local regulatory oversight, including federal and state regulatory examinations, information gathering requests, inquiries, and investigations by governmental and regulatory agencies, including the CFPB. In connection with formal and informal inquiries by those agencies, LoanCare receives numerous. 15. Table of Contents. requests, subpoenas, and orders for documents, testimony and information in connection with various aspects of its or its clients' regulated activities. The ongoing implementation of the Dodd Frank Act, including the implementation of the originations and servicing rules by the CFPB, could increase our regulatory compliance burden and associated costs and place restrictions on our ability to operate the LoanCare business.. LoanCare is also required to maintain a variety of licenses, both federal and state. License requirements are in a frequent state of renewal and reexamination as regulations change or are reinterpreted. In addition, federal and state statutes establish specific guidelines and procedures that debt collectors must follow when collecting consumer accounts. LoanCare's failure to comply with any of these laws, should the states take an opposing interpretation, could have an adverse effect on LoanCare in the event and to the extent that they apply to some or all of its servicing activities.. State regulation of the rates we charge for title insurance could adversely affect our results of operations.. Our title insurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive rate regulation by the applicable state agencies in the jurisdictions in which they operate. Title insurance rates are regulated differently in various states, with some states requiring the subsidiaries to file and receive approval of rates before such rates become effective and some states promulgating the rates that can be charged. In general, premium rates are determined on the basis of historical data for claim frequency and severity as well as related production costs and other expenses. In all states in which our title subsidiaries operate, our rates must not be excessive, inadequate or unfairly discriminatory. Premium rates are likely to prove insufficient when ultimate claims and expenses exceed historically projected levels. Premium rate inadequacy may not become evident quickly and may take time to correct, and could adversely affect the Company's business operating results and financial conditions.. Regulatory investigations of the insurance industry may lead to fines, settlements, new regulation or legal uncertainty, which could negatively affect our results of operations.. From time to time we receive inquiries and requests for information from state insurance departments, attorneys general and other regulatory agencies about various matters relating to our business. Sometimes these take the form of civil investigative demands or subpoenas. We cooperate with all such inquiries and we have responded to or are currently responding to inquiries from multiple governmental agencies.  Also, regulators and courts have been dealing with issues arising from foreclosures and related processes and documentation.  Various governmental entities are studying the title insurance product, market, pricing, and business practices, and potential regulatory and legislative changes, which may materially affect our business and operations. From time to time, we are assessed fines for violations of regulations or other matters or enter into settlements with such authorities which may require us to pay fines or claims or take other actions.. Because we are dependent upon California and Texas for approximately 14.5% and 14.2% and of our title insurance premiums, respectively, our business may be adversely affected by regulatory conditions in California and/or Texas.. California and Texas are the two largest sources of revenue for our title segment and, in 2017, California-based premiums accounted for 29.5% of premiums earned by our direct operations and 0.7% of our agency premium revenues. Texas-based premiums accounted for 18.2% of premiums earned by our direct operations and 10.3% of our agency premium revenues. In the aggregate, California and Texas accounted for approximately 14.5% and 14.2%, respectively, of our total title insurance premiums for 2017. A significant part of our revenues and profitability are therefore subject to our operations in California and Texas and to the prevailing regulatory conditions in these states. Adverse regulatory developments in California and Texas, which could include reductions in the maximum rates permitted to be charged, inadequate rate increases or more fundamental changes in the design or implementation of the California and Texas title insurance regulatory framework, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. If the rating agencies downgrade our insurance companies, our results of operations and competitive position in the title insurance industry may suffer.. Ratings have always been an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. Our title insurance subsidiaries are rated by S&P, Moody's, and Demotech. Ratings reflect the opinion of a rating agency with regard to an insurance company's or insurance holding company's financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet its obligations to policyholders and are not evaluations directed to investors. Our ratings are subject to continued periodic review by rating agencies and the continued retention of those ratings cannot be assured. If our ratings are reduced from their current levels by those entities, our results of operations could be adversely affected.. If the Company's claim loss prevention procedures fail, we could incur significant claim losses.. In the ordinary course of our title insurance business, we assume risks related to insuring clear title to residential and commercial properties. The Company has established procedures to mitigate the risk of loss from title claims, including extensive underwriting and risk assessment procedures. We also mitigate the risk of large claim losses by reinsuring risks with other insurers under excess of loss and case-by-case (\"facultative\") reinsurance agreements. Reinsurance agreements generally provide that the reinsurer is liable for loss and loss adjustment expense payments exceeding the amount retained by the ceding company. However, the ceding company remains primarily liable to the insured whether or not the reinsurer is able to meet its contractual obligations. If inherent. 16. Table of Contents. limitations cause our claim loss risk mitigation procedures to fail, we could incur substantial losses having an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.. The Company's use of independent agents for a significant amount of our title insurance policies could adversely impact the frequency and severity of title claims.. In the Company's agency operations, an independent agent performs the search and examination function or the agent may purchase a search product from the Company. In either case, the agent is responsible for ensuring that the search and examination is completed. The agent thus retains the majority of the title premium collected, with the balance remitted to the title underwriter for bearing the risk of loss in the event that a claim is made under the title insurance policy. The Company's relationship with each agent is governed by an agency agreement defining how the agent issues a title insurance policy on the Company's behalf. The agency agreement also sets forth the agent's liability to the Company for policy losses attributable to the agent's errors.  For each agent with whom the Company enters into an agency agreement, financial and loss experience records are maintained. Periodic audits of our agents are also conducted and the number of agents with which the Company transacts business is strategically managed in an effort to reduce future expenses and manage risks. Despite efforts to monitor the independent agents with which we transact business, there is no guarantee that an agent will comply with their contractual obligations to the Company. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that, due to changes in the regulatory environment and litigation trends, the Company will not be held liable for errors and omissions by agents. Accordingly, our use of independent agents could adversely impact the frequency and severity of title claims.. Failure to respond to rapid changes in technology could adversely affect the Company. Rapidly evolving technologies and innovations in software and financial technology could drive changes in how real estate transactions are recorded and processed throughout the mortgage life cycle. There is no guarantee that we will be able to effectively adapt to and utilize changing technology.  Our competitors may be able to utilize technology more effectively than us which could result in the loss of market share."
