[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. OUR FUTURE PERFORMANCE IS SUBJECT TO A VARIETY OF RISKS, INCLUDING THOSE DESCRIBED BELOW. IF ANY OF THE FOLLOWING RISKS ACTUALLY OCCUR, OUR BUSINESS COULD BE HARMED AND THE TRADING PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK COULD DECLINE. YOU SHOULD ALSO REFER TO THE OTHER INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS REPORT, INCLUDING OUR CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE RELATED NOTES.. Our quarterly revenues and operating results fluctuate due to a variety of factors, which may result in volatility or a decline in the price of our stock.. Our quarterly operating results have varied significantly due to a number of factors, including:. • fluctuation in demand for our products;. • the timing of new product introductions or enhancements by us and our competitors;. • the level of market acceptance of new and enhanced versions of our products;. • the timing of acquisitions that we have undertaken;. • the timing or cancellation of large customer orders;. • the timing of capital expenditures associated with our new manufacturing facility in Sherman, Texas;. • changes in levels of our customers' forecasted demand;. • the length and variability of the sales cycle for our products;. • pricing policy changes by us and our competitors and suppliers;. • the availability of development funding;. • changes in the mix of products sold;. • inventory changes;. • increased competition in product lines, and competitive pricing pressures; and. • the evolving and unpredictable nature of the markets for products incorporating our optical components and subsystems.. We expect that our operating results will continue to fluctuate in the future as a result of these factors and a variety of other factors, including:. • fluctuations in manufacturing yields;. • the emergence of new industry standards;. • failure to anticipate changing customer product requirements;. • the loss or gain of important customers;. • product obsolescence; and. • the amount of research and development expenses associated with new product introductions.. Our operating results could also be harmed by:. • adverse changes in economic conditions in various geographic areas where we or our customers do business;. • acts of terrorism and international conflicts or domestic crises;. • other conditions affecting the timing of customer orders or our ability to fill orders of customers subject to export control or U.S. economic sanctions; or. • a downturn in the markets for our customers' products, particularly the data storage and networking and telecommunication components markets.. We may experience a delay in generating or recognizing revenues for a number of reasons. Open orders at the beginning of each quarter are typically lower than expected revenues for that quarter and are generally cancelable with minimal notice.  Accordingly, we depend on obtaining orders during each quarter for shipment in that quarter to achieve our revenue objectives. Failure to ship these products by the end of a quarter may adversely affect our operating results. Furthermore, our customer agreements typically provide that the customer may delay scheduled delivery dates and cancel orders within specified timeframes without significant penalty. Because we base our operating expenses on anticipated revenue trends and a high percentage of our expenses are fixed in the short term, any delay in generating or recognizing forecasted revenues or changes in levels of our customers' forecasted demand could significantly harm our business. It is likely that in some future quarters our operating results will again decrease from the previous quarter or fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors.. 8. Table of Contents. As a result of these factors, our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Accordingly, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. Any shortfall in revenues or net income from the previous quarter or from levels expected by the investment community could cause a decline in the trading price of our stock.. We may lose sales if our suppliers or independent contract manufacturers fail to meet our needs or go out of business.. We currently purchase a number of key components used in the manufacture of our products from single or limited sources, and we rely on several independent contract manufacturers to supply us with certain key components and subassemblies, including lasers, modulators, and printed circuit boards. We depend on these sources to meet our production needs. Moreover, we depend on the quality of the components and subassemblies that they supply to us, over which we have limited control. Several of our suppliers are or may become financially unstable as the result of current global market conditions. In addition, from time to time we have encountered shortages and delays in obtaining components, and we may encounter additional shortages and delays in the future. If we cannot supply products due to a lack of components, or are unable to redesign products with other components in a timely manner, our business will be significantly harmed. We generally have no long-term contracts with any of our component suppliers or contract manufacturers. As a result, a supplier or contract manufacturer can discontinue supplying components or subassemblies to us without penalty. If a supplier were to discontinue supplying a key component or cease operations, the resulting product manufacturing and delivery delays could be lengthy, and our business could be substantially harmed. We are also subject to potential delays in the development by our suppliers of key components which may affect our ability to introduce new products. Similarly, disruptions in the operations of our key suppliers or in the services provided by our contract manufacturers, including disruptions due to natural disasters, or the transition to other suppliers of these key components or services could lead to supply chain problems or delays in the delivery of our products. These problems or delays could damage our relationships with our customers and adversely affect our business.. We use rolling forecasts based on anticipated product orders to determine our component and subassembly requirements.  Lead times for materials and components that we order vary significantly and depend on factors such as specific supplier requirements, contract terms and current market demand for particular components. If we overestimate our component requirements, we may have excess inventory, which would increase our costs. If we underestimate our component requirements, we may have inadequate inventory, which could interrupt our manufacturing and delay delivery of our products to our customers. Any of these occurrences could significantly harm our business.. If we are unable to realize anticipated cost savings from the transfer of certain manufacturing operations to our overseas locations and increased use of internally-manufactured components our results of operations could be harmed.. As part of our ongoing initiatives to reduce the cost of revenues, we expect to realize significant cost savings through (i) the transfer of certain product manufacturing operations to lower cost off-shore locations and (ii) product engineering changes to enable the broader use of internally-manufactured components. The transfer of production to overseas locations may be more difficult and costly than we currently anticipate which could result in increased transfer costs and time delays. Further, following transfer, we may experience lower manufacturing yields than those historically achieved in our U.S. manufacturing locations. In addition, the engineering changes required for the use of internally-manufactured components may be more technically-challenging than we anticipate and customer acceptance of such changes could be delayed. Adverse changes in currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the applicable local currency and/or unanticipated increases in labor costs at our lower cost manufacturing locations could limit the anticipated benefits of the transfer of certain product manufacturing operations to such lower cost locations. If we fail to achieve the planned product manufacturing transfer and increase in internally-manufactured component use within our currently anticipated timeframe, or if our manufacturing yields decrease as a result, we may be unsuccessful in achieving cost savings or such savings will be less than anticipated, and our results of operations could be harmed.. Continued competition in our markets may lead to an accelerated reduction in our prices, revenues and market share.. The end markets for optical products have experienced significant industry consolidation during the past few years while the industry that supplies these customers has experienced less consolidation. As a result, the markets for optical subsystems and components are highly competitive. Our current competitors include a number of domestic and international companies, many of which have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing and distribution resources and brand name recognition than we have. Increased consolidation in our industry, should it occur, will reduce the number of our competitors, but would be likely to further strengthen surviving industry participants. We may not be able to compete successfully against either current or future competitors. Companies competing with us may introduce products that are competitively priced, have increased performance or functionality, or incorporate technological advances and may be able to react quicker to changing customer. 9. Table of Contents. requirements and expectations. There is also the risk that network systems vendors may re-enter the subsystem market and begin to manufacture the optical subsystems incorporated in their network systems. Increased competition could result in significant price erosion, reduced revenue, lower margins or loss of market share, any of which would significantly harm our business. Our principal competitors for data communication applications include Applied Optoelectronics, Foxconn, Innolight, Lumentum, Oclaro, and Sumitomo. Our principal competitors for telecommunication applications include Acacia Communications, Fujitsu Optical Components, Lumentum, Oclaro, and Sumitomo. Our competitors continue to introduce improved products and we will have to do the same to remain competitive.. Decreases in average selling prices of our products may reduce our gross margins.. The market for optical subsystems is characterized by declining average selling prices resulting from factors such as increased competition, overcapacity, the introduction of new products and increased unit volumes as manufacturers continue to deploy network and storage systems. We have in the past experienced, and in the future may experience, substantial period-to-period fluctuations in operating results due to declining average selling prices. We anticipate that average selling prices will decrease in the future in response to product introductions by competitors or us, or by other factors, including pricing pressures from significant customers. In particular, we typically conduct pricing negotiations for our existing products with some of our largest telecommunication OEM customers in the last several months of the calendar year. Decreases in our average selling prices resulting from these negotiations typically become effective at the beginning of the next calendar year and generally have an adverse impact on our gross margins in future quarters. This impact is typically most pronounced in our fourth fiscal quarter ending in April, when the impact of the new pricing is first felt over a full quarter. In order to sustain profitable operations, we must continue to develop and introduce on a timely basis new products that incorporate features that can be sold at higher average selling prices. Failure to do so could cause our revenues and gross margins to decline, which would result in additional operating losses and significantly harm our business.. We may be unable to reduce the cost of our products sufficiently to enable us to compete with others. Our cost reduction efforts may not allow us to keep pace with competitive pricing pressures and could adversely affect our margins. In order to remain competitive, we must continually reduce the cost of manufacturing our products through design and engineering changes. We may not be successful in redesigning our products or delivering our products to market in a timely manner. We cannot assure you that any redesign will result in sufficient cost reductions to allow us to reduce the price of our products to remain competitive or improve our gross margins.. Shifts in our product mix may result in declines in gross margins.. Gross margins on individual products fluctuate over the product's life cycle. Our overall gross margins have fluctuated from period to period as a result of shifts in product mix, the introduction of new products, decreases in average selling prices for older products and our ability to reduce product costs. These fluctuations are expected to continue in the future.. Failure to accurately forecast our revenues could result in additional charges for obsolete or excess inventories or non-cancelable purchase commitments.. We base many of our operating decisions, and enter into purchase commitments, on the basis of anticipated revenue trends which are highly unpredictable. Some of our purchase commitments are not cancelable, and in some cases we are required to recognize a charge representing the amount of material or capital equipment purchased or ordered which exceeds our actual requirements. In the past, we have periodically experienced significant growth followed by a significant decrease in customer demand such as occurred in fiscal 2001, when revenues increased by 181% followed by a decrease of 22% in fiscal 2002.  Based on projected revenue trends during these periods, we acquired inventories and entered into purchase commitments in order to meet anticipated increases in demand for our products, which did not materialize. As a result, we recorded significant charges for obsolete and excess inventories and non-cancelable purchase commitments which contributed to substantial operating losses in fiscal 2002. Should revenues in future periods again fall substantially below our expectations, or should we fail again to accurately forecast changes in demand mix, we could again be required to record substantial charges for obsolete or excess inventories or non-cancelable purchase commitments.. If we encounter sustained yield problems or other delays in the production or delivery of our internally-manufactured components or in the final assembly and test of our products, we may lose sales and damage our customer relationships.. Our manufacturing operations are highly vertically integrated. In order to reduce our manufacturing costs, we have acquired a number of companies, and business units of other companies that manufacture optical components incorporated in our optical subsystem products and have developed our own facilities for the final assembly and testing of our products. For example, we design and manufacture many critical components incorporated in transceivers used for data communication and. 10. Table of Contents. telecommunication applications, including all of the short wavelength VCSEL lasers, at our wafer fabrication facility in Allen, Texas and manufacture a portion of our internal requirements for longer wavelength lasers at our wafer fabrication facility in Fremont, California. We assemble and test most of our transceiver products at our facilities in Ipoh, Malaysia and Wuxi, China. As a result of this vertical integration, we have become increasingly dependent on our internal production capabilities. The manufacture of critical components, including the fabrication of wafers, and the assembly and testing of our products, involve highly complex processes. For example, minute levels of contaminants in the manufacturing environment, difficulties in the fabrication process or other factors can cause a substantial portion of the components on a wafer to be nonfunctional. These problems may be difficult to detect at an early stage of the manufacturing process and often are time-consuming and expensive to correct. From time to time, we have experienced problems achieving acceptable yields at our wafer fabrication facilities, resulting in delays in the availability of components. Moreover, an increase in the rejection rate of products during the quality control process before, during or after manufacture, results in lower yields and margins. In addition, changes in manufacturing processes required as a result of changes in product specifications, changing customer needs and the introduction of new product lines have historically significantly reduced our manufacturing yields, resulting in low or negative margins on those products. Poor manufacturing yields over a prolonged period of time could adversely affect our ability to deliver our subsystem products to our customers and could also affect our sale of components to customers in the merchant market. Our inability to supply components to meet our internal needs could harm our relationships with customers and have an adverse effect on our business.. The markets for our products are subject to rapid technological change, and to compete effectively we must continually introduce new products that achieve market acceptance.. The markets for our products are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions, substantial capital investment, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards with respect to the protocols used in data communication and telecommunication networks. Our future performance will depend on the successful development, introduction and market acceptance of new and enhanced products that address these changes as well as current and potential customer requirements. For example, the market for optical subsystems is currently characterized by a trend toward the adoption of \"pluggable\" modules and subsystems that do not require customized interconnections and by the development of more complex and integrated optical subsystems. We expect that new technologies will emerge as competition and the need for higher and more cost-effective bandwidth increases. The introduction of new and enhanced products may cause our customers to defer or cancel orders for existing products. In addition, a slowdown in demand for existing products ahead of a new product introduction could result in a write-down in the value of inventory on hand related to existing products and/or a charge for the impairment of long-lived assets related to such products. We have in the past experienced a slowdown in demand for existing products and delays in new product development and such slowdown in demand and delays may occur in the future. To the extent customers defer or cancel orders for existing products due to a slowdown in demand or in the expectation of a new product release or if there is any delay in development or introduction of our new products or enhancements of our products, our operating results would be adversely affected. We also may not be able to develop the underlying core technologies necessary to create new products and enhancements, or to license these technologies from third parties. Product development delays may result from numerous factors, including:. • changing product specifications and customer requirements;. • unanticipated engineering complexities;. • expense reduction measures we have implemented, and others we may implement, to conserve our cash and attempt to achieve and sustain profitability;. • difficulties in hiring and retaining necessary technical personnel;. • difficulties in reallocating engineering resources and overcoming resource limitations; and. • changing market or competitive product requirements.. The development of new, technologically advanced products is a complex and uncertain process, requiring high levels of innovation and highly skilled engineering and development personnel, as well as the accurate prediction of technological and market trends. The introduction of new products also requires significant investment to ramp up production capacity, for which benefit will not be realized if customer demand does not develop as expected. Ramping of production capacity also entails risks of delays which can limit our ability to realize the full benefit of the new product introduction. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify, develop, manufacture, market or support new or enhanced products successfully, if at all, or on a timely basis. Further, we cannot assure you that our new products will gain market acceptance or that we will be able to respond effectively to product announcements by competitors, technological changes or emerging industry standards. Many of these factors are beyond our control. Any failure to respond to technological change would significantly harm our business.. In addition, in order to achieve widespread market acceptance, we must differentiate ourselves from our competition through product offerings and brand name recognition. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in making this. 11. Table of Contents. differentiation or achieving widespread acceptance of our products. Failure of our existing or future products to maintain and achieve widespread levels of market acceptance will significantly impair our revenue growth.. Our entry into the market for components for consumer electronic products, specifically our VCSEL array products for 3D sensing, involves special risks.. We have recently entered into the market for components for consumer electronic products with our VCSEL array products for 3D sensing.  We have purchased a facility in Sherman, Texas to expand our production capacity for these products and expect to make significant investments in this expansion during calendar year 2018.  We have not previously participated in this market.  The market for components for consumer electronics products and our expansion involve additional risks, including:. • We expect our customer base for these products to be highly concentrated.  If we are not able to meet the needs of our customers in this area, including with respect to timing and volume of production, performance and quality, we could lose business with our customers. Loss of business with any one customer could have a materially negative impact on our revenue and gross margin.. • We are making significant investment in the expansion of our production capacity for our VCSEL arrays for 3D sensing, including the development of a high-volume production facility in Sherman, Texas.  If we are unable to complete our production expansion plan and have our new production lines qualified by our customers on a timely basis, we could harm our customer relationships and lose business, which could have a materially negative impact on our revenue and gross margin.. • We expect revenue from our components for consumer electronic products to have significant seasonal variance due to the timing of new customer product introductions and demand.. Our future success ultimately depends on the continued growth of the communications industry and, in particular, the continued expansion of global information networks, particularly those directly or indirectly dependent upon a fiber optics infrastructure.. We are relying on increasing demand for voice, video and other data delivered over high-bandwidth network systems as well as commitments by network systems vendors to invest in the expansion of the global information network. As network usage and bandwidth demand increase, so does the need for advanced optical networks to provide the required bandwidth. Without network and bandwidth growth, the need for optical subsystems and components, and hence our future growth as a manufacturer of these products, will be jeopardized, and our business would be significantly harmed.. We depend on large purchases from a few significant customers, and any loss, cancellation, reduction or delay in purchases by these customers could harm our business.. A small number of customers have consistently accounted for a significant portion of our revenues. Our success will depend on our continued ability to develop and manage relationships with our major customers. Although we are attempting to expand our customer base, we expect that significant customer concentration will continue for the foreseeable future. We may not be able to offset any decline in revenues from our existing major customers with revenues from new customers, and our quarterly results may be volatile because we are dependent on large orders from these customers that may be reduced, delayed, or cancelled.. The markets in which we have historically sold our optical subsystems and components products are dominated by a relatively small number of systems manufacturers, thereby limiting the number of our potential customers. Recent consolidation of portions of our customer base, including telecommunication systems manufacturers, and potential future consolidation, may have a material adverse impact on our business. Our dependence on large orders from a relatively small number of customers makes our relationship with each customer critically important to our business. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our major customers, attract additional customers, or that our customers will be successful in selling their products that incorporate our products. We have in the past experienced delays and reductions in orders from some of our major customers. In addition, our customers have in the past sought price concessions from us, and we expect that they will continue to do so in the future. Expense reduction measures that we have implemented over the past several years, and additional action we are taking to reduce costs, may adversely affect our ability to introduce new and improved products which may, in turn, adversely affect our relationships with some of our key customers. Further, some of our customers may in the future shift their purchases of products from us to our competitors or to joint ventures between these customers and our competitors, or may in certain circumstances produce competitive products themselves. The loss of one or more of our major customers, any reduction or delay in sales to these customers, our inability to successfully develop relationships with additional customers, or future price concessions that we may make could significantly harm our business.. 12. Table of Contents. Because we do not have long-term contracts with our customers, our customers may cease purchasing our products at any time if we fail to meet our customers' needs.. Typically, we do not have long-term contracts with our customers. As a result, our agreements with our customers do not provide any assurance of future sales. Accordingly:. • our customers can stop purchasing our products at any time without penalty;. • our customers are free to purchase products from our competitors; and. • our customers are not required to make minimum purchases.. Sales are typically made pursuant to inventory hub arrangements under which customers may draw down inventory to satisfy their demand as needed or pursuant to individual purchase orders, often with extremely short lead times. If we are unable to fulfill these orders in a timely manner, it is likely that we will lose sales and customers. If our major customers stop purchasing our products for any reason, our business, financial condition, and results of operations would be harmed.. Our customers often evaluate our products for long and variable periods, which causes the timing of our revenues and results of operations to be unpredictable.. The period of time between our initial contact with a customer and the receipt of an actual purchase order typically spans over a year. During this time, customers may perform, or require us to perform, extensive and lengthy evaluation and testing of our products before purchasing and using the products in their equipment. These products often take substantial time to develop because of their complexity and because customer specifications sometimes change during the development cycle. Our customers do not typically share information on the duration or magnitude of these qualification procedures. The length of these qualification processes also may vary substantially by product and customer, and, thus, cause our results of operations to be unpredictable. While our potential customers are qualifying our products and before they place an order with us, we may incur substantial research and development and sales and marketing expenses and expend significant management effort. Even after incurring such costs, we ultimately may not be able to sell any products to such potential customers. In addition, these qualification processes often make it difficult to obtain new customers, as customers are reluctant to expend the resources necessary to qualify a new supplier if they have one or more existing qualified sources. Once our products have been qualified, the agreements that we enter into with our customers typically contain no minimum purchase commitments. Failure of our customers to incorporate our products into their systems would significantly harm our business.. Our products may contain defects that may cause us to incur significant costs, divert our attention from product development efforts and result in a loss of customers.. Our products are complex and defects may be found from time to time. Networking products frequently contain undetected software or hardware defects when first introduced or as new versions are released. In addition, our products are often embedded in or deployed in conjunction with our customers' products, which incorporate a variety of components produced by third parties. As a result, when problems occur, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. These problems may cause us to incur significant damages or warranty and repair costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and cause significant customer relation problems or loss of customers, all of which would harm our business.. We may not be able to obtain additional capital in the future, and failure to do so may harm our business.. We believe that our existing balances of cash and cash equivalents, together with the cash expected to be generated from future operations, will be sufficient to meet our cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months. We may, however, require additional financing to fund our operations in the future, to finance future acquisitions that we may propose to undertake or to repay or otherwise retire our outstanding 2033 Notes, in the aggregate principal amount of $258.8 million, which are subject to redemption by the holders in December 2018, 2023 and 2028, or our 2036 Notes, in the aggregate principal amount of $575.0 million, which are subject to redemption by the holders in December 2021, 2026 and 2031. Due to the unpredictable nature of the capital markets, particularly in the technology sector, we cannot assure you that we will be able to raise additional capital if and when it is required, especially if we experience disappointing operating results. If adequate capital is not available to us as required, or is not available on favorable terms, we could be required to significantly reduce or restructure our business operations. If we do raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders could be significantly diluted, and these newly-issued securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing stockholders.. Our international business and operations expose us to additional risks.. 13. Table of Contents. Products shipped to customers located outside the United States account for a majority of our revenues. In addition, we have significant tangible assets located outside the United States. Our principal manufacturing facilities are located in Malaysia and China. We currently operate smaller facilities in Australia, Israel, Korea, Sweden and Germany, and we are further expanding one of our manufacturing facilities in China. We also rely on several contract manufacturers located in Asia for our supply of key subassemblies. Conducting business outside the United States subjects us to a number of additional risks and challenges, including:. • periodic changes in a specific country's or region's economic conditions, such as recession;. • compliance with a wide variety of domestic and foreign laws and regulations (including those of municipalities or provinces where we have operations) and unexpected changes in those laws and regulatory requirements, including uncertainties regarding taxes, social insurance contributions and other payroll taxes and fees to governmental entities, tariffs, quotas, export controls, export licenses and other trade barriers;. • unanticipated restrictions on our ability to sell to foreign customers where sales of products and the provision of services may require export licenses or are prohibited by government action (for example, in early 2018, the U.S. Department of Commerce prohibited the export and sale of a broad category of U.S. products, as well as the provision of services, to ZTE Corporation, one of our customers in China);. • certification requirements;. • environmental regulations;. • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates;. • inadequate protection of intellectual property rights in some countries;. • potential political, legal and economic instability, foreign conflicts, and the impact of regional and global infectious illnesses in the countries in which we and our customers, suppliers and contract manufacturers are located;. • preferences of certain customers for locally produced products;. • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations across different geographic areas and cultures, including assuring compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other U. S. and foreign anticorruption laws;. • seasonal reductions in business activities in certain countries or regions; and. • fluctuations in freight rates and transportation disruptions.. These factors, individually or in combination, could impair our ability to effectively operate one or more of our foreign facilities or deliver our products, result in unexpected and material expenses, or cause an unexpected decline in the demand for our products in certain countries or regions. Our failure to manage the risks and challenges associated with our international business and operations could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Rising threats of international tariffs, including tariffs applied to goods traded between the United States and China, could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Since the beginning of 2018, there has been increasing rhetoric, in some cases coupled with legislative or executive action, from several U.S. and foreign leaders regarding the possibility of instituting tariffs against foreign imports of certain materials.  More specifically, in March and April of 2018, the U.S. and China have applied tariffs to certain of each other's exports. The institution of trade tariffs both globally and between the U.S. and China specifically carries the risk of negatively impacting China's overall economic condition, which could have negative repercussions on the Company. Furthermore, imposition of tariffs could cause a decrease in the sales of our products to customers located in China or other customers selling to Chinese end users, which would directly impact our business.. The current U.S. President, members of his Administration, and other public officials, including members of the current U.S. Congress, have made public statements indicating possible significant changes in U.S. trade policy and have taken certain actions that may impact U.S. trade policy, including new or increased tariffs on certain goods imported into the United States. Since we rely primarily upon non-U.S. manufacturers to make our products, such changes, if adopted, could have a disproportionate impact and make our products more expensive and less competitive in domestic markets. Further, changes in U.S. trade policy could trigger retaliatory actions by affected countries, which could impose restrictions on our ability to do business in or with affected countries or prohibit, reduce or discourage purchases of our products by foreign customers, leading to increased costs of components contained in our products, increased costs of manufacturing our products, and higher prices for our products in foreign markets. For example, there are risks that the Chinese government may, among other things, require the use of local suppliers, compel companies that do business in China to partner with local companies to conduct business and provide incentives to government-backed local customers to buy from local suppliers rather than companies like ours. Changes in, and responses to, U.S. trade policy could reduce the competitiveness of our products and cause our sales and revenues to drop, which could materially and adversely impact our business and results of operations.. 14. Table of Contents. Our ability to hire and retain employees may be negatively impacted by changes in immigration laws, regulations and procedures.. Foreign nationals who are not U.S. citizens or permanent residents constitute an important part of our U.S. workforce, particularly in the areas of engineering and product development. Our ability to hire and retain these workers and their ability to remain and work in the United States are impacted by laws and regulations, as well as by procedures and enforcement practices of various government agencies. Changes in immigration laws, regulations or procedures, including those that may be enacted by the new U.S. presidential administration, may adversely affect our ability to hire or retain such workers, increase our operating expenses and negatively impact our ability to deliver our products and services.. Our future operating results may be subject to volatility, as a result of exposure to foreign exchange risks.. We are exposed to foreign exchange risks. Foreign currency fluctuations may affect both our revenues and our costs and expenses, which would significantly affect our operating results. More than 99% of our sales worldwide are denominated in U.S. dollars. If there is a significant devaluation of the currency in a specific country relative to the dollar, the prices of our products will increase relative to that country's currency, our products may be less competitive in that country and our revenues may be adversely affected.. Although we price our products in U.S. dollars, portions of both our cost of revenues and operating expenses are incurred in foreign currencies, principally the Malaysian ringgit, the Chinese yuan, the Australian dollar, the Israeli shekel, the Swedish krona, and the Euro. As a result, we bear the risk that the rate of inflation in one or more countries will exceed the rate of the devaluation of that country's currency in relation to the U.S. dollar, which would increase our costs as expressed in U.S. dollars. To date, we have not engaged in currency hedging transactions to decrease the risk of financial exposure from fluctuations in foreign exchange rates.. Our failure to protect our intellectual property may significantly harm our business.. Our success and ability to compete is dependent in part on our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality agreements to establish and protect our proprietary rights.  We license certain of our proprietary technology, including our digital diagnostics technology, to customers who include current and potential competitors, and we rely largely on provisions of our licensing agreements to protect our intellectual property rights in this technology. We have obtained a number of issued patents, acquired certain other patents as a result of our acquisitions, and we have filed applications for additional patents; however, we cannot assure you that any pending patent applications will result in issued patents, any issued patents will include claims that are sufficiently broad to cover our products and technologies or to provide sufficient protection from our competitors, or that our issued patents will be upheld. Additionally, significant technology used in our product lines is not the subject of any patent protection, and we may be unable to obtain patent protection on such technology in the future. Any infringement of our proprietary rights could result in significant litigation costs, and any failure to adequately protect our proprietary rights could result in our competitors offering similar products, which could result in loss of competitive advantages and decreased revenues to us.. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, existing patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws afford only limited protection. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Attempts may be made to copy or reverse engineer aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Accordingly, we may not be able to prevent misappropriation of our technology or deter others from developing similar technology. Furthermore, policing the unauthorized use of our products is difficult and expensive. We are currently engaged in pending litigation to enforce certain of our patents, and additional litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. In connection with the pending litigation, substantial management time has been, and will continue to be, expended. In addition, we have incurred, and we expect to continue to incur, substantial legal expenses in connection with these pending lawsuits. These costs and this diversion of resources could significantly harm our business.. Claims that we or any user of our products infringe third-party intellectual property rights could result in significant expenses or restrictions on our ability to sell our products.. Our industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent litigation based on allegations of patent infringement. We are currently involved as a defendant in patent infringement litigation and have been involved in the past as a defendant in such lawsuits. From time to time, we have also been accused of patent infringement that is not subject to current lawsuit, some of which accusations are unresolved. In the future, we may be subject to additional litigation alleging. 15. Table of Contents. infringement of patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies and in various jurisdictions that are important to our business. Any claims asserting that our products infringe or may infringe proprietary rights of third parties, if determined adversely to us, could significantly harm our business. Further, claims against a customer and/or end user of our products that the re-sale or use of our products, either alone or in combination with other products, infringes proprietary rights of third parties could cause customers or users to choose to not or be required to not utilize our products alone or in such combination, which could harm our sales of such products. Any claims, against us or any customer or user of our products, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, any of which could significantly harm our business. In addition, our agreements with our customers typically require us to indemnify our customers from any expense or liability resulting from claimed infringement of third party intellectual property rights. In the event a claim against us was successful and we could not obtain a license to the relevant technology on acceptable terms or license a substitute technology or redesign our products to avoid infringement, our business would be significantly harmed.. Numerous patents in our industry are held by others, including academic institutions, competitors and non-practicing entities. Optical subsystem suppliers may seek to gain a competitive advantage or other third parties may seek an economic return on their intellectual property portfolios by making infringement claims against us. In the future, we may need to obtain license rights to patents or other intellectual property held by others to the extent necessary for our business. Unless we are able to obtain those licenses on commercially reasonable terms, patents or other intellectual property held by others could inhibit our development of new products. Licenses granting us the right to use third party technology may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Generally, a license, if granted, would include payments of up-front fees, ongoing royalties or both. These payments or other terms could have a significant adverse impact on our operating results.. If we are unable to retain our key management and technical personnel and attract and retain additional key personnel as required, our business could be significantly harmed.. Our future success is substantially dependent upon the continued contributions of the members of our senior management team, many of whom have years of management, engineering, sales, marketing and manufacturing experience that would be difficult to replace. We also believe our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain additional highly skilled managerial, technical, sales and marketing, finance and manufacturing personnel. In particular, we will need to increase the number of our technical staff members with experience in high-speed networking applications as we further develop our product lines. Competition for these highly skilled employees in our industry is intense. In making employment decisions, particularly in the high-technology industries, job candidates often consider the value of the equity they are to receive in connection with their employment. Therefore, significant volatility in the price of our common stock may adversely affect our ability to attract or retain key management and technical personnel.  The loss of service of any our key management or technical employees, our inability to attract or retain qualified personnel in the future or delays in hiring key personnel, as required, could significantly harm our business. In addition, employees may leave our company and subsequently compete against us. Moreover, companies in our industry whose employees accept positions with competitors frequently claim that their competitors have engaged in unfair hiring practices. We have been subject to claims of this type and may be subject to such claims in the future as we seek to hire qualified personnel. Some of these claims may result in material litigation. We could incur substantial costs in defending ourselves against these claims, regardless of their merits.. Our business and future operating results are subject to a wide range of uncertainties arising out of the continuing threat of terrorist attacks and ongoing military actions in the Middle East.. Like other U.S. companies, our business and operating results are subject to uncertainties arising out of the continuing threat of terrorist attacks on United States' interests, including U.S. companies, in locations worldwide and ongoing military actions in the Middle East, including the economic consequences of the war in Afghanistan or additional terrorist activities and associated political instability, and the impact of heightened security concerns on domestic and international travel and commerce. In particular, due to these uncertainties we are subject to:. • increased risks related to the operations of our manufacturing facilities in Malaysia;. • greater risks of disruption in the operations of our China, Singapore and Israeli facilities and our Asian contract manufacturers, including contract manufacturers located in Thailand, and more frequent instances of shipping delays; and. • the risk that future tightening of immigration controls may adversely affect the residence status of non-U.S. engineers and other key technical employees in our U.S. facilities or our ability to hire new non-U.S. employees in such facilities.. 16. Table of Contents. Future acquisitions could be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and harm our operating results.. In addition to our combination with Optium in August 2008 and our acquisitions of Ignis in May 2011, Red-C in July 2012 and u2t Photonics AG (\"u2t\") in January 2014, we have completed the acquisition of 11 privately-held companies and certain businesses and assets from seven other companies since October 2000. We continue to review opportunities to acquire other businesses, product lines or technologies that would complement our current products, expand the breadth of our markets or enhance our technical capabilities, or that may otherwise offer growth opportunities, and we from time to time make proposals and offers, and take other steps, to acquire businesses, products and technologies.. The Optium merger and several of our other past acquisitions have been material, and acquisitions that we may complete in the future may be material. In 13 of our 22 acquisitions, we issued common stock or notes convertible into common stock as all or a portion of the consideration. The issuance of common stock or other equity securities by us in connection with any future acquisition would dilute our stockholders' percentage ownership.. Other risks associated with acquiring the operations of other companies include:. • problems assimilating the purchased operations, technologies or products;. • unanticipated costs associated with the acquisition;. • diversion of management's attention from our core business;. • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers;. • risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; and. • potential loss of key employees of purchased organizations.. Not all of our past acquisitions have been successful. In the past, we have subsequently sold some of the assets acquired in prior acquisitions, discontinued product lines and closed acquired facilities. As a result of these activities, we incurred significant restructuring charges and charges for the write-down of assets associated with those acquisitions. Through fiscal 2018, we have written off all of the goodwill associated with our past acquisitions with the exception of the more recently completed acquisitions of Ignis, Red-C and u2t. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in overcoming problems encountered in connection with our past acquisitions or potential future acquisitions, and our inability to do so could significantly harm our business. In addition, to the extent that the economic benefits associated with our past acquisitions or any of our future acquisitions diminish in the future, we may be required to record additional write downs of goodwill, intangible assets or other assets associated with such acquisitions, which would adversely affect our operating results.. We have made and may continue to make strategic investments which may not be successful, may result in the loss of all or part of our invested capital and may adversely affect our operating results.. Since inception, we have made minority equity investments in a number of early-stage technology companies, totaling approximately $61.9 million. Our investments in these early stage companies were primarily motivated by our desire to gain early access to new technology. We intend to review additional opportunities to make strategic equity investments in pre-public companies where we believe such investments will provide us with opportunities to gain access to important technologies or otherwise enhance important commercial relationships. We have little or no influence over the early-stage companies in which we have made or may make these strategic, minority equity investments. Each of these investments in pre-public companies involves a high degree of risk. We may not be successful in achieving the financial, technological or commercial advantage upon which any given investment is premised, and failure by the early-stage company to achieve its own business objectives or to raise capital needed on acceptable economic terms could result in a loss of all or part of our invested capital. Between fiscal 2003 and 2018, we wrote off an aggregate of $28.6 million in eight investments which became impaired and reclassified $4.2 million of another investment to goodwill as the investment was deemed to have no value. We may be required to write off all or a portion of the $604,000 of such equity investments remaining on our balance sheet as of April 29, 2018 in future periods.. Our ability to utilize certain net operating loss carryforwards and tax credit carryforwards may be limited under Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code.. As of April 29, 2018, the Company had federal, state and foreign net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $236.5 million, $13.8 million and $22.9 million, respectively, and federal and state tax credit carryforwards of approximately $38.8 million and 31.4 million, respectively. With the exception of California R&D credit, which can be carried forward indefinitely, the net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards will expire at various dates beginning in fiscal 2020 through 2037, if not utilized. $78.0 million of such net operating loss carryforwards and $3.0 million of such tax credit carryforwards will expire in the next five years. Utilization of the Company's U.S. net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards may be subject to a. 17. Table of Contents. substantial annual limitation due to the ownership change limitations set forth in Internal Revenue Code Section 382 and similar state provisions. Such an annual limitation could result in the expiration of the net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards before utilization.. On December 22, 2017, H.R.1, commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"TCJA\"), was signed into law. The TCJA is complex and includes amendments that significantly change the taxation of offshore earnings and the deductibility of interest. The TCJA had a material impact on the value of our deferred tax assets and could increase our future U.S. tax expense. The TCJA implements a territorial tax system, which includes a mandatory deemed repatriation of all undistributed foreign earnings that are subject to a U.S. income tax. The mandatory deemed repatriation of these undistributed earnings has been offset by federal and state net operating loss carryforwards, and state credit carryforwards. Additionally, TCJA introduces new international tax provisions that will be effective for our fiscal year 2019, including (i) a new provision designed to currently tax the global low-taxed income of our foreign subsidiaries, together with a deduction of up to 50 percent and a partial credit for foreign taxes incurred by the foreign subsidiaries; (ii) limitations on the deductibility of certain base eroding payments to foreign entities; and (iii) limitations on the use of foreign tax credits to reduce U.S. income tax liability. While each of these provisions may have an impact on our tax expense for fiscal year 2019 and future periods, we expect the minimum tax on certain base erosion payments to have the most significant impact. We are currently assessing the effect of the TCJA on our business and consolidated financial statements. Reference is made to \"Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements - Note 13. Income Taxes\" for further discussion of the TCJA.. Changes in the application of tax policies may harm our results of operations.. A number of factors may negatively impact the manner in which our existing NOLs are applied as well as our future effective tax rates including, but not limited to:. • the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed;. • changes in valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities;. • increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes;. • changes in available tax credits;. • changes in stock-based compensation;. • changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws, including by authorities in municipalities where we are subject to social insurance and other payroll taxes and fees, and changes in generally accepted accounting principles in the United States or other countries in which we operate; and. • potential changes in IRS's clarification on TCJA.. An adverse change that impacts our tax position could negatively impact our operating results. In addition, we are the recipient of tax incentives that provide that certain income earned by our subsidiary in Malaysia is subject to a tax holiday for a limited period of time under the laws of that country. This Malaysian tax holiday is subject to expiration in August 2021. Our ability to realize benefits from tax initiatives could be materially affected if, among other things, applicable requirements are not met, the incentives are substantially modified, or if we incur losses for which we cannot take a deduction. In addition, although we have successfully received tax holiday extensions in the past, there can be no assurance that future extensions will be granted. If we are not able to extend a tax holiday, our total tax paid on a consolidated basis would be materially increased.. We will lose sales if we are unable to obtain government authorization to export certain of our products, and we would be subject to legal and regulatory consequences if we do not comply with applicable export control laws and regulations.. Exports of certain of our products are subject to export controls imposed by the U.S. Government and administered by the United States Departments of State and Commerce. In certain instances, these regulations may require pre-shipment authorization from the administering department. For products subject to the Export Administration Regulations, or EAR, administered by the Department of Commerce's Bureau of Industry and Security, the requirement for a license is dependent on the type and end use of the product, the final destination, the identity of the end user and whether a license exception might apply. Virtually all exports of products subject to the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, or ITAR, administered by the Department of State's Directorate of Defense Trade Controls, require a license. Certain of our fiber optics products are subject to EAR and we historically have sold some products, including certain products developed with government funding, subject to ITAR. Products developed and manufactured in our foreign locations are subject to export controls of the applicable foreign nation.. Given the current global political climate, obtaining export licenses can be difficult and time-consuming. Failure to obtain export licenses for these shipments or having one or more of our customers be restricted from receiving exports from us could significantly reduce our revenue and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 18. Table of Contents. Compliance with regulations of the U.S. and other governments also subjects us to additional fees and costs. The absence of comparable restrictions on competitors in other countries may adversely affect our competitive position.. We have previously been the subject of inquiries from the Department of State and the Department of Justice regarding compliance with ITAR. Although these inquiries were closed with no action being taken, we expended significant time and resources to resolve them, and future inquiries of this type could also be costly to resolve.. Privacy concerns and compliance with domestic or foreign privacy laws and regulations may increase our expenses, result in legal or regulatory proceedings against us and may harm our business.. In the ordinary course of our business, we maintain sensitive personal data on our networks, including confidential information relating to our customers, employees and business partners. Global privacy legislation, enforcement, and policy activity are rapidly expanding and creating a complex compliance regulatory environment regarding the collection, use, storage and disclosure of such information. These laws and regulations are still evolving and are likely to be in flux and subject to uncertain interpretation for the foreseeable future.  In particular, the political, legal and economic climate in China, both nationally and regionally, is fluid and unpredictable. Further, personal privacy, cyber security, and data protection are becoming increasingly significant issues in China. To address these issues, the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress promulgated the Cyber Security Law of the People's Republic of China (the \"Cyber Security Law\"), which took effect on June 1, 2017. The Cyber Security Law sets forth various requirements relating to the collection, use, storage, disclosure and security of data, among other things. Various Chinese agencies are expected to issue additional regulations in the future to define these requirements more precisely. These requirements may increase our costs of compliance.. Additionally, the European Union recently adopted the General Data Protection Regulation (the \"GDPR\"), which comprehensively reforms the EU's data protection laws and is expected to take effect in May 2018. The GDPR imposes strict data protection requirements that may necessitate changes to our business practices to comply with the new requirements or to address the concerns of our customers or business partners relating to the GDPR. The GDPR also includes severe financial penalties for non-compliance. Complying with any new regulatory requirements could force us to incur substantial expenses or require us to change our business practices in a manner that could harm our business and any non-compliance may result in lawsuits, regulatory fines, or other actions or liability. Our business may also be harmed if these privacy-related laws or any newly adopted privacy-related laws are interpreted or implemented in a manner that is inconsistent from country to country and inconsistent with our current policies and practices, or those of our customers or business partners.  Costs to comply with rapidly changing global privacy-related laws and regulations and to implement related data protection measures could be significant. We may also have to change the manner in which we contract with our business partners, store and transfer information and otherwise conduct our business, which could increase our costs and harm our financial results. In addition, even inadvertent failure to comply with federal, state, or international privacy-related or data protection laws and regulations could result in proceedings against us by governmental entities or others, resulting in fines, penalties, restrictions on or prohibitions on our operations in certain jurisdictions, increased compliance costs and other adverse effects.. We are subject to pending securities class action and shareholder derivative legal proceedings.. Several purported securities class action lawsuits were filed against us and our Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer following our March 8, 2011 announcement of unaudited financial results for the third quarter of fiscal 2011 and our financial outlook for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011. We also have been named as a nominal defendant in several shareholder derivative lawsuits filed in 2011 concerning our March 8, 2011 earnings announcement. No specific amounts of damages have been alleged in the class action lawsuits and, by the nature of the lawsuits, no damages will be alleged against Finisar in the derivative lawsuits.. We will continue to incur legal fees in connection with these pending cases, including expenses for the reimbursement of legal fees of present and former officers and directors under indemnification obligations. The expense of continuing to defend such litigation may be significant. We intend to defend these lawsuits vigorously, however there can be no assurance that we will be successful in any defense. If any of the lawsuits related to our earnings announcement are adversely decided, we may be liable for significant damages directly or under our indemnification obligations, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows. Further, the amount of time that will be required to resolve these lawsuits is unpredictable and these actions may divert management's attention from the day-to-day operations of our business, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows.. Our business and future operating results may be adversely affected by events outside our control.. 19. Table of Contents. Our business and operating results are vulnerable to events outside of our control, such as earthquakes, floods, fire, power loss, telecommunication failures and uncertainties arising out of terrorist attacks in the United States and overseas. Our corporate headquarters and a portion of our manufacturing operations are located in California, and our principal manufacturing operations and those of most of our key suppliers and contract manufacturers are located in Asia.  These areas have been vulnerable to natural disasters, such as earthquakes, floods and fires, and other risks which at times have disrupted the local economy and posed physical risks to our property. We are also dependent on communications links with our overseas manufacturing locations and would be significantly harmed if these links were interrupted for any significant length of time. We presently do not have adequate redundant, multiple site capacity if any of these events were to occur, nor can we be certain that the insurance we maintain against these events would be adequate.. The conversion of our outstanding convertible notes would result in substantial dilution to our current stockholders.. As of April 29, 2018, we had outstanding an aggregate principal amount of $258.8 million of our 2033 Notes and an aggregate principal amount of $575.0 million of our 2036 Notes. The 2033 Notes are convertible at the option of the holder, under certain circumstances, into shares of our common stock at an initial conversion price of $30.18 per share, subject to adjustments, and the 2036 Notes are convertible at the option of the holder, under certain circumstances, into shares of our common stock at an initial conversion price of $44.17 per share, subject to adjustments. An aggregate of approximately 8,572,413 and 13,017,885 shares of common stock would be issued upon the conversion of all outstanding 2033 Notes and all outstanding 2036 Notes, respectively, at these conversion prices, which would dilute the voting power and ownership percentage of our existing stockholders. We have previously entered into privately negotiated transactions with certain holders of our convertible notes for the repurchase of notes in exchange for a greater number of shares of our common stock than would have been issued had the principal amount of the notes been converted at the original conversion rate specified in the notes, thus resulting in more dilution. We may enter into similar transactions in the future and, if we do so, there will be additional dilution to the voting power and percentage ownership of our existing stockholders.. Delaware law, our charter documents and our stockholder rights plan contain provisions that could discourage or prevent a potential takeover, even if such a transaction would be beneficial to our stockholders.. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable. These include provisions:. • authorizing the board of directors to issue additional preferred stock;. • prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors;. • limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders;. • prohibiting stockholder actions by written consent;. • creating a classified board of directors pursuant to which our directors are elected for staggered three-year terms;. • permitting the board of directors to increase the size of the board and to fill vacancies;. • requiring a super-majority vote of our stockholders to amend our bylaws and certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation; and. • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings.. We are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which limit the right of a corporation to engage in a business combination with a holder of 15% or more of the corporation's outstanding voting securities, or certain affiliated persons.. Although we believe that these charter and bylaw provisions and provisions of Delaware law provide an opportunity for the board to assure that our stockholders realize full value for their investment, they could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, even under circumstances that some stockholders may consider beneficial.. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on Finisar common stock and, consequently, a stockholder's ability to achieve a return on such stockholder's investment will depend on appreciation in the price of the common stock.. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on Finisar common stock and we do not currently intend to do so for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth. Therefore, a stockholder is not likely to receive any dividends on such stockholder's common stock for the foreseeable future.. Our stock price has been and is likely to continue to be volatile.. 20. Table of Contents. The trading price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be subject to large fluctuations. Our stock price may increase or decrease in response to a number of events and factors, including:. • trends in our industry and the markets in which we operate;. • changes in the market price of the products we sell;. • changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts;. • acquisitions and financings;. • quarterly variations in our operating results;. • the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors in our common stock may deem comparable; and. • purchases or sales of blocks of our common stock.. Part of this volatility is attributable to the current state of the stock market, in which wide price swings are common. This volatility may adversely affect the prices of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. If any of the foregoing occurs, our stock price could fall and we may be exposed to class action lawsuits that, even if unsuccessful, could be costly to defend and a distraction to management.. Our business and operations would be adversely impacted in the event of a failure of our information technology infrastructure.. We rely upon the capacity, reliability and security of our information technology infrastructure and our ability to expand and continually update this infrastructure in response to our changing needs. In some cases, we may rely upon third-party hosting and support services to meet these needs. Any failure to manage, expand and update our information technology infrastructure, including our Enterprise Resource Planning (\"ERP\") system and other applications, any failure in the extension or operation of this infrastructure, or any failure by our hosting and support partners in the performance of their services could materially and adversely harm our business. Despite our implementation of security measures, our systems are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, natural disasters, unauthorized access and other similar disruptions. Any system failure, accident or security breach could result in disruptions to our operations. To the extent that any disruption or security breach results in a loss or damage to our data or in inappropriate disclosure of confidential information, it could cause significant damage to our reputation, affect our relationships with our customers, and ultimately harm our business. In addition, we may be required to incur significant costs to protect against or mitigate damage caused by these disruptions or security breaches in the future."
