[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the risks, uncertainties and other factors described below, in addition to the other information set forth in this Form 10-K, before making an investment decision. Any of these risks, uncertainties and other factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or prospects. In that case, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. See also \"Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.\". Risks Related to Our Cybersecurity Business. We are presently substantially reliant on a limited number of patented technologies that we own through Finjan that have begun to expire.. We derive substantially all of our income from a relatively small number of patented technologies. As of December 31, 2017, our assets consisted primarily of Finjan's 29 U.S. and 38 international patents,  and Finjan Blue's 24 patents acquired from IBM with additional pending applications we are processing in patent offices around the world. Finjan's current U.S. issued patents began expiring in 2017, and we currently have 2 U.S. patent applications and 1 international patent application pending as of the date of the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. As new technological advances occur, many of the patented technologies we own through Finjan may become obsolete before they are completely monetized. The monetization of our patented technologies through Finjan Blue has been limited to date. There can be no certainty that we will be able to monetize our Finjan Blue patents sufficiently to recoup the cost of acquiring such patents. If we are unable to monetize our current patent assets for any reason, including obsolescence of our technologies, the expiration of our patents, or challenges to the enforceability of our patents through patent office ex parte re-examination or Inter Partes Reviews (\"IPRs\") or any other reason, our business and prospects would be materially harmed.. We have a history of significant legal expense and this may increase in the future.. We reported net income from operations of $22.8 million and $0.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 respectively and a net loss of $12.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2015. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $41.2 million in cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments and working capital of $36.3 million. Although we reported net income from operations for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, we expect to continue incurring significant legal and other selling, general and administrative expenses in connection with our operations. We believe, however, that our existing revenue opportunities, balances of cash and cash equivalents and investments will be sufficient to finance our anticipated capital and operating requirements for the next twelve months from the date of filing this annual report. Such belief is based on current forecasts and assumptions regarding licensing of our technology, which are currently at various stages of negotiation (which may not be successfully completed), our emerging business, as well as other financing and revenue sources. We may not be successful. 13. Table of Contents. in finalizing such licensing efforts and even if successful, may need to raise additional capital in order to provide sufficient funds to support and grow our business.. Any failure to protect or enforce our patents or other intellectual property rights could materially impair our business.. Our ability to successfully operate our business depends largely on the validity and enforceability of our patents and the relevance of our patent rights to commercially viable products or services. Third parties have challenged, and we expect will continue to challenge, the infringement, validity and enforceability of certain of our patents.  In some instances, our patent claims could be substantially narrowed or declared invalid, unenforceable, not essential, not infringed or a combination of the foregoing.  We cannot assure you that the validity and enforceability of our patents will be maintained or that our patent claims will be applicable to any particular product or service.  In addition, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (the \"USPTO\") could invalidate or render unenforceable our patents or materially narrow the scope of the patent claims during the course of USPTO post-grant proceedings such as, for example, re-examinations or IPRs. Any significant adverse finding by the USPTO or adverse verdict of a court as to the validity, enforceability or scope of certain of our patents and/or any successful design around certain of our patents could materially and adversely affect our ability to secure future settlements or licenses on favorable terms, if at all, and otherwise harm our business.. Under the American Invents Act (\"AIA\"), patents previously granted by the USPTO may be reviewed through post-patent grant proceedings such as reexaminations or IPRs.  The basic characteristics of Ex Parte reexamination are: the patent owner or a third party may request the USPTO to reexamine an issued U.S. patent based on patents and printed publications that the requester submits for the USPTO's consideration.  The requester must establish that the submitted prior art establishes a substantial and new question of patentability, and if the requester meets such burden, the USPTO will grant the request and order reexamination of the patent at issue.  Unless the requester of the reexamination is the patent owner, the requester's participation terminates following such reexamination order and only the patent owner may proceed. The patent owner can appeal the final decision of the Central Reexamination Unit (\"CRU\") of the USPTO to the Patent Trial and Appeal Board (\"PTAB\") and may further appeal a negative decision to the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit (\"CAFC\").. Generally, the grounds on which a petition for IPR is granted is whether the claimed invention is patentable strictly in light of prior art consisting of patents or printed publications. The petitioner must demonstrate that there is a reasonable likelihood that he/she/it will prevail as to at least one of the patent claims challenged to trigger the IPR.  The PTAB decides on petitions and can reject them if the prior art is the same or substantially the same prior art or arguments previously presented to the USPTO.  If the petition is granted, an IPR is statutorily required to be completed within one year of institution, which is extendable for up to six months for good cause.  Unlike reexaminations, the third party petitioner may stay involved in the proceedings.  IPRs are handled at the outset by the PTAB and do not go through the CRU of the USPTO.  Final decisions of the PTAB are immediately appealable to the CAFC, either by the patent owner or the third party. It is becoming a trend, if not a practice, for accused infringers to petition for reexaminations or IPRs of asserted patents as these proceedings may give the petitioner \"two bites at the apple\".  Parties to our enforcement actions may initiate IPRs with respect to our patents in the future.  Although we believe our patents are patentable in light of prior art, these proceedings are relatively new and unpredictable. The outcome of the proceedings can range from decisions favorable to the patent holder, favorable to both parties, or favorable to the petitioner. If the outcome is the latter, the value of the challenged patent can be materially reduced or extinguished.. Our licensing cycle is lengthy and costly, and our licensing efforts may be unsuccessful.. The process of engaging a potential licensee to adopt a license can be lengthy and may not always result in a license agreement. It may take many months or longer to identify potential licensees, prepare marketing, technical or other materials, educate potential licensees on the benefits of entering into a license and agree, if at all, to licensing terms, conditions and price. Even after expending significant time and resources into licensing efforts, we may be unsuccessful in entering into a licensing agreement with a potential licensee. As such, we may incur significant losses in any particular period before any associated revenue stream begins, if at all.. We currently are, and expect to continue to be involved in costly, time-consuming and uncertain litigation and administrative actions to enforce our patents, which may adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to operate our business.. If we believe a third party is infringing one or more of our patents and refuses to obtain a license to use our patented technologies, we may be compelled to commence legal or administrative action against those third parties. For example, due to the breakdown in licensing discussions, we initiated patent infringement litigation against Juniper Networks, Bitdefender, and Zscaler in the second half of 2017. Patent litigation is inherently uncertain and we cannot predict the outcome of any litigation or administrative action. Moreover, many of the parties we believe infringe our patents are large and well-funded companies with substantially greater resources than we have and may devote substantial resources toward avoiding or limiting liability and the amount of associated damages for infringing our patents. We could also face counterclaims that challenge the essential nature, validity,. 14. Table of Contents. enforceability or infringement of our patents. Regardless of whether legal action is successful, legal and expert fees and other costs associated with enforcement action are significant.. Our cash flows can be unpredictable, and this may harm our financial condition or the market price for our common stock.. The amount and timing of cash flows from our licensing and enforcement activities are subject to uncertainties stemming primarily from uncertainties regarding the rates of adoption of our patented technologies, our lengthy license negotiation cycles, the growth rates of our licensees, the outcome of enforcement actions and certain other factors. As such, our income and cash flows may vary significantly from period to period, which could make our business difficult to manage, adversely affect our business and operating results, cause our annual or quarterly results to fall below market expectations and adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. Our cash flows and income have been derived from a limited number of sources.. Our net income in recent years has been derived from a limited number of license agreements and settlements, and we expect that, in the near term, any income that we generate will be derived from a limited number of sources. In 2017, we derived approximately $50.4 million of income from license agreements with six licensees. In 2016, we derived approximately $18.4 million of income from license agreements with six licensees. In 2015, we derived approximately $4.7 million of income from license agreements with three licensees. If we are unable to reach settlements and license agreements with a sufficient number of identified third parties who use our technologies, our future income and cash flow could be adversely affected.. We may raise additional capital to support our present business plan and our anticipated business growth and such capital may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all, which would adversely affect our ability to operate.. During 2017, we raised net proceeds of  $14.4 million through the issuance of Series A-1 Preferred Stock and net proceeds of $12.0 million through the public offering and sale of our common stock. Based on our current operating plans (which includes our expectation of signing additional license agreements in 2018, which may not occur), our current resources are expected to be sufficient to fund our planned operations for the coming twelve months. We nonetheless may raise additional financing to fund licensing and enforcement actions, planned research and development activities and to better solidify our financial position. We may also need to raise additional funds in connection with any acquisitions of technology or intellectual property assets that we pursue. Such additional capital may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all, which would adversely affect our operations.  If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience dilution. Debt financing, if available, may involve covenants restricting our operations or our ability to incur additional debt. Any debt or additional equity financing that we raise may contain terms that are not favorable to us or our stockholders.. Further, if we are unable to obtain additional funding on a timely basis, we may be required to curtail or terminate some or all of our business plans, which would harm our operating results.. Any debt we incur in the future in capital raising efforts may limit our flexibility to obtain further financing and to pursue other business opportunities.. If our anticipated capital raising efforts involve debt financing, we will have limitations on our ability to raise additional debt financing or incur liens, as well as other limitations. Such limitations may limit our flexibility to pursue other business opportunities. Additionally, our future level of indebtedness could have important consequences to us, including the following:. • our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms;. • our funds available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to stockholders will be reduced by that portion of our cash flow required to make future interest payments on any debt incurred; and. • we may be more vulnerable to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally.. Our ability to service any debt raised in the future will depend upon, among other things, our successful monetization of our patents, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, and other factors, some of which are beyond our control.. 15. Table of Contents. If we are unable to successfully commercialize our new business or identify additional sources of revenue, our financial condition and operations may be materially adversely impacted.. We generate substantially all of our revenue from license and settlement agreements related to our patented technologies.  In 2015, we launched our new cybersecurity advisory business, CybeRisk, and our mobile security business, Finjan Mobile. In 2017 Finjan Blue was founded to support our development and licensing efforts of the IBM Security Patents obtained by Finjan Blue through the Patent Assignment and Support Agreement with IBM. The Agreement, the terms of which are confidential, includes pathways for Finjan and IBM to consider development efforts in the future and provides for the sharing of pertinent institutional knowledge and resources by IBM to Finjan Blue. Since such businesses are relatively new and unproven, they may not yield any viable new revenue, inventions or technology, which would lead to a loss of our investment in such activities.  Such activities could also distract our management team from its present business initiatives, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business.  If we are unable to generate sufficient revenue from such businesses or invent or acquire new technologies or products, our financial condition and operations may be materially impacted.. If we suffer a cyber-security event, we may lose Finjan Mobile customer data and incur liabilities, any of which would harm our business and operating results.. As cyber-security threats develop and evolve, it may be necessary to make further investments to protect data and infrastructure. A security breach or unauthorized access or loss of data could result in a disruption to our Finjan Mobile service, litigation, the triggering of indemnification and other contractual obligations, regulatory investigations, government fines and penalties, reputational damage, loss of sales and customers, mitigation and remediation expenses among other liabilities. At this time, such a cyber-security event would be immaterial, however as we continue to grow our Finjan Mobile business, such an event could result in significant liability.. We may have to invest more resources in research and development than anticipated, which could increase our operating expenses and negatively impact our operating results.. If new competitors, technological advances by existing competitors, and/or development of new technologies or other competitive factors require us to invest significantly greater resources than anticipated in our research and development efforts, our operating expenses could increase significantly. If we are required to invest significantly greater resources than anticipated in research and development efforts without an increase in revenue, our operating results would decline. We expect research and development expenses to increase in the foreseeable future as our technology development efforts continue.. We may be unable to achieve the financial or other goals intended at the time of any potential acquisition.. Our growth strategy includes the potential acquisition of patent, technology or other business assets or companies to further diversify our assets and business operations.  We may not be successful in identifying or funding acquisitions that are consistent with our strategy or in completing such acquisitions.  Acquisitions of patent, technology or other business assets or companies are subject to numerous potential risks, including the following:. • our inability to enter into a definitive agreement with respect to any potential acquisition, or if we are able to enter into such agreement, our inability to consummate the potential acquisition;. • our inability to achieve the anticipated financial and other benefits of a specific acquisition;. • our inability to obtain the necessary financing, on favorable terms or at all, to finance any or all of our potential acquisitions;. • risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions;. • our inability to retain key personnel from an acquired company, if necessary;. • difficulty in maintaining controls, procedures and policies during the transition and integration process;. • our inability to integrate the target company's technologies, products or businesses with ours;. • diversion of our management's attention from other business concerns; and. 16. Table of Contents. • failure of our due diligence processes to identify significant issues, including issues with respect to patented technologies and patent portfolios, and other legal and financial contingencies.. If we are unable to manage these risks effectively as part of any acquisition, our business and prospects could be adversely affected. Depending upon the nature and structure of future acquisitions, our stockholders may not have the ability to vote on, or consent to, the consummation of any such acquisition.. Technologies we acquire in the future, if any, may not be commercially successful.. We may acquire patents and technologies that are in the early stages of adoption in the commercial and consumer markets. Demand for some of these technologies may be untested and subject to fluctuation based upon the rate at which such patents and technologies are adopted in products and services. These technologies may require long development cycles and a substantial investment before we can determine their commercial viability. As a result, there can be no assurance as to whether technologies we acquire will have value that can be timely monetized, if at all. Through Finjan Blue, we entered into a Patent Assignment and Support Agreement with IBM, effective August 24, 2017. Under the Patent Assignment Agreement, IBM is to support Finjan Blue in its development and licensing of the IBM Security Patents.  However, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts to develop and license the IBM Security Patents or that we will recoup our investment in the IBM Security Patents.. Failures in our due diligence and/or inaccuracies of representations and warranties made by third parties may expose us to material liabilities, write-downs or write-offs in the future.. We expect to conduct due diligence investigations of the patent technology or other intellectual property assets of companies we seek to acquire in the future. Due diligence is time consuming and expensive and at times, we may also rely on opinions or representations or warranties of third parties to supplement, replace or support our own independent due diligence. Even if we conduct extensive due diligence on particular patent technology or other intellectual property assets or companies, this diligence may not reveal all material issues that affect the acquisition. If our diligence fails to identify issues related to the applicable patent, technology or other intellectual property assets or companies or industry to which they relate, or opinions, representations or warranties prove to be inaccurate, we may be forced to later write-down or write-off assets or incur impairment or other charges that could result in our reporting losses. Even though these charges may be non-cash items and not have an immediate impact on our liquidity, the fact that we report charges of this nature could contribute to negative market perceptions about us or our common stock. In addition, we may acquire patent technologies or other intellectual property assets or companies from a seller who does not have proper title to those assets. In those cases, we could lose part or all of our investment in the assets.. Our acquisitions of patents, technology and other assets or companies may be time consuming, complex and costly, which could adversely affect our operating results.. Acquisitions of patent, technology or other intellectual property assets or companies may be time consuming, complex and costly to consummate. As a result, we expect to incur significant operating expenses and use a substantial portion of our cash resources.. We may incur significant costs to organize and negotiate a structured acquisition that does not ultimately result in an acquisition of any patent, technology or other intellectual property assets or companies or, if consummated, proves to be unprofitable for us. These costs could adversely affect our operating results, and if we incur losses, the value of our securities could decline.. Our acquisitions of patents, technology or other assets or companies may involve issuing capital that would be dilutive to our stockholders, cause our stock price to drop, or involve raising capital on unfavorable terms, if available.. Acquisitions of patent, technology or other intellectual property assets or companies may require us to raise capital during the negotiations even if the acquisition is ultimately not consummated.  If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity-linked or debt securities, including those pursuant to a registered offering, those securities may have rights, preferences, or privileges senior to the rights of our common stock, and our existing stockholders may experience dilution. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, the perception that these sales or other financings might occur, could depress the market price of our common stock and could also impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. If we issue debt securities or incur indebtedness, the incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased fixed payment obligations and could also result in restrictive covenants, such as limitations on our ability to incur additional debt, limitations on our ability to acquire, sell or license patents, technology or other intellectual property assets or companies and other operating restrictions that could adversely impact our ability to conduct our business. If we are unable to obtain additional capital, or are unable to obtain additional capital on satisfactory terms, our ability to continue to support our business growth or to respond to business opportunities, challenges, or other circumstances could be adversely affected, and our business may be harmed.. 17. Table of Contents. It may be difficult for us to verify royalty amounts that we are owed under licensing agreements, and this may cause us to lose revenues.. We anticipate that the terms of future license agreements may require licensees to document their use of our technologies and report related data to us on a periodic basis. Although license terms may give us the right to audit books and records of licensees to verify this information, audits can be expensive and time consuming, and may not be cost-effective based on our understanding of a licensee's business. Furthermore, any license compliance program that we establish to audit certain licensees in order to review the accuracy of the information contained in their royalty reports may not be effective to ensure that we receive royalties to which we are entitled.. We depend on key senior management, engineering, patent and licensing resources.. Our future success depends largely upon the continued contributions of our directors, executive officers and other key management and technical personnel. Our success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel with specialized patent, licensing, and other skills (particularly in the cybersecurity field).  The loss of members of our management or key personnel could adversely affect our business.  The market for such talent in our industry is extremely competitive, especially in Silicon Valley. In particular, competition exists for qualified individuals with expertise in patents and in licensing and the ability to identify and acquire technologies and patent assets. The failure to attract and retain such persons with relevant and appropriate experience could interfere with our ability to enter into new license agreements, acquire new technologies or otherwise meet our strategic objectives.. The success of our cybersecurity business depends in part upon our ability to retain the best legal counsel to represent us in patent litigation and our ability to manage the costs of such services.. The success of our licensing and enforcement business depends upon our ability to retain the best legal counsel to advise us and manage our enforcement and litigation activities and our ability to manage the costs of such services. As our licensing and enforcement actions increase, it may become more difficult to find the best legal counsel to handle our active litigation cases, as conflicts may prevent them from representing us. Also, since the cost of litigation can be very uncertain, we may underestimate the cost of legal counsel and related activities, in relation to the value of the enforcement activity.. Federal courts are becoming more crowded, and as a result, patent enforcement litigation is taking longer and becoming more costly.. Since patent disputes involving infringement, validity, and enforceability are governed by federal law, our patent enforcement actions are decided within the federal court system. The federal court calendars are often congested with other civil and criminal proceedings, giving rise to the risk of delays in our patent enforcement actions.  Such delays may have a negative impact on resolution of our disputes, adversely affect the timing of our cash flow projections and therefore, have a negative impact on our business. Further, lengthening of the litigation process increases the cost of litigation thereby harming our business.. Any reductions in the funding of the USPTO could have an adverse impact on the cost of processing pending patent applications and the value of those pending patent applications.. Our business plan includes the possible acquisition of patent applications pending before the USPTO. The value of any patent application we acquire will be dependent upon the issuance of patents in a timely manner, and any reductions in the funding of the USPTO could materially delay the process by which the USPTO issues patents and consequently any income that may be derived for the technologies claimed in the patent application. Further, reductions in funding from Congress could result in higher patent application filing and maintenance fees charged by the USPTO, causing an unexpected increase in our expenses.. Competition for patent rights and patent portfolios is intense.. We expect to encounter significant competition in the areas of cybersecurity technology and intellectual property acquisitions. This includes a growing number of competitors seeking to acquire the same companies or similar patents and technologies that we may seek to acquire. We also compete with venture capital firms, strategic corporate buyers and various industry leaders for technology acquisitions and licensing opportunities.. 18. Table of Contents. The markets served by our cybersecurity technologies are subject to rapid technological change, and if we are unable to acquire new technologies and patents, our ability to generate income could be substantially impaired.. The markets served by our cybersecurity technologies and our licensees frequently undergo transitions in which products rapidly incorporate new features and performance standards on an industry-wide basis. Cybersecurity products are based on continually evolving consumer demands. This will require continued efforts and success in acquiring new patent portfolios with licensing and enforcement opportunities. If we are unable to acquire new patented technologies and patent portfolios, or to identify and ensure compliance with evolving industry standards, our ability to generate income could be substantially impaired and our business and financial condition could be materially harmed.. Our public company disclosure obligations may have unintended adverse consequences on our licensing and patent enforcement strategy.. As a public company, we are subject to the disclosure and reporting requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and other applicable U.S. securities laws, as well as the rules and regulations of the SEC and NASDAQ. In order to comply with such laws, rules and regulations, we may be required to disclose certain information that may be detrimental to our current or future licensing and enforcement programs. In addition, our disclosure obligations may adversely affect our ability to enter into license or settlement agreements with third parties who are reluctant to have the monetary value and terms of such agreements publicly disclosed. In such instances, we may seek confidential treatment of certain information reflected in our license or settlement agreements, which requests may be denied by the SEC or limited to a greater extent than requested, which would harm our relationship with current and future licensees. Also, we may incur additional costs and expenses seeking confidential treatment of certain information reflected in such license or settlement agreements, which would negatively impact our operations.. We are obligated to maintain proper and effective internal control over financial reporting. We may not complete our analysis of our internal control over financial reporting in a timely manner, or this internal control may not be determined to be effective, which may adversely affect investor confidence in our company and, as a result, the value of our common stock.. While we were able to determine in our management's report for fiscal 2017 that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, we may not be able to complete our evaluation, testing, and any required remediation in a timely fashion, may be unable to assert that our internal controls are effective in the future. In the event that our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, or independent registered public accounting firm determines in the future that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective as defined under Section 404, we could be subject to one or more investigations or enforcement actions by state or federal regulatory agencies, stockholder lawsuits or other adverse actions requiring us to incur defense costs, pay fines, settlements or judgments and causing investor perceptions to be adversely affected and potentially resulting in a decline in the market price of our stock.. New legislation, regulations, executive orders, or rules related to obtaining patents or enforcing patents could significantly increase our operating costs and decrease our income.. If new legislation, regulations or rules are implemented either by Congress, the USPTO, other regulatory agencies or the courts, or if the President of the United States issues executive orders that impact the patent application process, the patent enforcement process or the rights of patent holders, these changes could materially and negatively affect our revenue and expenses. For example, relatively new rules regarding the burden of proof in patent enforcement actions could significantly increase the cost of our enforcement actions, and new standards or limitations on liability for patent infringement or limitations on the ability to bring patent enforcement claims could negatively impact our income derived from such enforcement actions.  Similarly, recent judicial decisions relating to fee shifting in patent infringement actions and limitations relating to software patents may make patent licensing and enforcement activities more difficult and costly, though it is unclear what the precise impact of these judicial decisions will be.. Furthermore, U.S. patent laws have been amended by the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, or the AIA, certain sections of which became effective in September 2011. The AIA includes a number of significant changes to U.S. patent law. In general, the legislation attempts to address issues surrounding the enforceability of patents and the increase in patent litigation by, among other things, establishing new procedures for patent litigation. For example, the AIA changes the way that parties may be joined in patent infringement actions, increasing the likelihood that such actions will need to be brought individually against parties allegedly infringing by their respective allegations of infringement. In practice, however, many courts have consolidated separate actions asserting the same patent for the purposes of case management and discovery, although individual trials remain separate. In addition, accused infringers may now choose to attack patent validity by instituting an IPR process before the PTAB. In 2015, in In Re Cuozzo Speed Techs., 793 F.3d 1268 (Fed. Cir. 2015), the Federal Circuit upheld a decision permitting the PTAB to evaluate patent claims under a \"broadest reasonable interpretation\" (\"BRI\") standard. This standard used by the PTAB is higher than the \"plain. 19. Table of Contents. and ordinary meaning\" standard used in federal district courts, and has led to an arguably higher incidence of the PTAB finding claims invalid in light of prior art. In January 2016, the Supreme Court agreed to hear the appeal on this issue as well as the issue of what decisions by the PTAB are appealable to the traditional appellate court system. It remains unclear what, if any, impact the AIA will have on the operation of our patent monetization and enforcement business. However, the AIA and its implementation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the enforcement of our patented technologies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.. In addition, the United States Department of Justice (\"DOJ\") has conducted reviews of the patent system to evaluate the impact of patent assertion entities on industries in which those patents relate. It is possible that the findings and recommendations of the DOJ could impact the ability to effectively license and enforce standards-essential patents and could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the enforcement of any such patented technologies.. Furthermore, in various pending litigation and appeals in the United States Federal courts, various arguments and legal theories are being advanced to potentially limit the scope of damages a patent licensing company might be entitled to. Any one of these pending cases could result in new legal doctrines that could make our existing or future patent portfolios less valuable or costlier to enforce.. On April 29, 2014, the United States Supreme Court (\"Supreme Court\") issued a decision, Octane Fitness, LLC v. Icon Health & Fitness, Inc., 134 S. Ct. 1749 (2014), relaxing the standard for awarding attorneys' fees to prevailing parties in patent cases. While the Supreme Court maintained the standard that a case must be deemed \"exceptional\" under 35 U.S.C. § 285 for an award of attorneys' fees, it held that district courts were to consider the \"totality of the circumstances\" in making that determination, that it was not necessary for a court to find independently sanctionable conduct or both objective baselessness and subjective bad faith, and that clear and convincing evidence was not required. Although we are committed to litigating our patent cases in the court room with the highest standard of professional conduct and on the merits of our claims, litigation is unpredictable.  We, therefore, cannot guarantee that we will prevail in our litigation matters or that we will not be ordered to pay the prevailing party's attorneys' fees, which may be substantial.. On June 19, 2014, the Supreme Court issued a landmark decision in which it significantly tightened the standard for patentability of software patents. Alice Corp. Pty. Ltd. v. CLS Bank Int'l, 134 S. Ct. 2347 (2014). Specifically, the Supreme Court stated that if you have an idea so abstract that it cannot be patented, simply tying it to a \"generic computer cannot transform a patent-ineligible abstract idea into a patent-eligible invention.\" The Supreme Court further stated that tying the abstract idea to \"purely functional and generic\" hardware would, similarly, not make the idea patentable. Arguably, the Alice decision is intended to limit the validity of poor quality software patents. The Alice decision may provide accused infringers of software patents new arguments to challenge the validity of such patents. Since Alice, however, the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit (\"Federal Circuit\") has addressed a handful of decisions regarding patent eligibility of software and user interfaces in relation to electronic devices.  Pertinent to our business are Core Wireless Licensing S.A.R.L. v. LG Electronics, Inc., LG Electronics Mobilecomm U.S.A., Inc., __F.3d __ (Case No. 2016-2684, 2017-1922, Fed. Cir. 2018) and Finjan, Inc. v. Blue Coat Systems, Inc., __ F.3d__ (Case No. 2016-2520, Fed. Cir. 2018).  In both cases, the Federal Circuit found the subject claimed inventions patent eligible and not abstract because they each recited \"specific improvement[s] over prior systems.\"  Practically, the effects of the Alice decision are still being assessed as patent holders, attorneys, the USPTO, and courts, are trying to determine the proper bounds of the Alice decision.  We cannot guarantee that the Alice decision and ensuing developments will not have a negative impact on our business.. On June 16, 2015, the Federal Circuit issued an opinion which may lead to more patents being challenged on indefiniteness grounds. Williamson v. Citrix Online, LLC, 792 F.3d 1339 (Fed. Cir. 2015). One type of patent claim is a \"means-plus-function\" claim. Section 112(f) of the Patent Act requires that means-plus-function claims include a \"corresponding structure,\" described in the specification, for performing the function. Previous cases had held that if a claim did not include the word \"means,\" there was a strong presumption that the requirements of section 112(f) did not apply. The Williamson court removed the word \"strong\" from the presumption, as well as the requirement for a heightened evidentiary showing. Williamson may result in an increase in accused infringers challenging patent claims on indefiniteness grounds. Such result could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations.. On June 13, 2016, the Supreme Court issued Halo Electronics, Inc. v. Pulse Electronics, Inc., 579 U.S. ___ (No. 14-1513, June 13, 2016), in which a unanimous Supreme Court rejected the 2007 Federal Circuit decision, In re Seagate Technology LLC, 497 F.3d 1360 (Fed. Cir. 2007) (en banc), which established a stringent standard for proving willful patent infringement (aka the \"Seagate test\".  The Supreme Court instead held that the Seagate test was inconsistent with 35 USC § 284, that provides that \"a court may increase the damages up to three times\" the amount awarded in a lower court, and \"is unduly rigid, and it impermissibly encumbers the statutory grant of discretion to district courts.\"  Accordingly, the district court judges and juries now have greater latitude to decide the willfulness question and award the prevailing patentee enhanced damages, with the caveat that such a finding. 20. Table of Contents. should be made only in \"egregious\" cases.  Notwithstanding Halo, enhanced damages for willful infringement is not guaranteed, and we, therefore, cannot guarantee that Halo will not have a negative impact on our business.. On May 22, 2017, the Supreme Court issued TC Heartland LLC v. Kraft Foods Group Brands LLC, 137 S.Ct. 1514 (No. 16-341, May 22, 2017).  This decision focused on the question of where a domestic corporate defendant can be sued, i.e., the patent venue under 28 USC §1400(b).  Where the Federal Circuit had held in VE Holding Corp. v. Johnson Gas Appliance Co., 917 F.2d 1574 (Fed.Cir. 1990), that patent cases could be brought in any district having personal jurisdiction over the defendant, the Supreme Court in TC Heartland determined that for purposes of patent venue, a domestic corporate defendant only resides in its state of incorporation.  The impact of TC Heartland has shown, among other things, a dramatic decrease in new patent actions filed in the Eastern District of Texas (which accounted for nearly 40% of patent cases filed in the US), while the District of Delaware, where more than half of all publicly traded domestic companies are incorporated had a significant increase in the number of new patent cases filings.  The District Court for the Northern District of California - which is where the majority of our cases are filed -- has also gained noticeable increase in new patent filings.  Although most of our cases are filed in the Northern District of California, we cannot guarantee that we will not have to file in another venue or that filing in another venue will not have a negative impact on our business.. Further, and in general, it is impossible to determine the extent of the impact of any new laws, regulations or initiatives that may be proposed, or whether any of the proposals will become enacted as laws. Compliance with any new or existing laws or regulations could be difficult and expensive, affect the manner in which we conduct our business and negatively impact our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations.. Our operations are subject to risks of natural disasters, acts of war, terrorism or widespread illness, any one of which could result in a business stoppage and negatively affect our operating results.. Our business operations depend on our ability to maintain and protect our facility, computer systems and personnel, which are primarily located in East Palo Alto. Our business operations are in close proximity to known earthquake fault zones. Our facility and transportation for our employees are susceptible to damage from earthquakes and other natural disasters such as fires, floods and similar events. Should earthquakes or other catastrophes such as fires, floods, power outages, communication failures or similar events disable our facilities, we do not have readily available alternative facilities from which we could conduct our business, which stoppage could have a negative effect on our operating results. Acts of terrorism, widespread illness and war could also have a negative effect at our international and domestic facilities and on our operating results.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. Concentration of ownership among our existing executive officers, directors and their affiliates, and others who beneficially own at least 10% of our outstanding common stock, may prevent new investors from influencing significant corporate decisions.. Our executive officers, directors and their affiliates, together with others who own at least 10% of our outstanding common stock, beneficially own or control approximately 20% of our common stock. Accordingly, these persons, acting individually or as a group, will have substantial influence over the outcome of a corporate action requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets or any other significant corporate transaction. These stockholders may also exert influence in delaying or preventing a change in control of our company, even if such change in control would benefit our other stockholders. In addition, the significant concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the market value of our common stock due to investors' perception that conflicts of interest may exist or arise.. Future sales by us or our existing stockholders could dilute our stockholders and depress the market price of our common stock.. Based on information contained in Schedule 13D/A and Form 4 filings made throughout 2017 and in January and February 2018, two of our significant stockholders sold a significant number of shares of our common stock.  While it is not easy to quantify how such sales may have depressed our share price, if these stockholders continue to sell (which we expect), or other existing stockholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock, or if we sell additional common stock or securities that are convertible into common stock, in the future, the market price of our common stock could decline.  Further, even the perception in the public market that we or our existing stockholders might sell shares of common stock could depress the market price of our common stock.. In addition, the issuance of additional shares by us, including (i) 4,140,000 shares of our common stock in a public offering in 2017 and (ii) the issuance of 2,196,836 shares of our common stock underlying outstanding stock options and restricted stock units, 1,280,979 of which were vested as of December 31, 2017, could dilute our stockholders' ownership and voting interests in. 21. Table of Contents. the Company and increase the number of shares of our common stock eligible for resale in the public market. Further, following approval of our stockholders at our 2017 annual meeting of stockholders, we (i) increased the number of shares reserved under our 2014 Incentive Compensation Plan (\"2014 Plan\") by 1,000,000 shares and (ii) added an \"evergreen\" feature which provides for the annual replenishment of shares to the 2014 Plan share reserve without stockholder approval (equal to 5.0% of our outstanding shares of Common Stock as of the end of our immediately preceding fiscal year).  The issuance of shares of our common stock underlying stock options and restricted stock units to be issued following such increase will dilute our stockholders' ownership and voting interests in the Company and increase the number of shares of our common stock eligible for resale in the public market. Finally, in 2017 the Company issued to Soryn HLDR a fully vested common stock warrant to purchase 2,355,506 shares of common stock, at an exercise price of $3.18 per share, with a term of three years in connection with the Series A-1 Preferred Stock financing.  The exercise of such warrant will further dilute our stockholders' ownership and voting interests in the Company and increase the number of shares of our common stock eligible for resale in the public market.. Our Common Stock may be affected by trading volume and price fluctuations, which could adversely impact the value of our Common Stock.. The stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies with securities traded in those markets. Broad market and industry factors may seriously affect the market price of companies' stock, including ours, regardless of actual operating performance.. Market prices for public companies whose principle revenues are derived from the licensing of intellectual property have been particularly volatile. We believe that various factors may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially, and the factors include, among others, the following:. • quarterly variations in our operating results compared to market expectations;. • our raising or failure to raise additional capital;. • the risk of our inability to continue to meet listing requirements of the NASDAQ;. • developments in relationships with licensees;. • our or our competitors' technological innovations;. • announcements of developments in our patent enforcement actions. • our failure to meet or exceed securities analysts' expectations of our financial results;. • a change in financial estimates or securities analysts' recommendations;. • changes in management's or securities analysts' estimates of our financial performance;. • changes in market valuations of similar companies;. • regulatory developments and court decisions that negatively impact the ability of patent owners to protect their assets.. • actual or expected sales of our common stock by our stockholders, including any of our significant stockholders.. Our common stock may be considered a \"penny stock.\". The SEC has adopted regulations, which generally define \"penny stock\" to be an equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to specific exemptions. The market price of our common stock is less than $5.00 per share and therefore may be a \"penny stock.\" Brokers and dealers effecting transactions in \"penny stock\" must disclose certain information concerning the transaction, obtain a written agreement from the purchaser and determine that the purchaser is reasonably suitable to purchase the securities. These rules may restrict the ability of brokers or dealers to sell our common stock and may affect your ability to sell shares of our common stock in the future.. 22. Table of Contents. Our stockholders may experience significant dilution if future equity offerings are used to fund operations or acquire complementary businesses.. Our authorized capital stock consists of eighty million (80,000,000) shares of common stock and ten million (10,000,000) shares of blank check preferred stock, of which one hundred fifty three thousand (153,000) shares have been designated Series A-1 Preferred Stock. If we engage in capital raising activities in the future as we did in May 2016 and June 2017, including issuances of common stock or securities that are convertible into, or exercisable for, our common stock, to fund the growth of our business, our stockholders could experience significant dilution. In addition, securities issued in connection with future financing activities or potential acquisitions may have rights and preferences senior to the rights and preferences of our common stock. We have adopted an equity incentive plan pursuant to which equity awards may be granted to eligible employees (including our executive officers), directors and consultants, if our board of directors determines that it is in the best interest of the Company and our stockholders to do so. The issuance of shares of our common stock upon the exercise of any such equity awards may result in dilution to our stockholders and adversely affect our earnings.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish, or cease publishing, research or reports about us, our business or our market, or if they change their recommendations regarding our stock adversely, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock may be influenced by whether industry or securities analysts publish research and reports about us, our business, our market or our competitors and if any analysts do publish such reports, what they publish in those reports. We may not obtain analyst coverage in the future. Any analysts that do cover us may make adverse recommendations regarding our stock, adversely change their recommendations from time to time, and/or provide more favorable relative recommendations about our competitors. If any analyst who may cover us in the future were to cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, or if analysts fail to cover us or publish reports about us at all, we could lose, or never gain, visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud and our stock price may be adversely affected.. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our operating results could be harmed. Any system of internal control over financial reporting, regardless of how well designed, operated and evaluated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that its objectives will be met.  We have experienced material weaknesses in the past and we cannot be certain that in the future material weaknesses or significant deficiencies will not exist or otherwise be discovered. Any weaknesses or deficiencies could result in misstatements of our results of operations, restatements of our consolidated financial statements, inability to timely file periodic reports, a decline in our stock price and investor confidence, or other material effects on our business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter and bylaws may prevent or frustrate attempts by stockholders to change the board of directors or current management and could make a third-party acquisition of our company difficult.. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares.  These provisions include the following:. • our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors, without the approval of our stockholders, to establish classes or series of preferred stock with such rights, privileges and preferences as our board determines (i.e., \"blank check\" preferred stock), including rights that may be senior to those of our common stockholders, which could be used to discourage an unsolicited acquisition proposal;. • our certificate of incorporation provides for a classified board of directors with staggered terms, which could delay or otherwise make it more difficult for an outsider to gain control of our board of directors;. • our certificate of incorporation requires supermajority voting to approve certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws;. • our certificate of incorporation prohibits stockholders from acting by written consent or calling a special meeting, which could make it more difficult for stockholders to wage a proxy contest for control of our board of directors or to vote to repeal any of the antitakeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws;. 23. Table of Contents. • our certificate of incorporation provides that directors may only be removed for cause by a supermajority vote of our stockholders; and. • our bylaws contain advance notice provisions with respect to nominees for election to our board of directors.. If we issue shares of preferred stock, investments in common stock could be diluted or subordinated to the rights of the holders of preferred stock.. Our board of directors is authorized by our Certificate of Incorporation to establish classes or series of preferred stock and fix the designation, powers, preferences and rights of the shares of each such class or series without any further vote or action by our stockholders. Any shares of preferred stock so issued could have priority over our common stock with respect to dividend or liquidation rights. For instance, we issued 153,000 shares of Series A-1 Preferred Stock in June 2017.  Under the terms of such Series A-1 Preferred Stock, with respect to payment of dividends and distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company, whether voluntary or involuntary, the shares of the Series A-1 Preferred Stock shall rank senior to all other classes of securities of the Company.  Further, the issuance of shares of preferred stock, or the issuance of rights to purchase such shares, could be used to discourage an unsolicited acquisition proposal. For instance, the issuance of a series of preferred stock might impede a business combination by including class voting rights that would enable a holder to block such a transaction. In addition, under certain circumstances, the issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect the voting power of holders of our common stock. Although our board of directors is required to make any determination to issue preferred stock based on its judgment as to the best interests of our stockholders, our board of directors could act in a manner that would discourage an acquisition attempt or other transaction that some, or a majority, of our stockholders might believe to be in their best interests or in which such stockholders might receive a premium for their stock over the then-market price of such stock. Presently, our board of directors does not intend to seek stockholder approval prior to the issuance of currently authorized preferred stock, unless otherwise required by law or applicable stock exchange rules. Although we have no plans to issue any additional shares of preferred stock or to adopt any new series, preferences or other classification of preferred stock, any such action by our board of directors or issuance of preferred stock by us could dilute your investment in our common stock and warrants or subordinate your holdings to such shares of preferred stock."
