[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. Ownership of our common stock involves a significant degree of risk and uncertainty. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect us are described below. Any of the following risks, as well as risks that we do not know or currently deem immaterial, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. To the extent that any of the information in this Form 10-K constitutes forward - looking statements, the risk factors below are cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward - looking statements made by us or on our behalf. See \"Item 7.. 18. Table of Contents. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Cautionary Note Regarding Forward - Looking Statements.\". Risks Related to Our Business. Geographic concentration in our existing markets may unfavorably impact our operations.. A substantial majority of our business is with customers located within Hawaii. Our operations are heavily concentrated in Hawaii, Guam and Saipan with the exception of our auto dealer flooring and certain other limited lending services outside Hawaii, Guam and Saipan, which services represent 21% of our total loan and lease portfolio as of December 31, 2017. As a result of this geographic concentration, our results depend largely on economic conditions in these and surrounding areas. As discussed below, deterioration in economic conditions in Hawaii, Guam and Saipan would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our business may be adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally and in Hawaii, Guam and Saipan in particular.. We provide banking and financial services to customers primarily in Hawaii, Guam and Saipan. Our financial performance generally, and the ability of our borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans in particular, as well as demand for loans and other products and services we offer, is highly dependent upon the business environment in the markets in which we operate. Economic conditions in our markets depend mainly on tourism, U.S. military and defense products and services, real estate, government and other service - based industries. Declines in tourism, fluctuations in the strength of currencies such as the U.S. dollar and the Japanese yen, the inability of the Hawaii economy to absorb continuing construction expansion, continued higher levels of underemployment compared to pre - recession levels, increases in energy costs, the availability of affordable air transportation, real or threatened acts of war or terrorism, adverse weather, pandemics, natural disasters and local budget issues, among other factors, may impact consumer and corporate spending. As a result, these events may contribute to a deterioration in Hawaii's general economic condition, which, as a result of our geographic concentration, could adversely impact us and our borrowers.. Commercial lending represents approximately 54% of our total loan and lease portfolio as of December 31, 2017, and we generally make loans to small to mid - sized businesses whose success depends on the regional economy. These businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities and may expose us to greater credit risks. We also engage in mortgage lending and automobile financing, as well as other forms of consumer lending. Adverse economic and business conditions in our market areas could reduce our growth rate, affect our borrowers' ability to repay their loans and, consequently, adversely affect our financial condition and performance.. The U.S. military has a major presence in Hawaii and Guam and, as a result, is an important aspect of the economies in which we operate. The funding of the U.S. military occurs as part of the overall U.S. government budget and appropriation process which is driven by numerous factors, including geo - political events, macroeconomic conditions and the ability of the U.S. government to enact legislation such as appropriations bills. There have been lower levels of federal government expenditures in Hawaii since the budget sequestration took effect in March 2013. Further cuts in defense and other security spending could have an adverse impact on the economy in our markets. While the new U.S. administration appears to favor an increase in military spending, it remains unclear whether any increase would match or exceed pre-sequester funding levels.. Other economic conditions that affect our financial performance include short - term and long - term interest rates, the prevailing yield curve, inflation and price levels (particularly for real estate), monetary policy, unemployment and the strength of the domestic economy as a whole. Unfavorable market conditions can result in a deterioration in the credit quality of our borrowers and the demand for our products and services, an increase in the number of loan delinquencies, defaults and charge - offs, additional provisions for loan losses, adverse asset values and an overall material adverse effect on the quality of our loan portfolio. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or business confidence, limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital, increases in inflation or interest rates, high unemployment, natural disasters or a combination of these or other factors.. 19. Table of Contents. Our business is significantly dependent on the real estate markets in which we operate, as a significant percentage of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate.. As of December 31, 2017, our real estate loans represented approximately $7.4 billion, or 60% of our total loan and lease portfolio. Our real estate loans consist primarily of commercial and construction loans (representing 27% of our total loan and lease portfolio) and residential loans including home equity loans (representing 33% of our total loan and lease portfolio), with the significant majority of these loans concentrated in Hawaii. Real property values in Hawaii may be affected by a variety of factors outside of our control and the control of our borrowers, including national and local economic conditions generally. Declines in real property prices, including prices for homes and commercial properties, in Hawaii, Guam or Saipan could result in a deterioration of the credit quality of our borrowers, an increase in the number of loan delinquencies, defaults and charge - offs, and reduced demand for our products and services generally. Our commercial real estate loans may have a greater risk of loss than residential mortgage loans, in part because these loans are generally larger or more complex to underwrite and are characterized by having a limited supply of real estate at commercially attractive locations, long delivery time frames for development and high interest rate sensitivity. In addition, nearly all residential mortgage loans and home equity lines of credit and loans outstanding are for residences located in Hawaii, Guam or Saipan. These island locales are susceptible to a wide array of potential natural disasters including, but not limited to, hurricanes, floods, tsunamis and earthquakes. Finally, declines in real property values in Hawaii could reduce the value of any collateral we realize following a default on these loans and could adversely affect our ability to continue to grow our loan portfolio consistent with our underwriting standards. Our failure to mitigate these risks effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Concentrated exposures to certain asset classes and individual obligors may unfavorably impact our operations.. We have naturally developed concentrated exposures to those asset classes and industries in which we have specific knowledge or competency, such as commercial real estate lending and dealer financing, which represented 22% and 7% of our total lending commitments, respectively, as of December 31, 2017. In management's judgment, our extensive experience within these concentration areas, and our strategic relationships within such areas, allows us to better evaluate the associated risks and price credit accordingly. However, the presence of similar exposures concentrated in certain asset classes leaves us exposed to the risk of a focused downturn within a concentration area. Additionally, we have cultivated relationships with market leaders that result in relatively larger exposures to select single obligors than would be typical for an institution of our size in a larger operating market. For example, our top five dealer relationships represented approximately 36% of our outstanding dealer flooring commitments as of December 31, 2017. The failure to properly anticipate and address risks associated with these concentrated exposures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our business is subject to interest rate risk and fluctuations in interest rates may adversely affect our earnings.. Fluctuations in interest rates may negatively impact our banking business and may weaken demand for some of our products. Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent on net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income we receive from interest - earning assets (e.g., loans and investment securities) and the interest expense we pay on interest - bearing liabilities (e.g., deposits and borrowings). The level of net interest income is primarily a function of the average balance of interest - earning assets, the average balance of interest - bearing liabilities and the spread between the yield on such assets and the cost of such liabilities. These factors are influenced by both the pricing and mix of interest - earning assets and interest - bearing liabilities. Interest rates are volatile and highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, such as economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, and, in particular the monetary policy of the Federal Open Market Committee of the Federal Reserve System (the \"FOMC\"). In recent years, it has been the policy of the FOMC and the U.S. Treasury Department to maintain interest rates at historically low levels through a targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of U.S. Treasury and mortgage - backed securities. As a result, yields on securities we have purchased, and market rates on the loans we have originated, have been at levels lower than were available prior to 2008. Consequently, the average yield on our interest - earning assets has decreased during the current low interest rate environment. If a low interest rate environment persists, our net interest income may further decrease. This would be the case because our ability to lower our interest expense has been limited at these interest rate levels, while the average yield on our interest - earning assets has continued to decrease.. During 2017, the FOMC raised short-term interest rates by 25 basis points three times and, in December 2017, indicated that it expects to raise interest rates further in 2018. In the event that interest rates continue to increase, if our variable rate interest - earning assets do not reprice faster than our interest - bearing liabilities in a rising rate environment,. 20. Table of Contents. our net interest income could be adversely affected. If our net interest income decreases, this could have an adverse effect on our profitability, including the value of our investments.. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but also our ability to originate loans and deposits. Changes in interest rates also have a significant impact on the carrying value of certain assets, including loans, real estate and investment securities, on our balance sheet. We may incur debt in the future and that debt may also be sensitive to interest rates.. The cost of our deposits is largely based on short - term interest rates, the level of which is driven primarily by the FOMC's actions. However, the yields generated by our loans and securities are often difficult to re - price and are typically driven by longer - term interest rates, which are set by the market or, at times, the FOMC's actions, and vary over time. The level of net interest income is therefore influenced by movements in such interest rates and the pace at which such movements occur. If the interest rates paid on our deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster pace than the interest rates on our loans and other investments, our net interest income may decline and, with it, a decline in our earnings may occur. Our net interest income and earnings would be similarly affected if the interest rates on our interest - earning assets declined at a faster pace than the interest rates on our deposits and other borrowings. Any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Changes in interest rates can also affect the level of loan refinancing activity, which impacts the amount of prepayment penalty income we receive on loans we hold. Because prepayment penalties are recorded as interest income when received, the extent to which they increase or decrease during any given period could have a significant impact on the level of net interest income and net income we generate during that time. A decrease in our prepayment penalty income resulting from any change in interest rates or as a result of regulatory limitations on our ability to charge prepayment penalties could therefore adversely affect our net interest income, net income or results of operations.. Changes in interest rates can also affect the slope of the yield curve. A decline in the current yield curve or a flatter or inverted yield curve could cause our net interest income and net interest margin to contract, which could have a material adverse effect on our net income and cash flows, as well as the value of our assets. An inverted yield curve may also adversely affect the yield on investment securities by increasing the prepayment risk of any securities purchased at a premium.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $6.1 billion of noninterest - bearing demand deposits and $11.5 billion of interest - bearing deposits. Since 2011, depository institutions have not been prohibited from paying interest on demand deposits, such as checking accounts. The impact of the change on us has not been significant because of current market conditions, which have resulted in very low interest rates for checking accounts. If market conditions were to change, including as a result of monetary policy or the competitive environment, and we need to offer higher interest rates on checking accounts to maintain current clients or attract new clients, our interest expense will increase, perhaps materially. Furthermore, if we fail to offer interest in a sufficient amount to keep these demand deposits, our core deposits may be reduced, which would require us to obtain funding in other ways or risk slowing our future asset growth.. Our business, profitability and liquidity may be adversely affected by deterioration in the credit quality of, or defaults by, third parties who owe us money, securities or other assets or whose securities or obligations we hold.. A number of our products expose us to credit risk. We are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. These parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. A failure of a significant market participant, or even concerns about a default by such an institution, could lead to significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other institutions, which in turn could adversely affect us.. We are also subject to the risk that our rights against third parties may not be enforceable in all circumstances. In addition, deterioration in the credit quality of third parties whose securities or obligations we hold, including a deterioration in the value of collateral posted by third parties to secure their obligations to us under derivatives contracts and loan agreements, could result in losses and/or adversely affect our ability to rehypothecate or otherwise use those securities or obligations for liquidity purposes.. 21. Table of Contents. We might underestimate the credit losses inherent in our loan and lease portfolio and have credit losses in excess of the amount we reserve for loan and lease losses.. Because the credit quality of our loan and lease portfolio can have a significant impact on our earnings, the operation of our business requires us to manage credit risk. As a lender, we are exposed to the risk that our borrowers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms, and that the collateral securing repayment of the loans we extend, if any, may not be sufficient to ensure repayment. In addition, there are risks inherent in making any loan, including risks with respect to the period of time over which the loan may be repaid, risks relating to proper loan underwriting, risks resulting from changes in economic and industry conditions and risks inherent in dealing with individual borrowers, including the risk that a borrower may not provide information to us about its business in a timely manner and/or may present inaccurate or incomplete information to us, and risks relating to the value of collateral.. We maintain an allowance for loan and lease losses (the \"Allowance\"), which is a reserve established through a provision for loan and lease losses (the \"Provision\") charged to expense representing management's best estimate of probable losses that have been incurred within our existing portfolio of loans and leases. The Allowance, in the judgment of management, is necessary to reserve for estimated loan and lease losses and risks inherent in our loan and lease portfolio. The level of the Allowance reflects management's continuing evaluation of specific credit risks, the quality of the loan and lease portfolio, the value of the underlying collateral, the level of non - accruing loans and leases, incurred losses inherent in the current loan and lease portfolio, and economic, political and regulatory conditions.. For our commercial loans, we perform an internal loan review and grade loans on an ongoing basis, and we estimate and establish reserves for credit risks and credit losses inherent in our credit exposure (including unfunded lending commitments). The objective of our loan review and grading procedures is to identify existing or emerging credit quality problems so that appropriate steps can be initiated to avoid or minimize future losses. This process, which is critical to our financial results and condition, requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments of loan collectability. As is the case with any such assessments, there is always the chance that we will fail to identify the proper factors or that we will fail to accurately estimate the impacts of factors that we do identify.. Although our management has established an Allowance it believes is adequate to absorb probable and reasonably estimable losses in our loan and lease portfolio, it may not be adequate. We could sustain credit losses that are significantly higher than the amount of our Allowance. Higher credit losses could arise for a variety of reasons, such as growth in our loan and lease portfolio, changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding our loans and leases and other factors within and outside our control. If real estate values were to decline or if economic conditions in our markets were to deteriorate unexpectedly, additional loan and lease losses not incorporated in the existing Allowance might occur. Losses in excess of the existing Allowance will reduce our net income and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. A severe downturn in the economy generally, in our markets specifically or affecting the business and assets of individual customers would generate increased charge - offs and a need for higher reserves. While we believe that our Allowance for credit losses was adequate as of December 31, 2017, there is no assurance that it will be sufficient to cover all incurred credit losses. In the event of significant deterioration in economic conditions, we may be required to increase reserves in future periods, which would reduce our earnings.. In addition, bank regulatory agencies will periodically review our Allowance and the value attributed to non - accrual loans and leases or to real estate we acquire through foreclosure. Such regulatory agencies may require us to adjust our determination of the value for these items, increase our Allowance or reduce the carrying value of owned real estate, reducing our net income. Further, if charge - offs in future periods exceed the Allowance, we may need additional adjustments to increase the Allowance. These adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our ability to maintain, attract and retain customer relationships is highly dependent on our reputation.. As the parent company of Hawaii's oldest and largest bank, we rely in part on the reputation of our bank for superior financial services to retain our customer relationships. Damage to our reputation could undermine the confidence of our current and potential customers in our ability to provide high - quality financial services. Such damage could also impair the confidence of our counterparties and vendors and ultimately affect our ability to effect transactions. Maintenance of our reputation depends not only on our success in maintaining our service - focused culture and controlling and mitigating the various risks described in this Form 10-K, but also on our success in identifying and appropriately addressing issues that may arise in areas such as potential conflicts of interest, anti - money laundering, customer personal. 22. Table of Contents. information and privacy issues, customer and other third party fraud, record - keeping, regulatory investigations and any litigation that may arise from the failure or perceived failure of us to comply with legal and regulatory requirements. Maintaining our reputation also depends on our ability to successfully prevent third parties from infringing on the \"First Hawaiian Bank\" brand and associated trademarks and our other intellectual property. Defense of our reputation, trademarks and other intellectual property, including through litigation, could result in costs that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. The value of the investment securities we own may decline in the future.. As of December 31, 2017, we owned investment securities with a fair market value of $5.2 billion, which largely consisted of our positions in obligations of the U.S. government and government - sponsored enterprises. We evaluate our investment securities on at least a quarterly basis, and more frequently when economic and market conditions warrant such an evaluation, to determine whether any decline in fair value below amortized cost is the result of an other - than - temporary impairment. The process for determining whether impairment is other - than - temporary usually requires complex, subjective judgments about the future financial performance of the issuer in order to assess the probability of receiving all contractual principal and interest payments on the security. Because of changing economic and market conditions affecting issuers, we may be required to recognize other - than - temporary impairment in future periods, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.. Loss of deposits could increase our funding costs.. Like many banking companies, we rely on customer deposits to meet a considerable portion of our funding, and we continue to seek customer deposits to maintain this funding base. We accept deposits directly from consumer and commercial customers and, as of December 31, 2017, we had $17.6 billion in deposits. Although we hold the largest share of the deposit market in Hawaii, these deposits are subject to potentially dramatic fluctuations in availability or price due to certain factors outside our control, such as a loss of confidence by customers in us or the banking sector generally, customer perceptions of our financial health and general reputation, increasing competitive pressures from other financial services firms for consumer or corporate customer deposits, changes in interest rates and returns on other investment classes, which could result in significant outflows of deposits within short periods of time or significant changes in pricing necessary to maintain current customer deposits or attract additional deposits.. Our liquidity is dependent on dividends from First Hawaiian Bank.. We are a legal entity separate and distinct from our banking and other subsidiaries. Dividends from the Bank provide virtually all of our cash flow, including cash flow to pay dividends on our common stock and principal and interest on any debt we may incur. Various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that our bank may pay to us. For example, Hawaii law only permits our bank to pay dividends out of retained earnings as defined under Hawaii banking law, which differs from retained earnings calculated under GAAP. Also, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary's liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors. In the event our bank is unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to service any debt we may incur, pay obligations or pay dividends on our common stock. The inability to receive dividends from our bank could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity or results of operations.. Severe weather, hurricanes, tsunamis, natural disasters, pandemics, acts of war or terrorism or other external events could significantly impact our business.. Severe weather, hurricanes, tsunamis, natural disasters, widespread disease or pandemics, acts of war or terrorism or other adverse external events could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct business. In addition, such events could affect the stability of our deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue or cause us to incur additional expenses. Because Hawaii's economy is heavily dependent on the tourism industry, which is in turn heavily influenced by the affordability and desirability of air travel and the prevailing weather patterns in the region, we could be disproportionally affected relative to others in the case of external events such as acts of war or terrorism, severe weather, natural disasters or pandemics. The occurrence of any of these events in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 23. Table of Contents. We own the building in Honolulu in which our principal office and headquarters are located. The building is the tallest building in downtown Honolulu and a prominent architectural landmark. We lease space in the building to a number of other businesses and, for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, the leases in our headquarters generated $2.7 million, or approximately 1.5%, and $3.3 million, or approximately 1.5%, of our net income, respectively. In addition, as of December 31, 2017, over 600, or a quarter of our employees work in our principal office. Given that we derive a portion of our income from leasing space in our principal office building and that the largest concentration of our employees is located in our principal office building, depending on the intensity and longevity of the event, a catastrophic event impacting our Honolulu office building, including a terrorist attack, extreme weather event or other hostile or catastrophic event, could negatively affect our business and reputation. In addition to the impact this would have on our ability to service and interact with our clients, we may also lose the rental income we derive from tenants that occupy our Honolulu office building. Further, the value of our Honolulu office building, which accounted for approximately 44.2% of the net book value of our total premises and equipment, or $127.8 million, as of December 31, 2017, could significantly depreciate if such a catastrophic event were to occur. A significant event impacting our principal office building could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We may not be able to maintain consistent growth, earnings or profitability.. Although the Bank has experienced five consecutive years of economic expansion, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to grow and to remain profitable in future periods, or, if profitable, that our overall earnings will remain consistent or increase in the future. Sustainable growth requires that we manage our risks by following prudent loan underwriting standards, balancing loan and deposit growth without increasing interest rate risk or compressing our net interest margin, maintaining more than adequate capital at all times, hiring and retaining qualified employees and successfully implementing strategic projects and initiatives. Our earnings may also be reduced by increased expenses associated with increased assets, such as additional employee compensation expense, and increased interest expense on any liabilities incurred or deposits solicited to fund increases in assets.. Continued, long - term growth may be unsustainable, given the concentration of our operations and customer base in Hawaii, Guam and Saipan. Moreover, under applicable laws, we may not be permitted to acquire any bank in Hawaii because we control more than 30% of the total amount of deposits in the Hawaii market. As a result, any further growth in the Hawaii market will most likely have to occur organically rather than by acquisition. Our inability to manage our growth successfully or to continue to expand into new markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We may not be able to attract and retain key personnel and other skilled employees.. Our success depends, in large part, on the skills of our management team and our ability to retain, recruit and motivate key officers and employees. Competition for qualified employees and personnel in the banking industry is intense and there are a limited number of qualified persons with knowledge of, and experience in, the regional banking industry, especially in the communities served by our branch network. A substantial number of our employees have considerable tenure with the Bank and some will be nearing retirement in the next few years, which makes succession planning important to the continued operation of our business. We need to continue to attract and retain key personnel and to recruit qualified individuals to succeed existing key personnel to ensure the continued growth and successful operation of our business. Leadership changes will occur from time to time, and we cannot predict whether significant retirements or resignations will occur or whether we will be able to recruit additional qualified personnel. Competition for senior executives and skilled personnel in the financial services and banking industry is intense, which means the cost of hiring, incentivizing and retaining skilled personnel may continue to increase, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, our ability to effectively compete for senior executives and other qualified personnel by offering competitive compensation and benefit arrangements may be restricted by applicable banking laws and regulations, including compensation restrictions applicable to us while we are a controlled subsidiary of BNPP and any restrictions that may in the future be adopted by U.S. regulatory agencies, including the Federal Reserve and FDIC. The loss of the services of any senior executive or other key personnel, the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future or the failure to develop and implement a viable succession plan, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 24. Table of Contents. We operate in a highly competitive industry and market area.. We operate in the highly competitive financial services industry and face significant competition for customers from financial institutions located both within and beyond our principal markets. We compete with commercial banks, savings banks, credit unions, non - bank financial services companies and other financial institutions operating within or near the areas we serve. Additionally, certain large banks headquartered on the U.S. mainland and large community banking institutions target the same customers we do. In addition, as customer preferences and expectations continue to evolve, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for banks to expand their geographic reach by providing services over the Internet and for non - banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems. The banking industry is experiencing rapid changes in technology, and, as a result, our future success will depend in part on our ability to address our customers' needs by using technology. Customer loyalty can be influenced by a competitor's new products, especially offerings that could provide cost savings or a higher return to the customer. Increased lending activity of competing banks following the Great Recession (which we define as January 1, 2008 through December 31, 2009) has also led to increased competitive pressures on loan rates and terms for high - quality credits. We may not be able to compete successfully with other financial institutions in our markets, and we may have to pay higher interest rates to attract deposits, accept lower yields to attract loans and pay higher wages for new employees, resulting in lower net interest margins and reduced profitability.. Many of our non - bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern our activities and may have greater flexibility in competing for business. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. In addition, some of our current commercial banking customers may seek alternative banking sources as they develop needs for credit facilities larger than we may be able to accommodate. Our inability to compete successfully in the markets in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. New lines of business, products, product enhancements or services may subject us to additional risks.. From time to time, we may implement new lines of business or offer new products and product enhancements as well as new services within our existing lines of business. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. In implementing, developing or marketing new lines of business, products, product enhancements or services, we may invest significant time and resources, although we may not assign the appropriate level of resources or expertise necessary to make these new lines of business, products, product enhancements or services successful or to realize their expected benefits. Further, initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business, products, product enhancements or services may not be achieved, and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives and shifting market preferences, may also impact the ultimate implementation of a new line of business or offerings of new products, product enhancements or services. Furthermore, any new line of business, product, product enhancement or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of our system of internal controls. Additionally, until BNPP ceases to directly or indirectly beneficially own at least 25% of our outstanding common stock, any material change to the scope of our business must also be approved by a majority of our directors designated for nomination and election by BNPP pursuant to the Stockholder Agreement we entered into with BNPP in connection with our IPO, and BNPP - designated directors may not approve changes to the scope of our business even though other directors believe such changes may be beneficial to us or our other stockholders. See \" -  Risks Related to Our Controlling Stockholder.\" Failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business or offerings of new products, product enhancements or services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. If our techniques for managing risk are ineffective, we may be exposed to material unanticipated losses.. In order to manage the significant risks inherent in our business, we must maintain effective policies, procedures and systems that enable us to identify, monitor and control our exposure to material risks, such as credit, operational, legal and reputational risks. Our risk management methods may prove to be ineffective due to their design, their implementation or the degree to which we adhere to them, or as a result of the lack of adequate, accurate or timely information or otherwise. If our risk management efforts are ineffective, we could suffer losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, we could be subject to litigation, particularly from our customers, and sanctions or fines from regulators. Our techniques for managing the risks we face may not fully mitigate. 25. Table of Contents. the risk exposure in all economic or market environments, including exposure to risks that we might fail to identify or anticipate.. We are dependent on the use of data and modeling both in our management decision - making generally and in meeting regulatory expectations in particular.. The use of statistical and quantitative models and other quantitatively - based analyses is endemic to bank decision - making and regulatory compliance processes, and the employment of such analyses is becoming increasingly widespread in our operations. Liquidity stress testing, interest rate sensitivity analysis, the automated extension of credit based on defined criteria and the identification of possible violations of anti - money laundering regulations are all examples of areas in which we are dependent on models and the data that underlies them. Our DFAST and BNP Paribas USA's CCAR submissions also create significate dependencies on data and modeling. We anticipate that model - derived insights will penetrate further into bank decision - making, and particularly risk management efforts, as the capacities developed to meet rigorous stress testing requirements are able to be employed more widely. While these quantitative techniques and approaches improve our decision - making, they also create the possibility that faulty data or flawed quantitative approaches could yield adverse outcomes or regulatory scrutiny. Secondarily, because of the complexity inherent in these approaches, misunderstanding or misuse of their outputs could similarly result in suboptimal decision - making.. We entered into a License Agreement with BWHI, BancWest and BOW in connection with our IPO with respect to (1) models, data and related documentation for CCAR and DFAST purposes (the \"Models\"), (2) processes and coding for use in connection with the implementation of, and compliance with, the reporting requirements of BNP Paribas USA and BWC (the \"Reporting Processes\"), and (3) technology relating to core banking, payment processing and the wire transfer platform in connection with the provision of services covered by the Transitional Services Agreement (\"Services Technology\") that has been developed and will continue to be developed up to the applicable dates specified in the License Agreement. Under the License Agreement, each party has granted each other party a perpetual, non - exclusive license to its rights in the Models, Reporting Processes and Services Technology, subject to obtaining any necessary third-party rights to intellectual property, data, models, materials and information included or incorporated in or with any Model, Reporting Process or Services Technology.. The occurrence of fraudulent activity, breaches or failures of our information security controls or cybersecurity - related incidents could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. As a financial institution, we are susceptible to fraudulent activity, information security breaches and cybersecurity - related incidents that may be committed against us or our clients, which may result in financial losses or increased costs to us or our clients, disclosure or misuse of our information or our client information, misappropriation of assets, privacy breaches against our clients, litigation or damage to our reputation. Such fraudulent activity may take many forms, including check fraud, electronic fraud, wire fraud, phishing, social engineering and other dishonest acts. Information security breaches and cybersecurity - related incidents may include fraudulent or unauthorized access to systems used by us or our clients, denial or degradation of service attacks, and malware or other cyber - attacks. In recent periods, there continues to be a rise in electronic fraudulent activity, security breaches and cyber - attacks within the financial services industry, especially in the commercial banking sector due to cyber criminals targeting commercial bank accounts. Consistent with industry trends, we have also experienced an increase in attempted electronic fraudulent activity, security breaches and cybersecurity - related incidents in recent periods. Moreover, in recent periods, several large corporations, including financial institutions and retail companies, have suffered major data breaches, in some cases exposing not only confidential and proprietary corporate information, but also sensitive financial and other personal information of their customers and employees and subjecting them to potential fraudulent activity. Some of our clients may have been affected by these breaches, which increase their risks of identity theft, credit card fraud and other fraudulent activity that could involve their accounts with us.. We also face risks related to cyber - attacks and other security breaches in connection with credit card transactions that typically involve the transmission of sensitive information regarding our customers through various third parties, including merchant acquiring banks, payment processors, payment card networks and our processors. Some of these parties have in the past been the target of security breaches and cyber - attacks, and because the transactions involve third parties and environments such as the point of sale that we do not control or secure, future security breaches or cyber - attacks affecting any of these third parties could impact us through no fault of our own, and in some cases we may have exposure and suffer losses for breaches or attacks relating to them.. 26. Table of Contents. Information pertaining to us and our customers is maintained, and transactions are executed, on networks and systems maintained by us, our customers and certain of our third party partners, such as our online banking or reporting systems. The secure maintenance and transmission of confidential information, as well as execution of transactions over these systems, are essential to protect us and our customers against fraud and security breaches and to maintain our customers' confidence. Breaches of information security also may occur, and in infrequent cases have occurred, through intentional or unintentional acts by those having access to our systems or our customers' or counterparties' confidential information, including employees. In addition, increases in criminal activity levels and sophistication, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries, vulnerabilities in third-party technologies (including browsers and operating systems) or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the technology, processes and controls that we use to prevent fraudulent transactions and to protect data about us, our customers and underlying transactions, as well as the technology used by our customers to access our systems. Although we have developed, and continue to invest in, systems and processes that are designed to detect and prevent security breaches and cyber - attacks and periodically test our security, our inability to anticipate, or failure to adequately mitigate, breaches of security could result in: losses to us or our customers; our loss of business and/or customers; damage to our reputation; the incurrence of additional expenses; disruption to our business; our inability to grow our online services or other businesses; additional regulatory scrutiny or penalties; or our exposure to civil litigation and possible financial liability  -  any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Additionally, we may not be able to ensure that our third party vendors have appropriate controls in place to protect the confidentiality of the information they receive from us and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected by a material breach of, or disruption to, the security of any of our or our vendors' systems.. More generally, publicized information concerning security and cyber - related problems could inhibit the use or growth of electronic or web - based applications or solutions as a means of conducting commercial transactions. Such publicity may also cause damage to our reputation as a financial institution. As a result, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected.. Employee misconduct or mistakes could expose us to significant legal liability and reputational harm.. We are vulnerable to reputational harm because we operate in an industry in which integrity and the confidence of our customers are of critical importance. Our employees could engage in misconduct that adversely affects our business. For example, if an employee were to engage in fraudulent, illegal or suspicious activities, we could be subject to regulatory sanctions and suffer serious harm to our reputation (as a consequence of the negative perception resulting from such activities), financial position, customer relationships and ability to attract new customers. Our business often requires that we deal with confidential information. If our employees were to improperly use or disclose this information, even if inadvertently, we could suffer serious harm to our reputation, financial position and current and future business relationships. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not always be effective. Misconduct by our employees, or even unsubstantiated allegations of misconduct, could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, employee errors, such as inadvertent use or disclosure of confidential information, calculation errors, mistakes in addressing communications or data inputs, errors in developing, implementing or applying information technology systems or simple errors in judgment, could also have similar adverse effects.. We continually encounter technological change.. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new, technology - driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Certain of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements than we do. We may not be able to effectively implement new, technology - driven products and services or implement them as quickly as our competitors do or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. In addition, the implementation of technological changes and upgrades to maintain current systems and integrate new ones may also cause service interruptions, transaction processing errors and system conversion delays and may cause us to fail to comply with applicable laws. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry and failure to avoid interruptions, errors and delays could cause us to lose customers or have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 27. Table of Contents. We expect that new technologies and business processes applicable to the consumer credit industry will continue to emerge, and these new technologies and business processes may be better than those we currently use. Because the pace of technological change is high and our industry is intensely competitive, we may not be able to sustain our investment in new technology as critical systems and applications become obsolete or as better ones become available. A failure to maintain current technology and business processes could cause disruptions in our operations or cause our products and services to be less competitive, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We may be adversely affected by changes in the actual or perceived soundness or condition of other financial institutions.. Financial services institutions that deal with each other are interconnected as a result of trading, investment, liquidity management, clearing, counterparty and other relationships. Within the financial services industry, loss of public confidence, including through default by any one institution, could lead to liquidity challenges or to defaults by other institutions. Concerns about, or a default by, one institution could lead to significant liquidity problems and losses or defaults by other institutions, as the commercial and financial soundness of many financial institutions is closely related as a result of these credit, trading, clearing and other relationships. Even the perceived lack of creditworthiness of, or questions about, a counterparty may lead to market - wide liquidity problems and losses or defaults by various institutions. This systemic risk may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, banks and exchanges with which we interact on a daily basis or key funding providers such as the Federal Home Loan Banks, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our access to liquidity or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We may need to raise additional capital in the future, and such capital may not be available when needed or at all.. We may need to raise additional capital, in the form of additional debt or equity, in the future to have sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and fund our business needs and future growth, particularly if the quality of our assets or earnings were to deteriorate significantly. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on, among other things, conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and our financial condition. Economic conditions and a loss of confidence in financial institutions may increase our cost of funding and limit access to certain customary sources of capital, including inter - bank borrowings, repurchase agreements and borrowings from the discount window of the Federal Reserve System. We may not be able to obtain capital on acceptable terms  -  or at all. Any occurrence that may limit our access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of debt purchasers, depositors of our bank or counterparties participating in the capital markets or other disruption in capital markets, may adversely affect our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and, in turn, our liquidity. Further, if we need to raise capital in the future, we may have to do so when many other financial institutions are also seeking to raise capital and would then have to compete with those institutions for investors. An inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms when needed could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We may rely on the mortgage secondary market for some of our liquidity.. We may originate and sell mortgage loans. Loans sold on the secondary market represented $2.0 million and $0.3 million of mortgage loans for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. We rely on Federal National Mortgage Association (\"Fannie Mae\"), Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (\"Freddie Mac\") and other purchasers to purchase loans in order to reduce our credit risk and provide funding for additional loans we desire to originate. We cannot provide assurance that these purchasers will not materially limit their purchases from us due to capital constraints or other factors, including, with respect to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, a change in the criteria for conforming loans. In addition, various proposals have been made to reform the U.S. residential mortgage finance market, including the role of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. The exact effects of any such reforms are not yet known, but may limit our ability to sell conforming loans to Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. In addition, mortgage lending is highly regulated, and our inability to comply with all federal and state regulations and investor guidelines regarding the origination, underwriting documentation and servicing of mortgage loans may also impact our ability to continue selling mortgage loans. If we are unable to continue to sell loans in the secondary market, our ability to fund, and thus originate, additional mortgage loans may be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 28. Table of Contents. Consumer protection initiatives related to the foreclosure process could materially affect our ability as a creditor to obtain remedies.. In 2011, Hawaii revised its rules for nonjudicial, or out - of - court, foreclosures. Prior to the revision, most lenders used the nonjudicial foreclosure method to handle foreclosures in Hawaii, as the process was less expensive and quicker than going through the court foreclosure process. After the revised rules went into effect, many lenders ended up forgoing nonjudicial foreclosures entirely and filing all foreclosures in court, which has created a backlog and slowed the judicial foreclosure process. Many lenders continue to exclusively use the judicial foreclosure process, making the foreclosure process very lengthy. Additionally, the joint federal - state settlement with several mortgage servicers over abuse of foreclosure practices creates further uncertainty for us and the mortgage servicing industry in general with respect to implementation of mortgage loan modifications and loss mitigation practices going forward. The manner in which these issues are ultimately resolved could impact our foreclosure procedures, which in turn could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operation.. We are subject to a variety of risks in connection with any sale of loans we may conduct.. When we sell mortgage loans we are required to make customary representations and warranties to the purchaser about the mortgage loans and the manner in which they were originated and serviced. If any of these representations and warranties are incorrect, we may be required to indemnify the purchaser for any related losses, or we may be required to repurchase or provide substitute mortgage loans for part or all of the affected loans. We may also be required to repurchase loans as a result of borrower fraud or in the event of early payment default by the borrower on a loan we have sold. If the level of repurchase and indemnity activity becomes material, it could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, business, financial condition or results of operations. Mortgage lending is highly regulated. Our inability to comply with all federal and state regulations and investor guidelines regarding the origination, underwriting documentation and servicing of mortgage loans may impact our ability to sell mortgage loans in the future.. In addition, we must report as held for sale any loans which we have undertaken to sell, whether or not a purchase agreement for the loans has been executed. We may therefore be unable to ultimately complete a sale for part or all of the loans we classify as held for sale. We must exercise our judgment in determining when loans must be reclassified from held for investment status to held for sale status under applicable accounting guidelines. Any failure to accurately report loans as held for sale could result in regulatory investigations and monetary penalties. Any of these actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our policy is to carry loans held for sale at the lower of cost or fair value. As a result, prior to being sold, any loans classified as held for sale may be adversely affected by market conditions, including changes in interest rates, and by changes in the borrower's creditworthiness, and the value associated with these loans, including any loans originated for sale in the secondary market, may decline prior to being sold. We may be required to reduce the value of any loans we mark held for sale as a result, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. The appraisals and other valuation techniques we use in evaluating and monitoring loans secured by real property, other real estate owned (\"OREO\") and repossessed personal property may not accurately describe the net value of the asset.. In considering whether to make a loan secured by real property, we generally require an appraisal of the property. However, an appraisal is only an estimate of the value of the property at the time the appraisal is made, and, as real estate values may change significantly in value in relatively short periods of time (especially in periods of heightened economic uncertainty), this estimate may not accurately describe the net value of the real property collateral after the loan is made. As a result, we may not be able to realize the full amount of any remaining indebtedness when we foreclose on and sell the relevant property. In addition, we rely on appraisals and other valuation techniques to establish the value of our OREO and personal property that we acquire through foreclosure proceedings and to determine certain loan impairments. If any of these valuations are inaccurate, our consolidated financial statements may not reflect the correct value of our OREO, and our Allowance for loan losses may not reflect accurate loan impairments. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 29. Table of Contents. Our operations could be interrupted if certain external vendors on which we rely experience difficulty, terminate their services or fail to comply with banking laws and regulations.. We depend to a significant extent on relationships with third party service providers that provide services, primarily information technology services, that are critical to our operations. We utilize third party core banking services and receive credit card and debit card services, Internet banking services, various information services and services complementary to our banking products from various third party service providers. We are also exposed to the risk that a cyber-attack, security breach or other information technology incident at a common vendor to our third-party service providers could impede their ability to provide services to us. We may not be able to effectively monitor or mitigate operational risks relating to the use of common vendors by third-party service providers. If any of our third party service providers experience difficulties or terminate their services and we are unable to replace our service providers with other service providers, our operations could be interrupted. It may be difficult for us to replace some of our third party vendors, particularly vendors providing our core banking, credit card and debit card services and information services, in a timely manner if they are unwilling or unable to provide us with these services in the future for any reason. If an interruption were to continue for a significant period of time, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Even if we are able to replace them, it may be at higher cost to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, if a third party provider fails to provide the services we require, fails to meet contractual requirements, such as compliance with applicable laws and regulations, or suffers a cyber - attack or other security breach, our business could suffer economic and reputational harm that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties.. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, and in evaluating and monitoring our loan portfolio on an ongoing basis, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports and other financial information. We may also rely on representations of those customers or counterparties or of other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. Reliance on inaccurate, incomplete, fraudulent or misleading financial statements, credit reports or other financial or business information, or the failure to receive such information on a timely basis, could result in loan losses, reputational damage or other effects that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Downgrades to the credit rating of the U.S. government or of its securities or any of its agencies by one or more of the credit ratings agencies could have a material adverse effect on general economic conditions, as well as our business.. Downgrades of the U.S. federal government's sovereign credit rating, and the perceived creditworthiness of U.S. government - backed obligations, could impact our ability to obtain funding that is collateralized by affected instruments and our ability to access capital markets on favorable terms. Such downgrades could also affect the pricing of funding, when funding is available. A downgrade of the credit rating of the U.S. government, or of its agencies, government - sponsored enterprises or related institutions, agencies or instrumentalities, may also adversely affect the market value of such instruments and, further, exacerbate the other risks to which we are subject and any related adverse effects on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our accounting estimates and risk management processes and controls rely on analytical and forecasting techniques and models and assumptions, and actual results may differ from these estimates.. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with GAAP and reflect management's judgment of the most appropriate manner to report our financial condition and results. In some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which may be reasonable under the circumstances, yet which may result in our reporting materially different results than would have been reported under a different alternative.. Certain accounting policies are critical to presenting our financial condition and results of operations. They require management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments about matters that are uncertain. Materially different amounts could be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions or estimates. These critical accounting policies include the allowance for loan and lease losses, fair value measurements, pension and postretirement. 30. Table of Contents. benefit obligations and income taxes. Because of the uncertainty of estimates involved in these matters, we may be required to do one or more of the following: significantly increase the allowance for loan losses or sustain loan losses that are significantly higher than the reserve provided; reduce the carrying value of an asset measured at fair value; or significantly increase our accrued tax liability. Any of these could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. See \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies\" for more information.. Our internal controls, disclosure controls, processes and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures are based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable (not absolute) assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls, processes and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls, processes and procedures could necessitate changes in those controls, processes and procedures, which may increase our compliance costs, divert management's attention from our business or subject us to regulatory actions and increased regulatory scrutiny. Any of these could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We are subject to environmental liability risk associated with our bank branches and any real estate collateral we acquire upon foreclosure.. During the ordinary course of business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans that we have originated or acquired. We also have an extensive branch network, owning separate branch locations throughout the areas we serve. For any real property that we may possess, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, we may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage and costs of complying with applicable environmental regulatory requirements. Failure to comply with such requirements can result in penalties. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property's value or limit our ability to use, sell or lease the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We may be subject to claims and litigation pertaining to our fiduciary responsibilities.. Some of the services we provide, such as trust and investment services, require us to act as fiduciaries for our customers and others. From time to time, third parties make claims and take legal action against us pertaining to the performance of our fiduciary responsibilities. If these claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to us, we may be exposed to significant financial liability or our reputation could be damaged. Either of these results may adversely impact demand for our products and services or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial results and condition.. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the \"FASB\") and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. As a result of changes to financial accounting or reporting standards, whether required by the FASB or other regulators, we could be required to change certain of the assumptions or estimates we have previously used in preparing our financial statements, which could negatively impact how we record and report our results of operations and financial condition generally. For a discussion of the expected impact of accounting pronouncements recently issued but not adopted by us as of December 31, 2017, see \"Note 1. Organization and Basis of Presentation  -  Recent Accounting Pronouncements\" to the consolidated financial statements for more information.. 31. Table of Contents. Risks Related to the Regulatory Oversight of Our Business. The banking industry is highly regulated, and the regulatory framework, together with any future legislative or regulatory changes, may have a significant adverse effect on our operations.. The banking industry is extensively regulated and supervised under both federal and state laws and regulations that are intended primarily for the protection of depositors, customers, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not for the protection of our stockholders and creditors. We are subject to regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve and our bank is subject to regulation and supervision by the FDIC, the CFPB and the Hawaii DFI. The laws and regulations applicable to us govern a variety of matters, including permissible types, amounts and terms of loans and investments we may make, the maximum interest rate that may be charged, the amount of reserves we must hold against deposits we take, the types of deposits we may accept, maintenance of adequate capital and liquidity, changes in the control of us and our bank, restrictions on dividends and establishment of new offices. We must obtain approval from our regulators before engaging in certain activities, and there is the risk that such approvals may not be obtained, either in a timely manner or at all. Our regulators also have the ability to compel us to take, or restrict us from taking, certain actions entirely, such as actions that our regulators deem to constitute an unsafe or unsound banking practice. Our failure to comply with any applicable laws or regulations, or regulatory policies and interpretations of such laws and regulations, could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties or damage to our reputation, all of which could have a material adverse effect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Since the Great Recession, federal and state banking laws and regulations, as well as interpretations and implementations of these laws and regulations, have undergone substantial review and change. Financial institutions generally have also been subjected to increased scrutiny from regulatory authorities. These changes and increased scrutiny have resulted and may continue to result in increased costs of doing business and may in the future result in decreased revenues and net income, reduce our ability to effectively compete to attract and retain customers, or make it less attractive for us to continue providing certain products and services. Recent political developments, including the new presidential administration in the United States, have added additional uncertainty to the implementation, scope and timing of changes in regulatory policy. Any future changes in federal and state law and regulations, as well as the interpretations and implementations, or modifications or repeals, of such laws and regulations, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways, including those listed above or other ways that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We are required to act as a source of financial and managerial strength for our bank in times of stress.. Under federal law, we are required to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to our bank, and to commit resources to support our bank if necessary. We may be required to commit additional resources to our bank at times when we may not be in a financial position to provide such resources or when it may not be in our, or our stockholders' or our creditors' best interests to do so. Providing such support is more likely during times of financial stress for us and our bank, which may make any capital we are required to raise to provide such support more expensive than it might otherwise be. In addition, any capital loans we make to our bank are subordinate in right of payment to depositors and to certain other indebtedness of our bank. In the event of our bankruptcy, any commitment by us to a federal banking regulator to maintain the capital of our bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to priority of payment. See \"Item 1. Business - Supervision and Regulation  -  Liability of Commonly Controlled Institutions\" for more information on our cross-guarantee liability.. We are subject to capital adequacy requirements and may be subject to more stringent capital requirements.. We are subject to regulatory requirements relating to capital and liquidity, which are subject to change from time to time. If we fail to meet applicable requirements, we may be restricted in the types of activities we may conduct, and we may be prohibited from taking certain capital actions, such as paying dividends and repurchasing capital securities. See \"Item 1. Business  -  Supervision and Regulation - Regulatory Capital Requirements\" for more information.. We are an indirect subsidiary of BNP Paribas USA, BNPP's U.S. intermediate holding company established pursuant to the Federal Reserve's Regulation YY. Until BNPP's ownership and control of us for U.S. bank regulatory purposes falls to a level at which we are considered a top - tier U.S. bank holding company (i.e., the U.S. bank holding company that is the highest bank holding company in any organizational structure) by the Federal Reserve for capital and regulatory reporting purposes, the Basel III capital rules may not directly apply to us on a stand - alone basis but rather. 32. Table of Contents. apply to BNPP's U.S. intermediate holding company on a consolidated basis, including the Company as part of that consolidated group, as BNPP's top - tier U.S. bank holding company. Nonetheless, we intend to monitor and manage the capital adequacy of the Company in a manner that would result in the Company satisfying the capital requirements described herein and as applicable to a top - tier U.S. bank holding company on a stand - alone basis. We expect to become directly subject to these regulatory capital requirements on a stand - alone basis in the future following the time at which BNPP's ownership and control of us for U.S. bank regulatory purposes falls to a level at which we are considered a top - tier bank holding company by the Federal Reserve for capital and regulatory reporting purposes.. As an indirect subsidiary of BNPP, we will remain subject to the Federal Reserve's CCAR and capital plan requirements until BNPP's ownership and control of us for U.S. bank regulatory purposes falls to a level at which we are no longer required to be included in the CCAR review and any capital plan of the other U.S. entities of BNPP. See \" -  Risks Related to Our Controlling Stockholder  -  We continue to be subject to regulation and supervision as a subsidiary of BNPP\". The stress testing requirements may have the effect of requiring us to comply with the final Basel III capital rule, or potentially even greater capital requirements, sooner than expected.. While we expect to meet the requirements of the new Basel III - based capital rules on a stand - alone basis, we may fail to do so. In addition, these requirements could have a negative impact on our ability to lend, grow deposit balances, make acquisitions or make capital distributions in the form of dividends and share repurchases. Higher capital levels could also lower our return on equity.. Unfavorable results from stress analyses may adversely affect our ability to retain customers or compete for new business opportunities.. The Federal Reserve conducts an annual stress analysis of bank holding companies with average total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, as well as intermediate holding companies established under Regulation YY, to evaluate their ability to absorb losses in three economic and financial scenarios generated by the Federal Reserve, including adverse and severely adverse economic and financial scenarios. The rules also require such companies and their bank subsidiaries with $50 billion or more in total assets to conduct their own semi - annual stress analysis to assess the potential impact of the scenarios used as part of the Federal Reserve's annual stress analysis. A summary of the results of certain aspects of the Federal Reserve's annual stress analysis is released publicly and contains bank holding company specific information and results. The rules also require these companies to disclose publicly a summary of the results of their semi - annual stress analyses, and their bank subsidiaries' annual stress analyses, under the severely adverse scenario.. As discussed in \"Item 1. Business - Supervision and Regulation  -  Enhanced Prudential Standards  -  Stress Testing and Capital Planning (Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review),\" We will remain subject to the annual stress analysis and semi - annual stress analysis indirectly through BNPP's U.S. intermediate holding company until BNPP's ownership and control of us for U.S. bank regulatory purposes falls to a level at which we are no longer required to be included in the stress tests applicable to the other U.S. entities of BNPP.. CCAR is an annual exercise by the Federal Reserve to assess whether large bank holding companies operating and U.S. intermediate holding companies have sufficient capital to continue operations throughout times of economic and financial stress. DFAST is a separate stress testing framework implemented by the federal bank regulators, including the Federal Reserve and the FDIC, to assess whether banking organizations have sufficient capital to absorb losses and support operations during adverse economic conditions. DFAST applies to banking organizations with assets of $10 billion or more, while the CCAR applies to banking organizations with assets of $50 billion or more. Accordingly, even if we are no longer subject to the CCAR process at some point in the future, we will continue to be subject to DFAST.. Our regulators may also require us to raise additional capital or take other actions, or may impose restrictions on our business, based on the results of the stress tests, including rejecting, or requiring revisions to, any annual capital plan submitted in connection with a CCAR process that is applicable to us. See \"Item 1. Business - Supervision and Regulatory  -  Enhanced Prudential Standards  -  Stress Testing and Capital Planning (Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review)\" for a description of the CCAR, including the capital plan requirement.. Although these stress tests are not meant to assess our current condition, our customers may misinterpret and adversely react to the results of these stress tests. Any potential misinterpretations and adverse reactions could limit our ability to attract and retain customers or to effectively compete for new business opportunities. The inability to attract and. 33. Table of Contents. retain customers or effectively compete for new business may have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We may not pay dividends on our common stock in the future.. Holders of our common stock are entitled to receive only such dividends as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Our board of directors may, in its sole discretion, change the amount or frequency of dividends or discontinue the payment of dividends entirely. In addition, we are a bank holding company, and our ability to declare and pay dividends is dependent on certain federal regulatory considerations, including the guidelines of the Federal Reserve regarding capital adequacy and dividends. It is the policy of the Federal Reserve that bank holding companies should generally pay dividends on common stock only out of earnings, and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organization's expected future needs, asset quality and financial condition. Moreover, the Federal Reserve will closely scrutinize any dividend payout ratios exceeding 30% of after - tax net income.. BNP Paribas USA will submit a capital plan on or about April 5, 2018, and dividends and any share repurchases proposed and/or intended to be made by us after the second quarter of 2018 must be included therein if the capital plan requirements applicable to BNPP's other U.S. entities are applicable to us at that time. For any year in which one or more of our parent holding companies is subject to the capital planning requirements, the Federal Reserve must review such capital plan or plans before we can take certain capital actions, including declaring and paying dividends and repurchasing or redeeming capital securities. If the Federal Reserve objects to all or part of a capital plan or any amendment to a capital plan for any reason, our ability to declare and pay dividends on our common stock may be limited. The Federal Reserve's capital plan requirements will remain applicable to us until BNPP's ownership and control of us for U.S. bank regulatory purposes falls to a level at which we are no longer required to be included in any capital plan of the other U.S. entities of BNPP.. While the Federal Reserve did not object to BWC's 2017 capital plan, which includes the payment of a quarterly dividend by us through the second quarter of 2018, there can be no assurance that the Federal Reserve will not object to the payment of dividends by us in connection with any capital plan requirements that are applicable to us in periods following the second quarter of 2018.. Further, if we are unable to satisfy the capital requirements applicable to us for any reason, we may not be able to make, or may have to reduce or eliminate, the payment of dividends on our common stock. Any change in the level of our dividends or the suspension of the payment thereof could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. See \"  -  Risks Related to Our Business  -  Our liquidity is dependent on dividends from First Hawaiian Bank\" for additional information on our reliance on dividends paid to us by the Bank.. Rulemaking changes implemented by the CFPB will result in higher regulatory and compliance costs that may adversely affect our results of operations.. The CFPB is a federal agency responsible for implementing, examining and enforcing compliance with federal consumer financial protection laws. The CFPB also has examination and primary enforcement authority with respect to depository institutions with $10 billion or more in assets, their service providers and certain non - depository entities such as debt collectors and consumer reporting agencies. The consumer protection provisions of the Dodd - Frank Act and the examination, supervision and enforcement of those laws and implementing regulations by the CFPB have created a more intense and complex environment for consumer finance regulation. See \"Item 1. Business - Supervision and Regulation  -  Consumer Financial Protection.\" The ultimate impact of this heightened scrutiny is uncertain but could result in changes to pricing, practices, products and procedures. It could also result in increased costs related to regulatory oversight, supervision and examination, additional remediation efforts and possible penalties. We may also be required to add additional compliance personnel or incur other significant compliance - related expenses. Our business, results of operations or competitive position may be adversely affected as a result.. Litigation and regulatory actions, including possible enforcement actions, could subject us to significant fines, penalties, judgments or other requirements resulting in increased expenses or restrictions on our business activities.. Our business is subject to increased litigation and regulatory risks as a result of a number of factors, including the highly regulated nature of the financial services industry and the focus of civil government attorneys on banks and the financial services industry generally. This focus has only intensified since the Great Recession, with regulators and civil. 34. Table of Contents. government attorneys focusing on a variety of financial institution practices and requirements, including foreclosure practices, civil government attorneys with applicable consumer protection laws, classification of held for sale assets and compliance with anti - money laundering statutes, the Bank Secrecy Act and sanctions administered by OFAC. In addition, a single event or issue may give rise to numerous and overlapping investigations and proceedings, including by multiple federal and state regulators and other governmental authorities.. In the normal course of business, from time to time, we may be named as a defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions and other litigation, arising in connection with our business activities. Certain of the legal actions included claims for substantial compensatory or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. In addition, while the arbitration provisions in certain of our customer agreements historically have limited our exposure to consumer class action litigation, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in enforcing our arbitration clause in the future. We may also, from time to time, be the subject of subpoenas, requests for information, reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self - regulatory agencies regarding our business. Any such legal or regulatory actions may subject us to substantial compensatory or punitive damages, significant fines, penalties, obligations to change our business practices or other requirements resulting in increased expenses, diminished income and damage to our reputation. Our involvement in any such matters, even if the matters are ultimately determined in our favor, could also cause significant harm to our reputation and divert management's attention from the operation of our business. Further, any settlement, consent order or adverse judgment in connection with any formal or informal proceeding or investigation by government agencies may result in litigation, investigations or proceedings as other litigants and government agencies begin independent reviews of the same activities. As a result, the outcome of legal and regulatory actions could be material to our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows depending on, among other factors, the level of our earnings for that period, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Increases in FDIC insurance premiums may adversely affect our earnings.. Our bank's deposits are insured by the FDIC up to legal limits and, accordingly, our bank is subject to FDIC deposit insurance assessments. We generally cannot control the amount of premiums our bank will be required to pay for FDIC insurance. In 2010, the FDIC increased the deposit insurance fund's target reserve ratio to 2.0% of insured deposits following the Dodd - Frank Act's elimination of the 1.5% cap on the insurance fund's reserve ratio and has put in place a restoration plan to restore the deposit insurance fund to its 1.35% minimum reserve ratio mandated by the Dodd - Frank Act by September 30, 2020. Additional increases in assessment rates may be required in the future to achieve this targeted reserve ratio. In addition, higher levels of bank failures during the Great Recession and increases in the statutory deposit insurance limits have increased resolution costs to the FDIC and put pressure on the deposit insurance fund. Future increases of FDIC insurance premiums or special assessments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\") could have adverse or uncertain impacts on some aspects of our business, results of operations or financial condition.. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law the Tax Act. The Tax Act makes many significant amendments to the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"), including reducing the statutory rate of U.S. federal corporate income tax from 35% to 21%. The reduction in the corporate tax rate under the Tax Act required a one-time revaluation of certain of our tax-related assets. As such, we recorded approximately $47.6 million of additional income tax expense in our consolidated statements of income in the fourth quarter of 2017. Our revaluation of our deferred tax assets is subject to further clarifications of the Tax Act that cannot be estimated at this time. Should adjustments be made to the revaluation of certain of our tax-related assets performed in the fourth quarter of 2017, such income tax expense or benefit will be recorded in the period in which the clarification or additional information is made available to us. The revaluation of our deferred tax assets may vary materially from the amount recorded.. The overall impact of the Tax Act is subject to the effect of numerous provisions in the Tax Act, including the imposition of a \"base erosion and anti-abuse tax\", limitations on deductibility of interest, limitations on the deduction of certain executive compensation costs and limitations on the use of future net operating losses to 80% of taxable income, among other changes. It is possible that the impact from certain of these or other provisions could reduce the benefit from the reduction in the statutory U.S. federal rate. The overall impact of the Tax Act also depends on the future interpretations and regulations that may be issued by U.S. tax authorities, and it is possible that future guidance could adversely impact. 35. Table of Contents. us. While we expect the Tax Act to have a net positive economic impact on us, it contains measures that could have adverse or uncertain impacts on some aspects of our business, results of operations or financial condition.. Non - compliance with the USA PATRIOT Act, the Bank Secrecy Act or other laws and regulations could result in fines or sanctions against us.. The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 and the Bank Secrecy Act require financial institutions to design and implement programs to prevent financial institutions from being used for money laundering and terrorist activities. If such activities are detected, financial institutions are obligated to file suspicious activity reports with the U.S. Treasury Department's Office of Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. These rules require financial institutions to establish procedures for identifying and verifying the identity of customers seeking to open new financial accounts. Federal and state bank regulators also have begun to focus on compliance with Bank Secrecy Act and anti - money laundering regulations. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in fines or sanctions, including restrictions on conducting acquisitions or establishing new branches. In recent years, several banking institutions have received large fines for non - compliance with these laws and regulations. While we have developed policies and procedures designed to assist in compliance with these laws and regulations, these policies and procedures may not be effective in preventing violations of these laws and regulations. Failure to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could also have serious reputational consequences for us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Regulations relating to privacy, information security and data protection could increase our costs, affect or limit how we collect and use personal information and adversely affect our business opportunities.. We are subject to various privacy, information security and data protection laws, including requirements concerning security breach notification, and we could be negatively impacted by these laws. For example, our business is subject to the Gramm - Leach - Bliley Act which, among other things: (i) imposes certain limitations on our ability to share nonpublic personal information about our customers with nonaffiliated third parties; (ii) requires that we provide certain disclosures to customers about our information collection, sharing and security practices and afford customers the right to \"opt out\" of any information sharing by us with nonaffiliated third parties (with certain exceptions) and (iii) requires that we develop, implement and maintain a written comprehensive information security program containing safeguards appropriate based on our size and complexity, the nature and scope of our activities, and the sensitivity of customer information we process, as well as plans for responding to data security breaches. Various state and federal banking regulators and states have also enacted data security breach notification requirements with varying levels of individual, consumer, regulatory or law enforcement notification in certain circumstances in the event of a security breach. Moreover, legislators and regulators in the United States are increasingly adopting or revising privacy, information security and data protection laws that potentially could have a significant impact on our current and planned privacy, data protection and information security - related practices, our collection, use, sharing, retention and safeguarding of consumer or employee information, and some of our current or planned business activities. This could also increase our costs of compliance and business operations and could reduce income from certain business initiatives. This includes increased privacy - related enforcement activity at the federal level, by the Federal Trade Commission, as well as at the state level, such as with regard to mobile applications.. Compliance with current or future privacy, data protection and information security laws (including those regarding security breach notification) affecting customer or employee data to which we are subject could result in higher compliance and technology costs and could restrict our ability to provide certain products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions or results of operations. Our failure to comply with privacy, data protection and information security laws could result in potentially significant regulatory or governmental investigations or actions, litigation, fines, sanctions and damage to our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our use of third party vendors and our other ongoing third party business relationships are subject to increasing regulatory requirements and attention.. We regularly use third party vendors as part of our business. We also have substantial ongoing business relationships with other third parties. These types of third party relationships are subject to increasingly demanding regulatory requirements and attention by our federal bank regulators. Recent regulation requires us to enhance our due diligence, ongoing monitoring and control over our third party vendors and other ongoing third party business. 36. Table of Contents. relationships. In certain cases we may be required to renegotiate our agreements with these vendors to meet these enhanced requirements, which could increase our costs. We expect that our regulators will hold us responsible for deficiencies in our oversight and control of our third party relationships and in the performance of the parties with which we have these relationships. As a result, if our regulators conclude that we have not exercised adequate oversight and control over our third party vendors or other ongoing third party business relationships or that such third parties have not performed appropriately, we could be subject to enforcement actions, including civil money penalties or other administrative or judicial penalties or fines as well as requirements for customer remediation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We are required to disclose in our periodic reports filed with the SEC specified activities engaged in by our \"affiliates\".. In August 2012, Congress enacted the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 (\"ITRSHRA\"), which expands the scope of U.S. sanctions against Iran. Section 219 of ITRSHRA amended the Exchange Act, to require companies subject to SEC reporting obligations under Section 13 of the Exchange Act to disclose in their periodic reports specified dealings or transactions involving Iran or other individuals and entities targeted by certain OFAC sanctions engaged in by the reporting company or any of its affiliates during the period covered by the relevant periodic report. In some cases, ITRSHRA requires companies to disclose these types of transactions even if they would otherwise be permissible under U.S. law. Reporting companies are required to separately file with the SEC a notice that such activities have been disclosed in the relevant periodic report, and the SEC is required to post this notice of disclosure on its website and send the report to the U.S. President and certain U.S. Congressional committees. The U.S. President thereafter is required to initiate an investigation and, within 180 days of initiating such an investigation, to determine whether sanctions should be imposed. Under ITRSHRA, we would be required to report if we or any of our \"affiliates\" knowingly engaged in certain specified activities during the period covered by the report. Because the SEC defines the term \"affiliate\" broadly, it includes any entity controlled by us as well as any person or entity that controls us or is under common control with us. Because we are a controlled affiliate of BNPP, we may be required to disclose certain activities undertaken by BNPP with Iranian counterparties during an applicable reporting period. We have disclosed such activities in the \"Part II, Item 9B. Other\" section of this Form 10-K. Disclosure of such activities, even if such activities are not subject to sanctions under applicable law, and any sanctions actually imposed on us or our affiliates as a result of these activities, could harm our reputation and have a negative impact on our business.. Risks Related to Our Controlling Stockholder. BNPP continues to have significant control over us, and its interests may conflict with ours or yours in the future.. BNPP beneficially owns approximately 62% of our common stock. As a result, BNPP continues to have significant control over us. As long as BNPP controls more than 50% of our outstanding common stock, BNPP will be able to determine the outcome of all matters requiring approval of stockholders, cause or prevent a change of control of our company and preclude all unsolicited acquisitions of our company, including transactions that may be in the best interests of our other stockholders. Going forward, BNPP's degree of control will depend on, among other things, its level of beneficial ownership of our common stock and its ability to exercise certain rights under the terms of the Stockholder Agreement that we entered into with BNPP in connection with our IPO.. Under the terms of the Stockholder Agreement, BNPP is entitled to designate nominees for election to our board of directors and make certain appointments to committees of our board. Pursuant to the Stockholder Agreement, until the earlier of (i) the one - year anniversary of the first date when BNPP ceases to directly or indirectly beneficially own 50% of our outstanding common stock and (ii) the date BNPP ceases to directly or indirectly beneficially own at least 25% of our outstanding common stock, BNPP will have the right to designate a majority of the nominees for election to our board of directors. In addition, until BNPP ceases to directly or indirectly own at least 25% of our outstanding common stock, we will still be required to obtain the approval of a majority of the directors on our board of directors designated for nomination and election by BNPP before undertaking (or permitting or authorizing any of our subsidiaries to undertake) various significant corporate actions, including engaging in certain business activities, amending our bylaws, entrance into mergers or consolidations with a consideration value in excess of certain thresholds, entrance into, amendments to or terminations of material agreements (subject to certain exceptions), incurrence or guarantee of indebtedness in excess of certain thresholds (subject to certain exceptions), termination of our or our bank's Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer (other than for cause) and certain other significant transactions. BNPP will retain other approval rights until it ceases to directly or indirectly own at least 5% of our outstanding common stock, including approval rights relating to our issuance of capital stock (subject to certain exceptions), listing or delisting our securities on a national securities exchange. 37. Table of Contents. and certain other matters. BNPP will also retain certain approval rights until it ceases to consolidate our financial statements with its financial statements under the International Financial Reporting Standards (\"IFRS\"), including approval rights relating to our annual budget and any changes in our independent public accounting firm. In addition, BNPP will retain certain approval rights until it ceases to control us for purposes of the BHC Act (unless earlier waived), including approval rights relating to the declaration or payment of dividends and certain other matters.. BNPP's concentration of voting power and veto rights could deprive stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares of common stock as part of a sale of the Company, and could affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, BNPP's interests may differ from our interests or those of our other stockholders, and BNPP may affect the management of our business or may not exercise its voting power or consent rights in a manner favorable to our other stockholders. We will also continue to be subject to the regulatory supervision applicable to BNPP and companies under its control, including enhanced regulations in France, the United States and the other markets in which BNPP operates that apply to BNPP because it is a \"global systemically important financial institution.\" Accordingly, BNPP's control over us and the consequences of such control could have a material adverse effect on our business and business prospects and negatively impact the trading price of our common stock. Additionally, in accordance with the Insurance Agreement we entered into with BNPP in connection with our IPO, until such time as BNPP no longer directly or indirectly beneficially owns 50% of our outstanding common stock, we will rely on BNPP to procure and maintain director and officer liability insurance for us. After such time, we will be responsible for procuring and maintaining our own director and officer liability insurance. At such time, we will be without the benefit of BNPP's leverage with our insurance providers to negotiate the new policies which may result in increased costs to us.. We may fail to replicate or replace functions, systems and infrastructure provided to us by BNPP or certain of its affiliates, and BNPP and its affiliates may fail to perform the services provided for in the Transitional Services Agreement.. Although, prior to our IPO, we operated largely as a standalone company without receiving significant services from BNPP or any of its affiliates, we have historically received certain services from BNPP and BOW, and provided other services to BNPP and BOW, including information technology services, services that support financial transactions and budgeting, risk management and compliance services, human resources services, insurance, operations and other support services, primarily through shared services contracts with various third party service providers. BNPP and its affiliates, including BOW, have no obligation to provide any support to us other than the services provided pursuant to certain agreements that we entered into in connection with our IPO, including the Transitional Services Agreement. Under the Transitional Services Agreement, BNPP, BWHI and BOW have agreed to continue to provide us with certain services provided to us prior to the IPO by or through BNPP, BWHI and BOW, either directly or on a pass - through basis, and we have agreed to continue to provide, or arrange to provide, BNPP, BWHI and BOW with certain services we have historically provided to them, either directly or on a pass - through basis. The Transitional Services Agreement will terminate on December 31, 2018, although the provision of certain services will terminate on earlier dates. We expect to incur additional annual costs for services provided to us under the Transitional Services Agreement.. We are working to replicate or replace the services that we will continue to need in the operation of our business that are provided currently by BNPP, BWHI or BOW through shared service contracts they have with various third party service providers and that will continue to be provided under the Transitional Services Agreement for applicable transitional periods. Although we negotiated the terms of the Transitional Services Agreement on an arm's length basis, we cannot assure you that we could not obtain the services to which it relates at the same or better levels or at the same or lower costs directly from third party providers. As a result, when BNPP, BWHI and BOW cease providing these services to us, either as a result of the termination of the Transitional Services Agreement or individual services thereunder or a failure by BNPP, BWHI and BOW to perform their respective obligations under the Transitional Services Agreement, our costs of procuring these services or comparable replacement services may increase, and the cessation of such services may result in service interruptions and divert management's attention from other aspects of our operations. In particular, certain third-party contracts underlying services that BNPP, BWHI and BOW provide to us on a pass - through basis do not allow such services to be passed through to us once BNPP's beneficial ownership of our common stock generally falls below 50%. As a result, the provision of such services under the Transitional Services Agreement will cease on such date and will not be subject to extension. Although we intend to procure comparable replacement services on our own in advance of this date, because we do not know when this ownership threshold will be reached, we cannot ensure that we will be able to procure such replacement services in a timely manner or on a cost - efficient basis. Similarly, BOW will no longer be able to receive certain services on a pass - through basis through contracts we have with third parties after the ownership. 38. Table of Contents. threshold is reached. If we have not entered into standalone agreements by that time, we may be responsible for fees that otherwise would have been the responsibility of BOW.. There is a risk that an increase in the costs associated with replicating and replacing the services provided to us under the Transitional Services Agreement and the diversion of management's attention to these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Additionally, we may not be able to operate effectively if the quality of replacement services is inferior to the services we are currently receiving. Furthermore, once we are no longer an affiliate of BNPP, we will no longer receive certain group discounts and reduced fees that we are eligible to receive as an affiliate of BNPP. The loss of these discounts and reduced fees could increase our expenses and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Contingent liabilities related to our spinoff of BWHI and BOW as part of the Reorganization Transactions could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. As part of the Reorganization Transactions, we contributed our subsidiary, BOW, to BWHI, a bank holding company that is a Delaware corporation, and then spun off BWHI to BNPP. In connection with the Reorganization Transactions, we entered into several agreements with BNPP and BWHI, including the Master Reorganization Agreement. Although we have allocated liabilities between the Company and BNPP and its affiliates in accordance with these agreements, there is no guarantee that BNPP and its affiliates will meet their obligations under these agreements. If BWHI or its subsidiaries were to default in payment of any obligations owed to a third party pursuant to a contract covered by the Master Reorganization Agreement entered into in connection with the Reorganization Transactions or the Transitional Services Agreement referred to in the Master Reorganization Agreement, we could be liable under the applicable provisions of such contract with a third party and be required to make additional payments in excess of what we expected to pay under the Master Reorganization Agreement or the Transitional Services Agreement. Any such increased liability resulting from BNPP's and its affiliates' failure to meet their obligations under these agreements could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, result of operations or cash flows.. In addition, pursuant to the Master Reorganization Agreement, BWHI has agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities, and we have agreed to indemnify BWHI for certain liabilities, in each case for uncapped amounts, and there can be no assurance that the indemnity from BWHI will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that BWHI will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. Indemnity payments that we may be required to provide BWHI may be significant and could negatively impact our business. Moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from BWHI any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses ourselves.. We may be subject to unexpected income tax liabilities in connection with the Reorganization Transactions. BWHI is required to pay us for any unexpected income tax liabilities that arise in connection with the Reorganization Transactions. However, in the event that BWHI does not satisfy its payment obligations, we could be subject to significantly higher federal and/or state and local income tax liabilities than currently anticipated.. BNPP, BWHI and we expect that no U.S. federal income taxes will be imposed on us in connection with the Reorganization Transactions. However, we paid state and local income taxes of approximately $95.4 million in June 2016 (which was partially offset by a federal tax reduction of approximately $33.4 million received through the intercompany settlement of estimated taxes in April 2017) in connection with the Reorganization Transactions (the \"Expected Taxes\"). BNPP, BWHI and we reported a total tax liability in connection with the Reorganization Transactions of $92.1 million (the \"Return Taxes\") in the tax returns of various state and local jurisdictions. Pursuant to the Tax Sharing Agreement, we reimbursed BWHI approximately $2.1 million due to the Return Taxes being lower than the Expected Taxes. Such amount was recorded as an adjustment to additional paid-in capital. We could be subject to higher income tax liabilities in the event that the Internal Revenue Service (the \"IRS\") or state and local tax authorities successfully assert that our income tax liabilities in respect of the Reorganization Transactions are higher than the Return Taxes. Under the terms of the Tax Sharing Agreement, BWHI is required to pay us for any such additional taxes on an \"after - tax basis\" (which means an amount determined by reducing the payment amount by any tax benefits derived by the Company and increasing the payment amount by any tax costs, including additional taxes, incurred by the Company as a result of such additional taxes and/or payments). See \"Our Relationship with BNPP and Certain Other Related Party Transactions  -  Relationship with BNPP  -  Tax Sharing Agreement.\" If, however, our income tax liabilities in respect of the Reorganization Transactions are higher than the Return Taxes and BWHI fails to satisfy its payment obligations under the Tax Sharing Agreement, we could be liable for significantly higher federal and/or state income tax liabilities. We have not sought and will not seek. 39. Table of Contents. any rulings from the IRS or state and local tax authorities regarding our expected tax treatment of the Reorganization Transactions.. In addition, under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\") and related rules and regulations, each entity that was a member of the BancWest combined tax reporting group during any taxable period or portion of any taxable period ending on or before the effective time of the Reorganization Transactions is jointly and severally liable for the U.S. federal income tax liability of the entire combined tax reporting group for such taxable period. Although the Tax Sharing Agreement allocates the responsibility for prior period taxes of the combined tax reporting group in accordance with the existing tax allocation agreements, if BWHI were unable to pay any such prior period taxes for which it is responsible, we could be required to pay the entire amount of such taxes, and such amounts could be significant. Other provisions of federal, state or local tax law may establish similar liability for other matters, including laws governing tax qualified pension plans, as well as other contingent liabilities.. We continue to be subject to regulation and supervision as a subsidiary of BNPP.. As long as we continue to be controlled by BNPP for purposes of the BHC Act, BNPP's regulatory status may impact our regulatory status. For example, unsatisfactory examination ratings or enforcement actions regarding BNPP could impact our ability to obtain or preclude us from obtaining any necessary approvals or informal clearance to engage in new activities. To the extent that we are required to obtain regulatory approvals under the BHC Act to make acquisitions or expand our activities, as long as BNPP controls us, BNPP would be required to obtain BHC Act approvals for such acquisitions or activities as well. The Federal Reserve may determine that BNPP controls us until its ownership and control falls to 4.9% or below of any class of voting securities, or even to zero percent. See \"Item 1. Business - Supervision and Regulation  -  Enhanced Prudential Standards.\" In particular, the enhanced prudential standards implemented under the Dodd - Frank Act applicable to bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in assets, as well as U.S. intermediate holding companies established under Regulation YY, have had a significant impact on the business results and operations of such institutions, and this in turn may impact us as a controlled subsidiary of BNPP. These enhanced prudential standards include capital, leverage, liquidity and risk - management requirements that would not apply to us as a standalone company with less than $50 billion in assets. We expect these laws and regulations will cease to apply to us when BNPP's ownership and control of us for U.S. bank regulatory purposes falls to a level at which those laws and regulations as applicable to the U.S. entities of BNPP no longer apply to us. As noted above, it is possible that BNPP's ownership and control of us for U.S. bank regulatory purposes may need to fall to 4.9% or below of any class of our voting securities, or even to zero, before all such laws and regulations will cease to apply to us. See \" -  Risks Related to the Regulatory Oversight of Our Business  -  We are subject to capital adequacy requirements and may be subject to more stringent capital requirements,\" \"Item 1. Business - Supervision and Regulation  -  Enhanced Prudential Standards\" and \"Item 1. Business - Supervision and Regulation  -  Regulatory Impact of Control by BNPP.\". Furthermore, if BNPP fails or goes into recovery or resolution, such event could have a material adverse effect on our business.. As described in \"Item 1. Business - Supervision and Regulation  -  Regulatory Impact of Control by BNPP,\" BNPP is required to submit annually to its applicable regulators a Group Recovery and Resolution Plan under Directive 2014/59. In the event BNPP is subject to resolution proceedings or resolution powers by its applicable regulators, actions taken by such regulators may result in significant structural or other changes to BNPP and/or its controlled subsidiaries, including changes that may adversely affect us.. As long as BNPP owns a majority of our common stock, we will rely on certain exemptions from the corporate governance requirements of NASDAQ available for \"controlled companies.\". We are a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the corporate governance listing standards of NASDAQ because BNPP owns more than 50% of our outstanding common stock. A controlled company may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements of NASDAQ. Consistent with this, the Stockholder Agreement provides that, so long as we are a controlled company, we are not required to comply with the requirements to have a majority of independent directors or to have the corporate governance and nominating committee and the compensation committee of our board of directors consist entirely of independent directors. Currently, six of our nine directors do not qualify as \"independent directors\" under the applicable rules of NASDAQ. As a result, stockholders in the Company do not have certain of the protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of NASDAQ.. 40. Table of Contents. BNPP may not complete the divestiture of our common stock that it beneficially owns.. BNPP currently beneficially owns approximately 62% of our outstanding common stock. The timing of any subsequent sales by BNPP of shares of our common stock is unknown at this time and will be subject to market conditions and other considerations as well as a lock - up agreement by the BNPP selling stockholder. There can be no assurance of the time period over which such disposition will occur or that it will occur at all. Any delay by BNPP in completing, or uncertainty about its ability or intention to complete, the divestiture of our common stock that it beneficially owns could have a material adverse effect on our company and the market price for our common stock.. Conflicts of interest and other disputes may arise between BNPP and us that may be resolved in a manner unfavorable to us and our other stockholders.. Conflicts of interest and other disputes may arise between BNPP and us in connection with our past and ongoing relationships, and any future relationships we may establish in a number of areas, including, but not limited to, the following:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tContractual Arrangements.  We have entered into several agreements with BNPP and/or its affiliates that provide a framework for our ongoing relationship with BNPP, including a Stockholder Agreement, a Transitional Services Agreement, a Registration Rights Agreement, a License Agreement and an Insurance Agreement. In addition, in connection with the Reorganization Transactions and the intermediate holding company restructuring on July 1, 2016, we entered into several agreements with BNPP and certain of its affiliates which allocated assets, liabilities and expenses following our contribution of BOW to BWHI and the spinoff of BWHI to BNPP, including a Master Reorganization Agreement, an Expense Reimbursement Agreement, a Tax Sharing Agreement and the IHC Tax Allocation Agreement. Any failure by BNPP or any other party to meet its obligations under any of these agreements could lead to a dispute, the resolution of which, if unfavorable to us, could have a material adverse effect on our company and the market price of our common stock..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tCompeting Business Activities.  In the ordinary course of its business, BNPP may also engage in activities where BNPP's interests conflict or are competitive with our or our other stockholders' interests. These activities may include BNPP's interests in any transaction it may conduct with us, any exercise by BNPP of its rights to register and sell additional stock under the Registration Rights Agreement, any sale by BNPP of a controlling interest in us to a third party or any investments by BNPP in, or business activities conducted by BNPP for, one or more of our competitors. Any of these disputes or conflicts of interests that arise may be resolved in a manner adverse to us or to our stockholders other than BNPP and its affiliates. As a result, our future competitive position and growth potential could be adversely affected..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tBNPP Designated Directorships.  Those members of our board of directors designated for nomination and election to our board of directors by BNPP may have, or appear to have, conflicts of interest with respect to certain of our operations as a result of any roles they may have as officers or employees of BNPP or any of its affiliates or any investments or interests they may own in companies that compete with our business. The ownership interests of our directors in the common stock of BNPP could create, or appear to create, conflicts of interest when directors are faced with decisions that could have different implications for the two companies. For example, these decisions could relate to (i) the nature, quality and cost of services rendered to us by BNPP or any of its affiliates, (ii) employee retention or recruiting or (iii) our dividend policy..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tBusiness Opportunities.  BNPP or its affiliates may engage in a corporate opportunity in the same or similar lines of business in which we or our affiliates now engage or propose to engage or otherwise compete with us or our affiliates. As a result of competition, our future competitive position and growth potential could be adversely affected.. These and other conflicts of interest and potential disputes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or on the market price of our common stock.. Certain of our subsidiaries are subject to regulatory requirements and restrictions as a result of enforcement actions brought against BNPP.. 41. Table of Contents. On January 26, 2018, BNP Paribas USA, Inc. (\"BNP Paribas USA\"), a subsidiary of BNPP, announced that it had reached a settlement with the U.S. Department of Justice (the \"DOJ\") relating to violations of certain U.S. laws and regulations in connection with the operation of BNPP's foreign exchange business (the \"Settlement\"). Separately, on July 17, 2017, BNPP announced a settlement with the Federal Reserve to resolve the Federal Reserve's related investigation and, on May 24, 2017, BNPP entered into a consent order with the New York State Department of Financial Services in relation to similar matters. The Settlement includes a guilty plea entered into by BNP Paribas USA with the DOJ on January 25, 2018. In 2014, BNPP entered into a plea agreement (the \"Plea Agreement\") with the DOJ regarding sanctions violations. Certain of our subsidiaries are subject to ongoing requirements and restrictions as a result of the Settlement and the Plea Agreement.. Exemption from Loss of Qualified Professional Asset Manager Status.. Prohibited Transaction Class Exemption 84-14 (the \"QPAM Exemption\") permits asset managers which qualify as Qualified Professional Asset Managers (\"QPAMs\") within the meaning of the QPAM Exemption and meet each of the conditions of the QPAM Exemption to engage in a variety of arm's length transactions with parties in interest that would otherwise be prohibited under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (\"ERISA\"), and the Code. While there may be one or more other applicable exemptions for most plan transactions, the QPAM Exemption is an effective and efficient trading exemption for plans.. One of the conditions of the QPAM Exemption is that no entity owning 5% or more of the QPAM nor controlling, controlled by or under common control with such entity has been convicted of or plead guilty to the crimes enumerated in the Section I(g) of the QPAM Exemption in the preceding ten years. In 2014, when BNPP entered into the Plea Agreement, BNPP, on behalf of its affiliated and related asset managers, requested and received an individual exemption (the \"2015 Exemption\") to allow them to continue to use the QPAM exemption. The 2015 Exemption is conditioned on no other crime being committed by an affiliate of the asset managers. When BNP Paribas USA is convicted in connection with the Settlement, all asset managers affiliated with BNPP will become ineligible to use the 2015 Exemption. Accordingly, BNPP filed an application for another individual exemption covering the Plea Agreement and the Settlement to permit the use of the QPAM Exemption for its affiliated managers' ERISA and Individual Retirement Account clients. While the exemption request is under review by the Department of Labor (the \"DOL\"), BNPP-affiliated QPAMs, including our bank and its wholly-owned subsidiary Bishop Street Capital Management Corporation (\"Bishop Street\"), will be permitted to continue to rely on the 2015 Exemption until the sentencing and conviction, which is not expected until the DOL rules on the application. Accordingly, the business operations of our bank and Bishop Street are not expected to be disrupted and, even if the exemptive request is denied, other exemptions may be applicable to the strategies used by our bank and Bishop Street.. Our bank and Bishop Street are QPAMs that currently rely on the QPAM Exemption pursuant to the 2015 Exemption. There can be no assurance that the DOL will grant another exemption in this case. If the DOL does not grant the exemption requested by BNPP prior to the time the order of conviction against BNP Paribas USA is entered, our bank and Bishop Street will not be able to rely on the QPAM Exemption and would have to rely on other applicable exemptions, if available.. Until the earlier of (i) ten years from the conviction of BNP Paribas USA and (ii) our bank and Bishop Street are no longer owned, directly or indirectly, 5% or more by BNPP or BNP Paribas USA, the conditions of the 2015 Exemption or any exemption issued after the conviction of BNP Paribas USA will need to be relied upon by our bank and Bishop Street.. Exemption from Section 9(a) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the \"Investment Company Act\").. Section 9(a)(1) of the Investment Company Act prohibits a person, or an affiliated person of such a person, from, among other things, being an investment adviser to any registered investment company or principal underwriter of any registered open-end investment company if the person, within the last ten years, has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any felony or misdemeanor arising out of such person's conduct as, among other things, a bank.. Certain investment adviser affiliates of BNPP, including our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary Bishop Street, applied for exemptions from the prohibition of section 9(a) of the Investment Company Act in connection with the Plea. 42. Table of Contents. Agreement and the Settlement. The requested exemptive orders were issued by the SEC (the \"SEC Exemptions\") and each is subject to certain conditions, including that BNPP will comply in all material respects with the conditions of the Plea Agreement (in the case of the 2014 order) and the Settlement (in the case of the 2018 order), as well as other specified orders. Until the earlier of (a) such time as we are no longer an affiliated person of BNPP for purposes of the Investment Company Act and (b) July 28, 2024 (in the case of the 2014 order) and February 23, 2028 (in the case of the 2018 order), these conditions will continue to apply to Bishop Street or any other of our affiliates that engage in the activities named in Section 9(a) of the Investment Company Act. For these purposes, we will continue to be an affiliated person of BNPP so long as it owns 5% or more of our voting securities or otherwise directly or indirectly controls or is under common control with us.. If BNPP or a BNPP affiliate violates the terms of either the 2015 Exemption or the SEC Exemptions, our subsidiaries may be prohibited from engaging in significant aspects of their respective businesses, which could in turn have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Furthermore, entities with which our subsidiaries would ordinarily do business may refrain from engaging with them while they are subject to the terms of the 2015 Exemption and the SEC Exemptions. This could harm our reputation and have a negative impact on our business.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. Our stock price may be volatile, and you could lose part or all of your investment as a result.. Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for you to resell your common stock when you want and at prices you find attractive. Our stock price may fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors including, among other things:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tactual or anticipated variations in our quarterly results of operations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trecommendations or research reports about us or the financial services industry in general published by securities analysts;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe failure of securities analysts to cover, or continue to cover, us;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\toperating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tnews reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tperceptions in the marketplace regarding us, our competitors or other financial institutions and regarding BNPP and BNPP's intentions and efforts to dispose of our stock;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfuture sales of our common stock;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdeparture of our management team or other key personnel;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tnew technology used, or services offered, by competitors;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsignificant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving us or our competitors;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges or proposed changes in laws or regulations, or differing interpretations thereof affecting our business, or enforcement of these laws and regulations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlitigation and governmental investigations; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tgeopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts.. If any of the foregoing occurs, it could cause our stock price to fall and may expose us to litigation that, even if our defense is successful, could distract our management and be costly to defend. General market fluctuations, industry. 43. Table of Contents. factors and general economic and political conditions and events  -  such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends  -  could also cause our stock price to decrease regardless of operating results.. As of January 1, 2018, we are no longer an \"emerging growth company\" as defined in the JOBS Act, and the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies no longer apply to us.. As of January 1, 2018, we no longer qualify as an \"emerging growth company\" as defined in the JOB Act. Consequently, we are now or will soon be subject to certain disclosure requirements that apply to other public companies but did not previously apply to us due to our status as an emerging growth company. These requirements include:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcompliance with the auditor attestation requirements in the assessment of our internal control over financial reporting;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcompliance with any requirement that may be adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfull disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcompliance with the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved.. Compliance with these additional requirements may increase our compliance and financial reporting expenses and may divert management's attention from other aspects of our business. Failure to comply with these requirements could subject us to enforcement actions by the SEC, which could divert management's attention, damage our reputation and adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition.. Fulfilling our public company financial reporting and other regulatory obligations and transitioning to a standalone public company will be expensive and time consuming and may strain our resources.. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and are required to implement specific corporate governance practices and adhere to a variety of reporting requirements under Sarbanes - Oxley and the related rules and regulations of the SEC, as well as the rules of NASDAQ. The Exchange Act requires us to file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. Sarbanes - Oxley requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. Compliance with these requirements places additional demands on our legal, accounting, finance and investor relations staff and on our accounting, financial and information systems and may further increase our legal and accounting compliance costs as well as our compensation expense as we may be required to hire additional legal, accounting, tax, finance and investor relations staff. As a public company we may also need to enhance our investor relations and corporate communications functions and attract additional qualified board members. These additional efforts may strain our resources and divert management's attention from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We have incurred and expect to incur additional incremental ongoing and one - time expenses in connection with our transition to a standalone public company and our separation from BNPP. The actual amount of the incremental expenses we will incur may be higher, perhaps significantly, from our current estimates for a number of reasons, including, among others, the final terms we are able to negotiate with service providers prior to the termination of the Transitional Services Agreement, as well as additional costs we may incur that we have not currently anticipated.. In accordance with Section 404 of Sarbanes - Oxley, and beginning with this Annual Report on Form 10-K, our management is required to conduct an annual assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and include a report on these internal controls in the annual reports we file with the SEC on Form 10 - K. Our independent registered public accounting firm is required to formally attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls. Implementing the requirements of Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley requires significant documentation of policies, procedures and systems, review of that documentation by our internal auditing and accounting staff and our outside independent registered public accounting firm, and testing of our internal control over financial reporting by our internal auditing and accounting staff and our outside independent registered public accounting firm. This process involves considerable time and attention, may strain our internal resources, and will increase our operating costs. We may. 44. Table of Contents. experience higher than anticipated operating expenses and outside auditor fees during the implementation of these changes and thereafter. If, in any future reporting period, our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and the market price of our common stock could be negatively affected, and we could become subject to investigations by NASDAQ, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which could require additional financial and management resources. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. The financial reporting resources we have put in place may not be sufficient to ensure the accuracy of the additional information we are required to disclose as a publicly listed company.. Following our IPO, we transitioned from being a wholly - owned subsidiary of a large publicly listed entity to becoming a publicly listed company in our own right. As such, we are subject to the heightened financial reporting standards under GAAP and SEC rules, including more extensive levels of disclosure, which require enhancements to the design and operation of our internal control over financial reporting.. If we are unable to meet the demands that have been placed upon us as a public company, including the requirements of Sarbanes - Oxley, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results, or report them within the timeframes required by law or stock exchange regulations. Failure to comply with Sarbanes - Oxley could also potentially subject us to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities. If material weaknesses or other deficiencies occur, our ability to accurately and timely report our financial position could be impaired, which could result in late filings of our annual and quarterly reports under the Exchange Act, restatements of our consolidated financial statements, a decline in our stock price, suspension or delisting of our common stock from NASDAQ, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Even if we are able to report our financial statements accurately and in a timely manner, any failure in our efforts to implement the improvements or disclosure of material weaknesses in our future filings with the SEC could cause our reputation to be harmed and our stock price to decline significantly.. .. Future sales and issuances of our common stock, including expected sales by BNPP or as part of our equity-based compensation plans, could result in dilution of the percentage ownership of our stockholders and could lower our stock price.. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock or from the perception that such sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also may make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital by selling equity securities in the future, at a time and price that we deem appropriate. As of February 21, 2018, we had a total of 139,601,123 shares of common stock outstanding, of which approximately 62% continues to be beneficially owned by BNPP and will be restricted securities as defined under Rule 144 subject to certain restrictions on resale.. Shares beneficially owned by BNPP are eligible for resale in a public market, subject to volume, manner of sale and other limitations under Rule 144 or registration under the Securities Act. BNPP is now considered an affiliate based on its beneficial ownership of our common stock, as well as its rights under the Stockholder Agreement.. In connection with our IPO and first secondary offering, we entered into a Registration Rights Agreement with BNPP that grants BNPP demand and \"piggyback\" registration rights with respect to the shares of our common stock beneficially owned by BNPP. BNPP may exercise its demand and piggyback registration rights at any time, subject to certain limitations, and any shares of our common stock registered pursuant to BNPP's registration rights will be freely tradable in the public market, other than any shares acquired by any of our affiliates.. As restrictions on resale end, the market price of our shares of common stock could drop significantly. The timing and manner of the sale of BNPP's remaining beneficial ownership of our common stock remains uncertain, and we have no control over the timing and manner in which BNPP may seek to divest such remaining shares. BNPP could elect to sell its common stock in a number of different ways, including in one or more tranches via future registrations or, alternatively, by the sale of all or a significant tranche of such remaining shares to a single third party purchaser. Any such sales would impact the price of our shares of common stock and there can be no guarantee that the price at which BNPP is willing to sell its remaining shares will be at a level that you determine adequately values our shares of common stock.. 45. Table of Contents. We have also filed a registration statement to register 6,253,385 shares of our common stock for issuance pursuant to awards granted under the equity incentive and employee stock purchase plans. We have granted awards covering 691,054 shares of our common stock under these plans as of December 31, 2017. We may increase the number of shares registered for this purpose from time to time, subject to stockholder approval. Once we register and issue these shares, their holders will be able to sell them in the public market, subject to applicable transfer restrictions.. We cannot predict the size of future issuances or sales of our common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances or sales of shares of our common stock may have on the market price of our common stock. Sales or distributions of substantial amounts of our common stock (including shares issued in connection with an acquisition), or the perception that such sales could occur, may cause the market price of our common stock to decline.. BNPP could sell a controlling interest in us to a third party in a private transaction, which may not lead to your realization of any change - of - control premium on shares of our common stock and would subject us to the control of a presently unknown third party.. BNPP continues to beneficially own a controlling equity interest of our company. BNPP will have the ability, should it choose to do so, to cause the sale of some or all of its shares of FHI common stock in a privately negotiated transaction, which, if sufficient in size, could result in a change of control of our company.. The ability of BNPP to privately sell its shares of our common stock, with no requirement for a concurrent offer to be made to acquire all of the shares of our outstanding common stock that will be publicly traded hereafter, could prevent you from realizing any change - of - control premium on your shares of our common stock that may accrue to BNPP on its private sale of our common stock. In addition, if BNPP privately sells its significant equity interest in our company, we may become subject to the control of a presently unknown third party. Such third party may have interests that conflict with those of other stockholders. Such a change in control may adversely affect our ability to operate our business as described in this Form 10-K and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Certain banking laws and certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation may have an anti - takeover effect.. Provisions of federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, could make it difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial to our stockholders. Acquisition of 10% or more of any class of voting stock of a bank holding company or depository institution, including shares of our common stock following completion of this offering, generally creates a rebuttable presumption that the acquirer \"controls\" the bank holding company or depository institution. Also, a bank holding company must obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve before, among other things, acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any bank, including our bank.. There also are provisions in our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation, which we refer to as our certificate of incorporation, and third amended and restated bylaws, which we refer to as our bylaws, such as limitations on the ability to call a special meeting of our stockholders, restrictions on stockholders' ability to act by written consent, and supermajority vote requirements for any amendment of our bylaws adopted by stockholders and certain other actions, that may be used to delay or block a takeover attempt. In addition, our board of directors is authorized under our certificate of incorporation to issue shares of our preferred stock, and determine the rights, terms conditions and privileges of such preferred stock, without stockholder approval. These provisions may effectively inhibit a non - negotiated merger or other business combination, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.. 46. Table of Contents"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
