[1] "ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the Company faces. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us and our business. If any of these risks were to materialize, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. Risk Associated With Our Business. We are subject to credit risk and may incur losses if loans are not repaid.. There are inherent risks associated with our lending activities. These risks include, among other things, the impact of changes in interest rates and changes in the economic conditions in the markets where we operate as well as those across the United States and abroad. Increases in interest rates and/or weakening economic conditions could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans or the value of the collateral securing these loans. We seek to mitigate the risks inherent in our loan portfolio by adhering to specific underwriting practices. Although we believe that our underwriting criteria are appropriate for the various kinds of loans we make, we may incur losses on loans that meet our underwriting criteria, and these losses may exceed the amounts set aside as reserves in our allowance for loan losses.. Our loan portfolio includes commercial and commercial real estate loans that may have higher risks than other types of loans.. Our commercial, commercial real estate, and commercial construction loans at December 31, 2017 and 2016 were $543.4 million and $478.7 million, or 46.7% and 44.7% of total loans, respectively. Commercial and commercial real estate loans generally carry larger loan balances and can involve a greater degree of financial and credit risk than other loans. As a result, banking regulators continue to give greater scrutiny to lenders with a high concentration of commercial real estate loans in their portfolios, and such lenders are expected to implement stricter underwriting criteria, internal controls, risk management policies and portfolio stress testing, as well as higher capital levels and loss allowances. The increased financial and credit risk associated with these types of loans are a result of several factors, including the concentration of principal in a limited number of loans and borrowers, the size of loan balances, the effects of general economic conditions on income-producing properties, the potential illiquidity of the real estate collateral securing such loss, and the increased difficulty of evaluating and monitoring these types of loans.. Regulators have the right to require banks to maintain elevated levels of capital or liquidity due to commercial real estate loan concentrations, and could do so, especially if there is a downturn in our local real estate markets. In addition, when underwriting a commercial or industrial loan, we may take a security interest in commercial real estate, and, in some instances upon a default by the borrower, we may foreclose on and take title to the property, which results in the incurrence of tax and other maintenance costs and which may lead to potential financial risks for us under applicable environmental laws. If hazardous substances were discovered on any of these properties, we may be liable to governmental agencies or third parties for the costs of remediation of the hazard, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Many environmental laws can impose liability regardless of whether the Bank knew of, or had been responsible for, the contamination.. Furthermore, the repayment of loans secured by commercial real estate is typically dependent upon the successful operation of the related real estate or commercial project. If the cash flows from the project are reduced, a borrower's ability to repay the loan may be impaired. This cash flow shortage may result in the failure to make loan payments. In such cases, we may be compelled to modify the terms of the loan. In addition, the nature of these loans is such that they are generally less predictable and more difficult to evaluate and monitor. As a result, repayment of these loans may, to a greater extent than residential loans, be subject to adverse conditions in the real estate market or the broader economy.. Our allowance for loan losses may be insufficient and require additional provision from earnings.. The Bank maintains an allowance for loan losses based on, among other things, national and regional economic conditions, historical loss experience and delinquency trends. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. In determining the size of the allowance for loan losses, we rely on our experience and our evaluation of economic conditions. However, we cannot predict loan losses with certainty, and we cannot provide assurance that charge-offs in future periods will not exceed the allowance for loan losses. If, as a result of general economic conditions, previously incorrect assumptions or an increase in defaulted loans, we determine that additional increases in the allowance for loan losses are necessary, we will incur additional provision expenses. In addition, regulatory agencies review the Bank's allowance for loan losses and may require additions to the allowance based on their judgment about information available to them at the time of their examination. Management could also decide that the allowance for loan losses should be increased. If charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses, we will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses. Furthermore, growth in the loan portfolio would generally lead to an increase in the provision for loan losses.. The First Bancorp - 2017 Form 10-K - Page  9. Finally, our industry is the midst of a methodology change in the calculation of the allowance for loan losses.  The incurred loss model presently in use will be replaced by a current expected credit loss model (\"CECL\").  The effective implementation date of CECL for the Company is January 1, 2020.  The Company has not calculated a formal estimate of any adjustment to the level of the allowance to meet the CECL standard; however it is likely that an increase in the level will be necessary.  As allowed by CECL implementation rules, any such increase will be a one-time capital event and will not impact the Company's earnings.. Any increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. See the section captioned \"Credit Risk Management and Allowance for Loan Losses\" in Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, located elsewhere in this report, for further discussion related to our process for determining the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses.. The Maine foreclosure process can be lengthy and add additional losses for the Bank.. Residential foreclosures in Maine occur through the judicial system. Under ideal circumstances, it can take as little as six months to foreclose on a Maine property; however, if the borrower contests the foreclosure or the court delays the foreclosure, the process may take as long as two years. In 2009, the Maine Legislature passed \"An Act to Preserve Home Ownership and Stabilize the Economy by Preventing Unnecessary Foreclosures.\" This law provides for mediation of foreclosure of residential mortgages and borrowers may choose mediation in which parties must attend mediation sessions and evaluate foreclosure alternatives in good faith. This law also provides that issues such as reinstatement of the mortgage, modification of the loan and restructuring of the mortgage debt are to be addressed at these mediations. Given the uncertain timeframe related to foreclosure in Maine, the Bank can incur additional legal fees and other costs, such as payment of property taxes and insurance, if the foreclosure process is extended. In addition, the value of the property may further decline if the borrower fails to maintain the property in good order.. Our level of troubled debt restructured (\"TDR\") remains elevated.. Our efforts between 2011 and 2015 to assist homeowners and other borrowers increased our overall level of TDRs. In each case when a loan was modified, Management determined it was in the Bank's best interest to work with the borrower with modified terms rather than to proceed to foreclosure. Once a loan is classified as a TDR, however, it remains classified as a TDR until the balance is fully repaid, whether or not the loan is performing under the modified terms. As of December 31, 2017 there were 62 loans with an outstanding balance of $17.8 million that have been restructured. This compares to 71 loans with a value of $21.5 million as of December 31, 2016.. As of December 31, 2017, 49 loans with an aggregate balance of $16.2 million were performing under the modified terms, four loans with an aggregate balance $444,000 were more than 30 days past due and accruing and nine loans with an aggregate balance of $1.1 million were on nonaccrual. As a percentage of aggregate outstanding balances, 91.1% were performing under the modified terms, 2.5% were more than 30 days past due and accruing and 6.4% were on nonaccrual. Although a large percentage of TDRs continue to be performing, the full collection of principal and interest on some TDRs may not occur, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our net interest income and profitability.. Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, demand for loans, securities and deposits, and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect. • our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits;. • the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities; and. • the average duration of our loans and securities that are collateralized by mortgages.. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore our earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. If interest rates decline, our higher-rate loans and investments may be subject to prepayment risk, which could negatively impact our net interest margin. Conversely, if interest rates increase, our loans and investments may be subject to extension risk, which could negatively impact our net interest margin as well. Any substantial, unexpected or prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk, located elsewhere in this report, for further discussion related to our management of interest rate risk.. The First Bancorp - 2017 Form 10-K - Page  10. The value of our investment portfolio may be negatively affected by changes in interest rates and disruptions in securities markets.. The market for some of the investment securities held in our portfolio has become volatile over the past several years. Volatile market conditions may detrimentally affect the value of these securities due to the perception of heightened credit and liquidity risks. There can be no assurance that the declines in market value associated with these disruptions will not result in other than temporary impairments of these assets, which would lead to accounting charges that could have a material adverse effect on our net income and capital levels. Our mortgage-backed bond portfolio may be subject to extension risk as interest rates rise, extending the average life of the bonds. As of December 31, 2017, we had $300.2 million and $256.6 million in available for sale and held to maturity investment securities, respectively. Numerous factors, including lack of liquidity for re-sales of certain investment securities, absence of reliable pricing information for investment securities, adverse changes in business climate, adverse actions by regulators, or unanticipated changes in the competitive environment could have a negative effect on our investment portfolio in future periods. If an impairment charge is significant enough it could affect the ability of the Bank to renew funding. This could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and the Bank's ability to upstream dividends to the Company and for the Company to then pay dividends to shareholders. It could also negatively impact our regulatory capital ratios and result in our not being classified as \"well-capitalized\" for regulatory purposes.. Illiquidity could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition.. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through traditional deposits, brokered deposit renewals or rollovers, secured or unsecured borrowings, the sale of securities or loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or the economy in general, or could be available only under terms which are unacceptable to us. We rely primarily on commercial and retail deposits and, to a lesser extent, brokered deposit renewals and rollovers, advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston (the \"FHLB\") and other secured and unsecured borrowings to fund our operations. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated, adverse regulatory action against us, changes in market interest rates or increased competition for funding within our market. Disruptions in the capital markets or interest rate changes may make the terms of wholesale funding sources less favorable and may make it difficult to sell securities when needed to provide additional liquidity. In addition, if we fall below the FDIC's thresholds to be considered \"well capitalized\", we will be unable to continue to roll over or renew brokered funds, and the interest rate paid on deposits would be subject to restrictions. As a result, there is a risk that our cost of funding will increase or we will not have sufficient funds to meet our obligations when they become due.. Loss of lower-cost funding sources could lead to margin compression and decrease net interest income.. Checking and savings, NOW, and money market deposit account balances and other forms of customer deposits can decrease when customers perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market, as providing a better risk/return tradeoff. If customers move money out of bank deposits and into other investments, we could lose a relatively low-cost source of funds, increasing our funding costs and reducing our net interest income and net income. Advances from the FHLB are currently a relatively low-cost source of funding. The availability of qualified collateral on the Bank's balance sheet determines the level of advances available from FHLB and a deterioration in quality in the Bank's loan portfolio can adversely impact the availability of this source of funding, which could increase our funding costs and reduce our net interest income.. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us.. Financial institutions in particular have been subject to increased volatility and an overall loss in investor confidence. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services companies are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services companies, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. In addition, many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. Further, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Lack of loan demand may adversely impact net interest income.. Loan demand in the Bank's market area may be limited during periods of weak economic conditions. This could have the greatest impact on the commercial loan portfolio. In addition, in order to reduce the Bank's exposure to interest rate risk, the Bank may sell residential mortgages to the secondary market that have been refinanced by borrowers seeking to take advantage. The First Bancorp - 2017 Form 10-K - Page  11. of lower interest rates. Should this happen, net interest income may be negatively impacted if loans are replaced by lower-yielding investment securities or if the balance sheet is allowed to shrink.. A decline in real estate values in our primary market area could adversely impact results of operations and financial condition.. Most of the Bank's lending is in Mid-Coast and Down East Maine. As a result of this geographic concentration, a significant broad-based deterioration in economic conditions in this area of Northern New England could have a material adverse impact on the quality of the Bank's loan portfolio, and could result in a decline in the demand for our products and services and, accordingly, could negatively impact our results of operations. Such a decline in economic conditions could impair borrowers' ability to pay outstanding principal and interest on loans when due and, consequently, adversely affect the cash flows of our business. The Bank's loan portfolio is largely secured by real estate collateral. A substantial portion of the real and personal property securing the loans in the Bank's portfolio is located in Mid-Coast and Down East Maine. Conditions in the real estate market in which the collateral for the Bank's loans is located strongly influence the level of the Bank's non-performing loans and results of operations.. Our investment management activities are dependent on the value of investment securities which may lead to revenue fluctuations.. First Advisors is the investment management arm of the Bank, operating under trust powers granted by the OCC in the Bank's charter. First Advisors provides trustee, investment management and custody services for individual, municipal and business clients, predominantly in the Bank's market area. First Advisors' revenues are directly tied to the asset values of the investments it manages for clients, and these may be adversely affected by a decline in the market value of these investments caused by normal fluctuations in the bond and stock markets.. We are dependent upon the services of our management team, and if we are unable to retain the services of our management team, our business may suffer.. Our future success and profitability are substantially dependent upon the management and banking abilities of our senior executives. Changes in key personnel may be disruptive to our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We believe that our future results will also depend in part upon our attracting and retaining highly skilled and qualified management. Competition for the best people in most activities in which we are engaged can be intense, and we may not be able to retain or hire the people we want and/or need. In order to attract and retain qualified employees, we must compensate such employees at market levels. Typically, those levels have caused employee compensation to be our greatest expense. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain qualified employees, or do so at increased rates necessary to maintain our competitive position, our performance, including our competitive position, could suffer, and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on us. Although we have incentive compensation plans aimed, in part, at long-term employee retention, the unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could still occur, and such events may have a material adverse effect on us because of the loss of the employee's skills, knowledge of our market, and years of industry experience, and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel for our talented executives and/or relationship managers.. Other restrictions on executive compensation were imposed under the Recovery Act, the Dodd-Frank Act and other legislation or regulations. Our ability to attract and/or retain talented executives and/or relationship managers may be negatively affected by these restrictions or any new executive compensation limits.. Our internal control systems are inherently limited and may fail or be circumvented.. We face the risk that the design of our controls and procedures, including those intended to mitigate the risk of fraud by employees or outsiders, may prove to be inadequate or may be circumvented, thereby causing delays in detection of errors or inaccuracies in data and information. Although Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures, the Company's systems of internal controls, disclosure controls and corporate governance policies and procedures are inherently limited. The inherent limitations of our system of internal controls include the use of judgment in decision-making that can be faulty; breakdowns can occur because of human error; and controls can be circumvented by individual acts or by collusion of two or more people. The design of any system of controls is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and any design may not succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Because of the inherent limitations of a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and may not be detected, which may have an adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations or financial condition. Additionally, any plans for remediation of any identified limitations may be ineffective in improving internal controls.. We continually encounter technological change that may be difficult (costly) to keep up with.. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our. The First Bancorp - 2017 Form 10-K - Page  12. customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Our largest competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry and increased costs due to efforts to keep pace with change, could have a material adverse effect on us.. We are subject to security, transactional and operational risks relating to the use of technology that could damage our reputation and our business.. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business serving both internal and customer constituencies. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan, and other systems. While we have in place policies and procedures, security applications and fraud mitigation applications, designed to prevent or limit the effect of failure, interruption, fraud attack or security breach of or affecting our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions, fraud attacks or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. Fraud attacks targeting customer-controlled devices, plastic payment card terminals, and merchant data collection points provide another source of potential loss, again through no fault of our own. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of information systems used to process customer transactions could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security.. We rely heavily on communications, information systems (both internal and provided by third parties) and the internet to conduct our business. Our business is dependent on our ability to process and monitor large numbers of daily transactions in compliance with legal, regulatory and internal standards and specifications. In addition, a significant portion of our operations relies heavily on the secure processing, storage and transmission of personal and confidential information, such as the personal information of our customers and clients. The risks associated with such operations may increase in the future as we continue to increase mobile payments and other internet-based product offerings and expand our internal usage of web-based products and applications.. In the event of a failure, interruption or breach of our information systems, we may be unable to avoid impact to our customers. Other U.S. financial service institutions and companies have reported breaches in the security of their websites or other systems and have experienced significant distributed denial-of-service attacks, some of which involved sophisticated and targeted attacks intended to disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems. Other potential attacks have attempted to obtain unauthorized access to confidential information or destroy data, often through the introduction of computer viruses or malware, cyberattacks and other means. To date, none of these efforts has had a material adverse effect on our business or operations. Such security attacks can originate from a wide variety of sources, including persons who are involved with organized crime or who may be linked to terrorist organizations or hostile foreign governments. Those same parties may also attempt to fraudulently induce employees, customers or other users of our systems to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our data or funds or those of our customers or clients. Our security systems may not be able to protect our information systems from similar attacks due to the rapid evolution and creation of sophisticated cyberattacks. We are also subject to the risk that our employees may intercept and transmit unauthorized confidential or proprietary information. An interception, misuse or mishandling of personal, confidential or proprietary information being sent to or received from a customer or third party could result in legal liability, remediation costs, regulatory action and reputational harm.. We also have risk related to data or security breaches affecting other companies. Under Federal banking regulations, if a consumer's debit card is compromised, the liability for unauthorized transactions falls primarily to the issuing financial institution, not to the consumer or the company which experienced the data or security breach. In the normal course of business the Bank issues debit cards to its customers, creating potential risk for this type of liability.. We are subject to claims and litigation that may impact our earnings and/or our reputation.. From time to time, customers, vendors or other parties may make claims and take legal action against us. Whether any particular claims and legal actions are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to us, they may result in financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of the Bank and its products and services. Any financial liability or reputational damage could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We maintain reserves for certain claims when deemed appropriate based upon our assessment that a loss is probable, consistent with applicable accounting guidance. At any given time we may have legal actions asserted against us in various stages of litigation. Resolution of a legal action can often take years. We are also involved, from time to time, in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding our business, including, among other things,. The First Bancorp - 2017 Form 10-K - Page  13. accounting and operational matters, certain of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. The number and risk of these investigations and proceedings has increased in recent years with regard to many firms in the financial services industry due to changes to the consumer protection laws provided for by the Dodd-Frank Act, the creation of the CFPB, and the uncertainty as to whether federal preemption of certain state consumer laws remains intact for federally chartered financial institutions like the Bank. A weakening of federal pre-emption would potentially increase our compliance and operational costs and risks since the Bank is a national bank and we would potentially face new state and local regulation and enforcement activity. There have also been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or misconduct by employees in the financial services industry in recent years, and we face the risk that employee misconduct could occur. It is not always possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Any financial liability for which we have not adequately maintained reserves or insurance coverage, and/or any damage to our reputation from such claims and legal actions, could have a material adverse effect on us.. Damage to our reputation could significantly harm our businesses.. Our ability to attract and retain customers, clients, investors and highly-skilled management and employees is impacted by our reputation. Public perception of the financial services industry declined in the aftermath of the most recent downturn in the U.S. economy. We continue to face increased public and regulatory scrutiny resulting from the financial crisis and economic downturn. Significant harm to our reputation can also arise from other sources, including employee misconduct, actual or perceived unethical behavior, litigation or regulatory outcomes, failing to deliver minimum or required standards of service and quality, compliance failures, disclosure of confidential information, and the activities of our clients, customers and counterparties, including vendors. Actions by the financial services industry generally or by certain members or individuals in the industry could also significantly adversely affect our reputation. We could also suffer significant reputational harm if we fail to properly identify and manage potential conflicts of interest. The actual or perceived failure to adequately address conflicts of interest could affect the willingness of clients to deal with us, which could adversely affect our businesses.. Our recent results may not be indicative of our future results.. We may not be able to sustain our historical rate of growth, and may not even be able to grow our business at all. In addition, our recent growth may distort some of our historical financial ratios and statistics. Various factors, such as economic conditions, regulatory and legislative considerations and competition, may also impede our ability to expand our market presence. If we have to experience a significant decrease in our historical rate of growth, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected due to a high percentage of our operating costs being fixed expenses.. The First Bancorp - 2017 Form 10-K - Page  14. Risks Associated With Our Industry. Our business has been and may continue to be adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally and by increased regulation.. Negative developments in the financial services industry resulted in general uncertainty in the financial markets and ultimately led to what is now termed the Great Recession of 2008-2009.  As a consequence of the recession, businesses across a wide range of industries faced serious difficulties due to a decrease in consumer spending, reduced consumer confidence brought on by deflated home values, among other factors, and reduced liquidity in the credit markets.  Unemployment also increased significantly during that period.. As a result of the downturn in economic conditions during that period, many lending institutions, including us, experienced deterioration in the performance of their loans, including construction, land development and land loans, commercial real estate loans, and other commercial and consumer loans (see \"Credit Risk Management and Allowance for Loan Losses\" in ITEM 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations).  Similar future disruptions or negative events in the financial markets may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, leading to increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge-offs and provision for credit losses.  As the severity level of any disruption increases, it is more likely to exacerbate the adverse effects of difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial services industry.. Economic risks are not limited to the United States.. Negative economic events in other parts of the world may have a negative impact on the US economy.  Economic conditions in several European Union (\"EU\") countries remain tenuous, with the possibility of default on their debt remaining an issue with resultant negative impact on fellow EU members.  A severe market reaction to potential EU defaults would likely have a global impact and could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition, results of operations, and ability to meet regulatory requirements.  Great Britain's departure from the EU continues to be negotiated and could create additional economic uncertainty, as could the possible unwinding of the North American Free Trade Agreement.. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in law and regulations.. Bank holding companies and nationally chartered banks operate in a highly regulated environment and are subject to supervision and examination by various regulatory agencies. The cost of compliance with regulatory requirements may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Federal and state laws and regulations govern numerous matters including: changes in the ownership or control of banks and bank holding companies; maintenance of adequate capital and the financial condition of a financial institution; permissible types, amounts and terms of extensions of credit and investments; permissible non-banking activities; the required level of reserves against deposits; and restrictions on dividend payments. These and other restrictions limit the manner in which we may conduct our business and obtain financing. If we fail to meet minimum regulatory capital guidelines and other regulatory requirements, our financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. Our failure to maintain the status of \"well-capitalized\" under our regulatory framework could affect the confidence of our customers in us, thus compromising our competitive position, or could cause our regulators to take corrective or other supervisory action.. The Dodd-Frank Act created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, tightened capital standards and will continue to result in new laws and regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operations.. The Dodd-Frank Act is significantly changing the current bank regulatory structure and affecting the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. Many of the details and the impacts of the Dodd-Frank Act remain unknown. However, it is expected that the legislation and implementing regulations may materially increase our operating and compliance costs.. The CFPB has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection matters that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit \"unfair, deceptive or abusive\" acts and practices. The CFPB's authority to prescribe rules governing the provision of consumer financial products and services could result in rules and regulations that reduce the profitability of such products or services, or impose new disclosure or substantive requirements on us that could increase the cost to us of providing such products and services. The Dodd-Frank Act also weakens the federal preemption rules that have been applicable to national banks and federal savings associations, and gives state attorneys general the ability to enforce federal consumer protection laws, which could increase our operating costs.. Effective July 21, 2011, the Dodd-Frank Act eliminated the federal prohibitions on paying interest on demand deposits, thus allowing businesses to have interest bearing checking accounts, which could result in an increase in our interest expense.. The First Bancorp - 2017 Form 10-K - Page  15. Basel III Capital Rules may limit future activity.. In June 2013 the Federal Reserve Board finalized rules that substantially amended the regulatory risk-based capital rules applicable to us.  These rules implement the Basel III regulatory capital reforms and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act.  Phase-in of the rules started in 2015 and will be completed in 2019.  As of December 31, 2017 we comply with the 2019 standard.. In addition, in a weak economic environment, bank regulators may impose capital requirements that are more stringent than those required by applicable existing regulations.  The application of more stringent capital requirements could result in lower returns on equity, require the raising of more capital, or result in adverse regulatory actions if we are unable to comply with such requirements.  Implementation of changes to asset risk weightings for risk-based capital calculations, items included or deducted in calculating regulatory capital, or additional capital conservation buffers could result in management modifying our business strategy and could limit our ability to make distributions, including paying dividends or repurchasing our shares.. Significant competition in the financial services industry may impact our results.. We face substantial competition in all areas of our operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and have more financial resources than we do. We compete with other providers of financial services such as commercial and savings banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, money market and mutual funds, mortgage companies, asset managers, insurance companies and a wide array of other local, regional and national institutions which offer financial services. Mergers between financial institutions within Maine and in neighboring states have added competitive pressure. If we are unable to compete effectively, we will lose market share and our income generated from loans, deposits, and other financial products will decline.. Risks Associated With Our Common Stock. There may not be a robust trading market for our common stock.. Although our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select market, the trading volume of the common stock has historically not been substantial. For the year ended December 31, 2017, the average monthly trading volume of our common stock was 429,765 shares, or approximately 3.97% of the average number of our outstanding common shares. Due to the limited trading volume in our common stock, the intraday spread between bid and ask prices of the shares can be quite high. There can be no assurance that a more robust, active or economical trading market for our common stock will develop. The market value and liquidity of our common stock may, as a result, be adversely affected.. The price of our common stock may fluctuate.. The price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market constantly changes and recently, given the uncertainty in the financial markets, has fluctuated widely. We expect the market price of our common stock will continue to fluctuate. Holders of our common stock will be subject to the risk of volatility and changes in prices. Our common stock price can fluctuate as a result of many factors which are beyond our control, including:. • quarterly fluctuations in our operating and financial results;. • operating results that vary from the expectations of investors;. • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates;. • events negatively impacting the financial services industry which result in a general decline for the industry;. • new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business;. • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles;. • general domestic economic and market conditions; and. • declines in bank stock prices driven by macro-economic concerns.. In addition, recently the stock market generally has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, and industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends, could also cause our stock price to decrease regardless of our operating results.. The inability to receive dividends from the Bank would negatively affect our ability to pay dividends to shareholders.. The Company is a legal entity separate and distinct from the Bank. With the exception of cash raised from debt and equity issuances, we receive substantially all of our cash flow from dividends from the Bank. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on our equity securities. Federal banking law and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank can pay. For further information on the regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends by the Bank, see \"Supervision and Regulation\" in Item 1. In the event the Bank is unable to pay dividends to the Company or such dividends were to be restricted or reduced, we may not be able to service debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on our equity securities. Our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon the Bank's liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the Bank's creditors.. The First Bancorp - 2017 Form 10-K - Page  16. If we do not manage our capital position strategically, our return on equity could be lower compared to our competitors as a result of our high level of capital.. If we are unable to strategically use our excess capital, or to successfully continue capital management programs, such as stock repurchase programs or quarterly dividends to our shareholders, then our goal of generating a return on average equity that is competitive and increasing earnings per share and book value per share without assuming undue risk, could be delayed or may not be attained. Failure to achieve a competitive return on average equity might decrease investments in our common stock and might cause our common stock to trade at lower prices.. We may issue additional equity securities or engage in other transactions which dilute our book value or affect the priority of the common stock, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. Our Board of Directors may determine from time to time that we need to raise additional capital by issuing additional shares of our common stock or other securities. Except pursuant to the rules of the NASDAQ Stock Market, we are not restricted from issuing additional shares of common stock, including securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of any future offerings, or the prices at which such offerings may be affected. Such offerings could be dilutive to common shareholders or reduce the market price of our common stock. Holders of our common stock are not entitled to preemptive rights or protection against dilution. New investors also may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to, and that adversely affect, our then-current common shareholders. We may attempt to increase our capital resources or, if our or the Bank's capital ratios fall below the required minimums, we could be forced to raise additional capital, by making offerings of debt or preferred equity securities, including medium-term notes, trust preferred securities, senior or subordinated notes and preferred stock. Upon liquidation, holders of our shares of preferred stock and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive distributions of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Our Board of Directors is authorized to issue one or more series of preferred stock from time to time without any action on the part of our shareholders. Our Board of Directors also has the power, without shareholder approval, to set the terms of any such series of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, dividend rights and preferences over our common stock with respect to dividends or upon our dissolution, winding-up and liquidation and other terms. If we issue preferred stock in the future that has a preference over our common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or if we issue preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of our common stock, the rights of holders of our common stock or the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected.. Potential acquisitions may disrupt our business and dilute shareholder value.. Acquiring other banks, businesses, or branches involves various risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including:. • potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the target;. • exposure to potential asset quality issues of the target;. • difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the target;. • potential disruption to our business;. • potential diversion of Management's time and attention;. • the possible loss of key employees and customers of the target;. • difficulty in estimating the value of the assets and liabilities of the target;. • potential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may affect the target.. Merger or acquisition discussions and, in some cases, negotiations may take place and future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity securities may occur at any time. Acquisitions typically involve the payment of a premium over book and market values, and, therefore, some dilution of our tangible book value and net income per common share may occur in connection with any future transaction. Furthermore, failure to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits from an acquisition could have a material adverse effect on us."
