[1] "Item 1A. \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tRisk Factors.. Making or continuing an investment in our common stock involves certain risks that you should carefully consider. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks that may have a material adverse effect on us. Additional risks and uncertainties also could adversely affect our business and results of operations. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected, the market price of your common stock could decline and you could lose all or a part of your investment. Further, to the extent that any of the information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K constitutes forward-looking statements, the risk factors set forth below also are cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf.. If loan losses are greater than anticipated, our earnings may be adversely affected.. As a lender, we are exposed to the risk that customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans may not be sufficient to assure repayment. Credit losses are inherent in the business of making loans and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our credit risk with respect to our real estate and construction loan portfolio relates principally to the creditworthiness of individuals and the value of the real estate serving as security for the repayment of loans, and the credit risk with respect to our commercial and consumer loan portfolio relates principally to the general creditworthiness of businesses and individuals within the local markets in which we operate. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for potential loan losses based on a number of factors. We believe that our allowance for loan losses is adequate. However, if estimates, assumptions or judgments used in calculating this allowance are incorrect, the allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover our actual loan losses. Deterioration of economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, inaccurate management assumptions, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may result in higher levels of nonperforming assets and charge-offs and loan losses in excess of our current allowance for loan losses, requiring us to make material additions to our allowance for loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition and results of operations. The actual amount of future provisions for loan losses cannot be determined at this time and may vary from the amounts of past provisions. In addition, banking regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further charge-offs if the regulators’ judgments are different than those of our management. Material additions to the allowance could materially decrease our net income.. We may be required to increase our allowance for loan losses as a result of a recent change to an accounting standard.. The measure of our allowance for loan losses depends in part on the adoption and interpretation of accounting standards. The Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, recently issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses. This ASU provides a new credit impairment model, the Current Expected Credit Loss, or CECL model, which will apply to us in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, though we may choose, or may be encouraged by our regulators, to adopt CECL in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018. CECL will require financial institutions to estimate and develop a provision for credit losses at origination for the lifetime of the loan, as opposed to reserving for incurred or probable losses up to the balance sheet date. Under the CECL model, credit deterioration would be reflected in the income statement in the period of origination or acquisition of the loan, with changes in expected credit losses due to further credit deterioration or improvement reflected in the periods in which the expectation changes. Accordingly, implementation of the CECL model will change our current method of providing allowances for loan losses, which would likely require us to increase our allowance for loan losses. Moreover, the CECL model likely would create more volatility in our level of allowance for loan losses. A material increase in our level of allowance for loan losses could adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition and results of operations.. Our business and operations may be materially adversely affected by weak economic conditions.. Our business and operations, which primarily consist of banking activities, including lending money to customers in the form of loans and borrowing money from customers in the form of deposits, are sensitive to general business and economic conditions in the United States generally, and in our region in particular. The economic conditions in our local markets may be different from the economic conditions in the United States as a whole. If economic conditions in the United States or any of our markets weaken, our growth and profitability from our operations could be constrained. The current economic environment is characterized by interest rates near historically low levels, which impacts our ability to attract deposits and to generate attractive earnings through our loan and investment portfolios. All of these factors can individually or in the aggregate be detrimental to our business, and the interplay between these factors can be complex and unpredictable. Unfavorable market conditions can result in a deterioration in the credit quality of our borrowers and the demand for our products and services, an increase in the number of delinquencies, defaults and charge-offs, additional provisions for loan losses, a decline in the value of our collateral, and an overall material adverse effect on the quality of our loan portfolio.. The banking industry is highly competitive, which could result in loss of market share and adversely affect our business.. We encounter strong competition in making loans, acquiring deposits and attracting customers for investment services. We compete with commercial banks, online banks, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, investment banking companies, brokerage firms and other financial intermediaries operating in Alabama and elsewhere in various segments of the financial services market. Many of these competitors, some of which are affiliated with large bank holding companies, have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we do. In addition, many of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive federal regulations that govern bank holding companies and federally insured banks, and, as a result, may be able to offer certain products and services at a lower cost than the we are able to offer, which could adversely affect our business.. 8. We are subject to extensive governmental regulation, and the costs of complying with such regulation could have an adverse impact on our operations.. The financial services industry is extensively regulated and supervised under both federal and state law. We are subject to the supervision and regulation of the Federal Reserve, the FDIC and the ASBD. These regulations are intended primarily to protect depositors, the public and the FDIC’s Deposit Insurance Fund, rather than shareholders. Additionally, we are subject to supervision, regulation and examination by other regulatory authorities, such as the SEC and state securities and insurance regulators. If, as a result of an examination, the Federal Reserve, the FDIC or the ASBD were to determine that our financial condition, capital resources, asset quality, earnings prospects, management, liquidity or other aspects of any of our operations had become unsatisfactory, or that we were in violation of any law or regulation, they may take a number of different remedial actions as they deem appropriate. These actions include the power to require us to remediate any such adverse examination findings. We are also subject to changes in federal and state laws, as well as regulations and governmental policies, income tax laws and accounting principles. Regulations affecting banks and other financial institutions are undergoing continuous change, and the ultimate effect of such changes cannot be predicted. Regulations and laws may be modified at any time, and new legislation may be enacted that could affect us. We cannot assure you that any changes in regulations or new laws will not adversely affect our performance or consolidated results of operations. Our regulatory framework is discussed in greater detail under “Item 1. Business – Supervision and Regulation.”. We are subject to laws regarding the privacy, information security and protection of personal information, and any violation of these laws or unauthorized disclosure of such information could damage our reputation and otherwise adversely affect our operations and financial condition.. Our business requires the collection and retention of large volumes of customer data, including personally identifiable information in various information systems that we maintain and in those maintained by third parties with whom we contract to provide data services. We also maintain important internal data, such as personally identifiable information about our employees and information relating to our operations. We are subject to complex and evolving laws and regulations governing the privacy and protection of personal information of individuals (including customers, employees, suppliers and other third parties). For example, our business is subject to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, which, among other things: (1) imposes certain limitations on our ability to share nonpublic personal information about our customers with nonaffiliated third parties; (2) requires us to provide certain disclosures to customers about our information collection, sharing and security practices and to afford customers the right to “opt out” of any information sharing by us with nonaffiliated third parties (with certain exceptions); and (3) requires us to develop, implement and maintain a written comprehensive information security program containing appropriate safeguards based on our size and complexity, the nature and scope of our activities, and the sensitivity of customer information we process, as well as plans for responding to data security breaches. Various state and federal banking regulators and state legislatures have also enacted data security breach notification requirements with varying levels of individual, consumer, regulatory or law enforcement notification in the event of a security breach. Ensuring that our collection, use, transfer and storage of personal information complies with all applicable laws and regulations can increase our costs. Furthermore, we may not be able to ensure that all of our clients, suppliers, counterparties and other third parties have appropriate controls in place to protect the confidentiality of the information that they exchange with us, particularly where such information is transmitted by electronic means. If personal, confidential or proprietary information of customers or others were to be mishandled or misused (in situations where, for example, such information was erroneously provided to unauthorized persons, or where such information was intercepted or otherwise compromised by third parties), we could be exposed to litigation or regulatory sanctions under applicable laws and regulations. Concerns about the effectiveness of our measures to safeguard personal information could cause us to lose customers or potential customers for our products and services and thereby reduce our revenues. Accordingly, any failure or perceived failure to comply with applicable privacy or data protection laws and regulations may subject us to inquiries, examinations and investigations that could result in requirements to modify or cease certain operations or practices or in significant liabilities, fines or penalties, and could damage our reputation and otherwise adversely affect our consolidated operations and financial condition.. Our FDIC deposit insurance premiums and assessments may increase and thereby adversely affect our financial results.. The Bank’s deposits are insured by the FDIC up to legal limits, and, accordingly, the Bank is subject to periodic insurance assessments by the FDIC. The Bank’s regular assessments are determined by its risk classification, which is based on its regulatory capital levels and the level of supervisory concern that it poses. Numerous bank failures during the financial crisis and increases in the statutory deposit insurance limits increased resolution costs to the FDIC and put significant pressure on the Deposit Insurance Fund. The FDIC has authority to increase insurance assessments, and any significant increase in insurance assessments would likely have an adverse effect on us and thereby negatively impact our consolidated results of operations.. We may not be able to maintain consistent growth, earnings or profitability.. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to grow and to remain profitable in future periods, or, if profitable, that our overall earnings will remain consistent with our prior results of operations, or increase in the future. Our growth in recent years has been driven primarily by a strong commercial loan market and real estate loan market in certain of our markets. A downturn in economic conditions in our markets, heightened competition from other financial services providers, an inability to retain or grow our core deposit base, regulatory and legislative considerations, and failure to attract and retain high-performing talent, among other factors, could limit our ability to grow our assets or increase our profitability to the same extent as in recent periods. Sustainable growth requires that we manage our risks by following prudent loan underwriting standards, balancing loan and deposit growth without materially increasing interest rate risk or compressing our net interest margin, maintaining adequate capital, hiring and retaining qualified employees and successfully implementing our strategic initiatives. A failure to sustain our recent rate of growth or adequately manage the factors that have contributed to our growth or successfully enter new markets could have a material adverse effect on our earnings and profitability and, therefore on our business, consolidated financial condition and results of operations.. 9. Rapid and significant changes in market interest rates may adversely affect our performance.. Most of our assets and liabilities are monetary in nature and are therefore subject to significant risks from changes in interest rates. Our profitability depends to a large extent on net interest income, and changes in interest rates can impact our net interest income as well as the valuation of our assets and liabilities. Our consolidated results of operations are affected by changes in interest rates and our ability to manage interest rate risks. Changes in market interest rates, changes in the relationships between short-term and long-term market interest rates and changes in the relationships between different interest rate indices can affect the interest rates charged on interest-earning assets differently than the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities. These differences could result in an increase in interest expense relative to interest income or a decrease in our interest rate spread. For a more detailed discussion of these risks and our management strategies for these risks, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Our net interest margin depends on many factors that are partly or completely out of our control, including competition, federal economic monetary and fiscal policies and general economic conditions. Despite the implementation of strategies to manage interest rate risks, changes in interest rates may have a material adverse impact on our profitability.. The performance of our investment portfolio is subject to fluctuations due to changes in interest rates and market conditions.. Changes in interest rates can negatively affect the performance of most of our investments. Interest rate volatility can reduce gains or create losses in our investment portfolios. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. Fluctuations in interest rates affect returns on, and the market value of, investment securities. The fair market value of the securities in our portfolio and the investment income from these securities also fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions. In addition, actual net investment income and/or cash flows from investments that carry prepayment risk, such as mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities, may differ from those anticipated at the time of investment as a result of interest rate fluctuations. The potential effect of these factors is heightened due to the current conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally.. Changes in the policies of monetary authorities and other government action could adversely affect our profitability.. Our consolidated results of operations are affected by credit policies of monetary authorities, particularly the Federal Reserve. The instruments of monetary policy employed by the Federal Reserve include open market operations in United States government securities, changes in the discount rate or the federal funds rate on bank borrowings and changes in reserve requirements against bank deposits. In view of changing conditions in the national economy and in the money markets, we cannot predict future changes in interest rates, deposit levels, loan demand or our business and earnings. Furthermore, the actions of the United States government and other governments in responding to such conditions may result in currency fluctuations, exchange controls, market disruption and other adverse effects.. Our profitability and liquidity may be affected by changes in economic conditions in the areas in which our operations and loans are concentrated.. Our success depends to a certain extent on the general economic conditions of the geographic markets that we serve in Alabama and Mississippi. Local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on our commercial, real estate and construction loans, the ability of borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. Adverse changes in the economic conditions of the southeastern United States in general or any one or more of these local markets could negatively impact the financial results of our banking operations and have a negative effect on our profitability. For example, significant unemployment in the timber industry could cause widespread economic distress in many of the areas that we serve. Similar trends in other industries or sectors that we serve could have a significant negative effect on our profitability.. We cannot guarantee that we will pay dividends in the future.. Dividends from the Bank are Bancshares’ primary source of funds for the payment of dividends to its shareholders, and there are various legal and regulatory limits regarding the extent to which the Bank may pay dividends or otherwise supply funds to Bancshares. The ability of both the Bank and Bancshares to pay dividends will continue to be subject to and limited by the results of operations of the Bank and by certain legal and regulatory restrictions. Further, any lenders making loans to Bancshares or the Bank may impose financial covenants that may be more restrictive than the legal and regulatory requirements with respect to the payment of dividends. There can be no assurance as to whether or when Bancshares may pay dividends to its shareholders.. Extreme weather could cause a disruption in our operations, which could have an adverse impact on our profitability.. Some of our operations are located in areas near the Gulf of Mexico, a region that is susceptible to hurricanes and other forms of extreme weather. Such weather events could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our overall results of operations. Further, a hurricane, tornado or other extreme weather event in any of our market areas could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to timely repay their loans and may adversely impact the value of collateral that we hold.. 10. Technological changes in the banking and financial services industries may negatively impact our results of operations and our ability to compete.. The banking and financial services industries are undergoing rapid changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to enhancing the level of service provided to customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. To remain competitive, financial institutions must continuously evaluate changing customer preferences with respect to emerging technologies and develop plans to address such changes in the most cost-effective manner possible. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to use technology to offer products and services that provide convenience to customers and create additional efficiencies in operations, and our failure to do so could negatively impact our business. Additionally, our competitors may have greater resources to invest in technological improvements than we do, and we may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services, which could reduce our ability to effectively compete.. Our information systems may experience a failure or interruption.. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure or interruption in the operation of these systems could impair or prevent the effective operation of our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, lending or other functions. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of a failure or interruption in the operation of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures or interruptions will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures or interruptions impacting our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, and expose us to additional regulatory scrutiny, civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. We use information technology in our operations and offer online banking services to our customers, and unauthorized access to our customers’ confidential or proprietary information as a result of a cyber-attack or otherwise could expose us to reputational harm and litigation and adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers.. Information security risks for financial institutions have generally increased in recent years, in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists, activists and other external parties. We are under continuous threat of loss due to hacking and cyber-attacks, especially as we continue to expand customer capabilities to utilize the internet and other remote channels to transact business. Our risk and exposure to these matters remains heightened because of the evolving nature and complexity of these threats from cybercriminals and hackers, our plans to continue to provide internet banking channels, and our plans to develop additional remote connectivity solutions to serve our customers. Therefore, the secure processing, transmission and storage of information in connection with our online banking services are critical elements of our operations. However, our network could be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses and other malware, phishing schemes or other security failures. In addition, our customers may use personal smartphones, tablet PCs or other mobile devices that are beyond our control systems in order to access our products and services. Our technologies, systems and networks, and our customers’ devices, may become the target of cyber-attacks, electronic fraud or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, use, loss or destruction of our or our customers’ confidential, proprietary and other information, or otherwise disrupt our or our customers’ or other third parties’ business operations. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to spend significant capital and other resources to protect against these threats or to alleviate or investigate problems caused by such threats. To the extent that our activities or the activities of our customers involve the processing, storage or transmission of confidential customer information, any breaches or unauthorized access to such information could present significant regulatory costs and expose us to litigation and other possible liabilities. Any inability to prevent these types of security threats could also cause existing customers to lose confidence in our systems and could adversely affect our reputation and ability to generate deposits. While we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber-attacks or other information security breaches to date, we may suffer such losses in the future. The occurrence of any cyber-attack or information security breach could result in potential legal liability, reputational harm, damage to our competitive position and the disruption of our operations, all of which could adversely affect our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. We depend on outside third parties for the processing and handling of our records and data, which exposes us to additional risk for cybersecurity breaches and regulatory action.. We rely on software and internet-based platforms developed by third-party vendors to process various transactions. In some cases, we have contracted with third parties to run their proprietary software on our behalf. These systems include, but are not limited to, general ledger, payroll, employee benefits, loan and deposit processing and securities portfolio accounting. If these third-party service providers experience difficulties, are subject to cybersecurity breaches or terminate their services, and we are unable to replace them with other service providers on a timely basis, our operations could be interrupted. If an interruption were to continue for a significant period of time, our business, consolidated financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. While we perform a review of controls instituted by the applicable vendors over these programs in accordance with industry standards and perform our own testing of user controls, we must rely on the continued maintenance of controls by these third-party vendors, including safeguards over the security of customer data. In addition, we maintain, or contract with third parties to maintain, daily backups of key processing outputs in the event of a failure on the part of any of these systems. Nonetheless, we may incur a temporary disruption in our ability to conduct business or process transactions, or damage to our reputation, if the third-party vendor fails to adequately maintain internal controls or institute necessary changes to systems. Such a disruption or breach of security could have a material adverse effect on our business.. In addition, federal regulators have issued guidance outlining their expectations for third-party service provider oversight and monitoring by financial institutions. Any failure to adequately oversee the actions of our third-party service providers could result in regulatory actions against us, which could adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition and results of operations.. 11. We face a risk of noncompliance and enforcement action under the Bank Secrecy Act and other anti-money laundering statutes and regulations.. The Bank Secrecy Act of 1970, the USA PATRIOT Act and other laws and regulations require financial institutions, among other duties, to institute and maintain an effective anti-money laundering program and to file reports such as suspicious activity reports and currency transaction reports. We are required to comply with these and other anti-money laundering requirements. Our federal and state banking regulators, the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network and other government agencies are authorized to impose significant civil money penalties for violations of anti-money laundering requirements. We are also subject to increased scrutiny with respect to our compliance with the regulations issued and enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control. If our program is deemed deficient, we could be subject to liability, including fines, civil money penalties and other regulatory actions, which may include restrictions on our business operations and our ability to pay dividends, restrictions on mergers and acquisitions activity, restrictions on expansion, and restrictions on entering new business lines. Failure to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could also have significant reputational consequences for us. Any of these circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. The internal controls that we have implemented to mitigate risks inherent to the business of banking might fail or be circumvented.. Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls and procedures that are designed to manage the various risks in our business, including credit risk, operational risk, financial risk, compliance risk and interest rate risk. No system of controls, however well-designed and operated, can provide absolute assurance that the objectives of the system will be met. If such a system fails or is circumvented, there could be a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Securities issued by us, including our common stock, are not insured.. Securities issued by us, including our common stock, are not savings or deposit accounts or other obligations of any bank and are not insured by the Deposit Insurance Fund maintained by the FDIC or by any other governmental agency or instrumentality, or any private insurer, and are subject to investment risk, including the possible loss of principal.. Future issuances of additional securities by us could result in dilution of your ownership.. We may decide from time to time to issue additional securities in order to raise capital, support growth or fund acquisitions. Further, we may issue stock options or other stock grants to retain and motivate employees. Such issuances of securities by us would dilute the respective ownership interests of our shareholders.. Our common stock price could be volatile, which could result in losses for individual shareholders.. The market price of our common stock may be subject to significant fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, including, but not limited to:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tgeneral economic, business and political conditions;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanging market conditions in the broader stock market in general, or in the financial services industry in particular;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmonetary and fiscal policies, laws and regulations and other activities of the government, agencies and similar organizations;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tactual or anticipated variations in our operating results, financial condition or asset quality;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour failure to meet analyst predictions and projections;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcollectability of loans;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcost and other effects of legal and administrative cases and proceedings, claims, settlements and judgments;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadditions or departures of key personnel; \t\t\t \t\t  \t\t\t  \t\t\t  \t\t  \t\t\t<U+25CF> \t\t\ttrades of large blocks of our stock;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tannouncements of innovations or new services by us or our competitors;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfuture sales of our common stock or other securities; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tother events or factors, many of which are beyond our control.. Due to these factors, you may not be able to sell your stock at or above the price you paid for it, which could result in substantial losses.. 12. Bancshares’ liquidity is subject to various regulatory restrictions applicable to its subsidiaries.. There are various regulatory restrictions on the ability of Bancshares’ subsidiaries to pay dividends or to make other payments to Bancshares. In addition, Bancshares’ right to participate in any distribution of assets of any of its subsidiaries upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or otherwise will be subject to the prior claims of creditors of that subsidiary, except to the extent that any of Bancshares’ claims as a creditor of such subsidiary may be recognized.. Our performance and results of operations depend in part on the soundness of other financial institutions.. Our ability to engage in routine investment and banking transactions, as well as the quality and value of our investments in equity securities and obligations of other financial institutions, could be adversely affected by the actions, financial condition and profitability of such other financial institutions with which we transact, including, without limitation, the FHLBA and our correspondent banks. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of shared credits, trading, clearing, counterparty and other relationships. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial institutions, or the financial services industry generally, could lead to market-wide liquidity problems and losses of depositor, creditor or counterparty confidence in certain institutions, and could lead to losses or defaults by other institutions. Any defaults by, or failures of, the institutions with whom we transact could adversely affect our debt and equity holdings in such other institutions, our participation interests in loans originated by other institutions, and our business, including our liquidity, consolidated financial condition and earnings.. Liquidity risks could affect our operations and jeopardize our financial condition.. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the repayment or sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our funding sources include federal funds, purchased securities sold under repurchase agreements, core and non-core deposits, and short- and long-term debt. We maintain a portfolio of securities that can be used as a source of liquidity. Other sources of liquidity are available should they be needed, such as through our acquisition of additional non-core deposits. Bancshares may be able, depending on market conditions, to issue and sell debt securities and preferred or common equity securities in public or private transactions. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance or capitalize our activities or on acceptable terms could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general, such as further disruption in the financial markets, negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry, deterioration within the credit markets, or the financial condition, liquidity or profitability of the financial institutions with which we transact.. We depend on the services of our management team and board of directors, and the unexpected loss of key officers or directors may adversely affect our operations.. A departure of any of our executive officers, other key personnel or directors could adversely affect our operations. The community involvement of our executive officers and directors and our directors’ diverse and extensive business relationships are important to our success. A material change in the composition of our management team or board of directors could cause our business to suffer.. We may not realize the full expected benefit of our significant deferred income tax assets.. At December 31, 2017, we had gross deferred tax assets of $6.0 million. Our ability to realize our deferred tax assets is based on the extent to which we generate future taxable income and on prevailing corporate income tax rates, and we cannot provide any assurance as to when and to what extent we will generate sufficient future taxable income to realize our deferred tax assets, whether in whole or in any part. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (“Tax Reform”) was enacted into law. While we believe that the full impact of Tax Reform on our business may not be fully known for some time, its reduction of the federal corporate income tax rate to 21% required us to record a one-time, non-cash charge of approximately $2.5 million to our provision for income taxes in the fourth quarter of 2017. The charge is solely due to the accounting re-measurement of our deferred tax assets based on the lower income tax rate. While we believe that Tax Reform will not impact the ability of our deferred tax assets, as re-measured, to reduce the amount of cash to be paid in federal income taxes in 2018 and beyond, any future lowering of corporate income tax rates and/or adjustment in the treatment of deferred tax assets could impact the realization as well as the value of our deferred tax assets in our consolidated balance sheets, and these impacts could be material and adverse. Further, we have filed our tax returns based on certain filing positions that we believe are appropriate. Should the applicable taxing authorities disagree with these positions, we may owe additional taxes."                                           
