[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. Our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows can be impacted by a number of factors, including but not limited to those set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results and other forward-looking statements that we make from time to time in our news releases, annual reports and other written communications, as well as oral forward-looking statements, and other statements made from time to time by our representatives.. Our business faces unpredictable economic conditions, which could have an adverse effect on us.. General economic conditions impact the banking industry. The credit quality of our loan portfolio necessarily reflects, among other things, the general economic conditions in the areas in which we conduct our business. Our continued financial success depends somewhat on factors beyond our control, including:. <U+0095>   general economic conditions, including national and local real estate markets and the price of oil and gas and other commodity prices;. <U+0095>   the supply of and demand for investable funds;. <U+0095>   demand for loans and access to credit;. <U+0095>   interest rates; and. <U+0095>   federal, state and local laws affecting these matters.. Any substantial deterioration in any of the foregoing conditions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity, which would likely adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. Our business is concentrated in Texas and a downturn in the economy of Texas may adversely affect our business.. Our network of bank regions is concentrated in Texas, primarily in the Central, North Central, Southeast and Western regions of the state. Most of our customers and revenue are derived from this area. These economies include dynamic centers of higher education, agriculture, energy and natural resources, retail, military, healthcare, tourism, retirement living, manufacturing and distribution. Because we generally do not derive revenue or customers from other parts of the state or nation, our business and operations are dependent on economic conditions in our Texas markets. Any significant decline in one or more segments of the local economies could adversely affect our business, revenue, operations and properties.. The significant decline and volatility in oil and gas prices has resulted in uncertainty about the Texas economy. While we consider our exposure to credits related to the oil and gas industry to not be significant, at approximately 1.72% of total loans as of December 31, 2017, should the price of oil and gas decline further and/or remain at the current low price for an extended period, the general economic conditions in our Texas markets could be negatively affected, which could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our Company lends primarily to small to medium-sized businesses that may have fewer resources to weather a downturn in the economy, which could adversely impact the Company's operating results.. The Company makes loans to privately-owned businesses, many of which are considered to be small to medium-sized businesses. Small to medium-sized businesses frequently have smaller market share than their competition, may be more vulnerable to economic downturns, often need additional capital to expand or compete and may experience more volatility in operating results. Any one or more of these factors may impair the borrower's ability to repay a loan. In addition, the success of a small to medium-sized businesses often depends on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons, and the death, disability or resignation of one or more of these persons could have adverse impact on the business and its ability to repay our loans. Economic downturns, a sustained decline in commodity prices and other events that could negatively impact the businesses could cause the Company to incur credit losses that could negatively affect the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. 18. Table of Contents. In our business, we must effectively manage our credit risk.. As a lender, we are exposed to the risk that our loan customers may not repay their loans according to the terms of these loans and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to fully compensate us for the outstanding balance of the loan plus the costs to dispose of the collateral. We may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the diversification by industry of our commercial loan portfolio, the amount of nonperforming loans and related collateral, the volume, growth and composition of our loan portfolio, the effects on the loan portfolio of current economic indicators and their probable impact on borrowers and the evaluation of our loan portfolio through our internal loan review process and other relevant factors.. We maintain an allowance for credit losses, which is an allowance established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense that represents management's best estimate of probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio. Additional credit losses will likely occur in the future and may occur at a rate greater than we have experienced to date. In determining the amount of the allowance, we rely on an analysis of our loan portfolio, our experience and our evaluation of general economic conditions. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our current allowance may not be sufficient and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in our loan portfolio. Material additions to the allowance could materially decrease our net income.. In addition, banking regulators periodically review our allowance for credit losses and may require us to increase our provision for credit losses or recognize further charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of our management. Any increase in our allowance for credit losses or charge-offs as required by these regulatory agencies could have a material negative effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity.. Hurricanes, extended drought conditions, severe weather and natural disasters could significantly impact the Company's business.. Hurricanes, extended drought conditions, severe weather and natural disasters and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on the Company's ability to conduct business. In late August 2017 and continuing into the fourth quarter of 2017, Houston and the surrounding area around the Gulf Coast were significantly affected by Hurricane Harvey. Our Orange and Conroe regions of the Company are in these areas and were impacted by the severe winds and floods. See Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations beginning on page 33 for specific information of the impact of Hurricane Harvey on our Company. Such events affect the stability of the Company's deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of the collateral securing our loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause the Company to incur additional expenses. The occurrence of any such event in the future could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, which in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and result of operations.. Changes in economic conditions could cause an increase in delinquencies and non-performing assets, including loan charge-offs, which could depress our net income and growth.. Our loan portfolio includes many real estate secured loans, demand for which may decrease during economic downturns as a result of, among other things, an increase in unemployment, a decrease in real estate values and a slowdown in housing. If we see negative economic conditions develop in the United States as a whole or in the portions of Texas that we serve, we could experience higher delinquencies and loan charge-offs, which would reduce our net income and adversely affect our financial condition. Furthermore, to the extent that real estate collateral is obtained through foreclosure, the costs of holding and marketing the real estate collateral, as well as the ultimate values obtained from disposition, could reduce our earnings and adversely affect our financial condition.. 19. Table of Contents. The value of real estate collateral may fluctuate significantly resulting in an under-collateralized loan portfolio.. The market value of real estate, particularly real estate held for investment, can fluctuate significantly in a short period of time as a result of market conditions in the geographic area in which the real estate is located. If the value of the real estate serving as collateral for our loan portfolio were to decline materially, a significant part of our loan portfolio could become under-collateralized. If the loans that are collateralized by real estate become troubled during a time when market conditions are declining or have declined, then, in the event of foreclosure, we may not be able to realize the amount of collateral that we anticipated at the time of originating the loan. This could have a material adverse effect on our provision for loan losses and our operating results and financial condition.. New lines of business or new products and services may subject the Company to additional risks.. From time to time, the Company may implement new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. In developing and marketing new lines of business and/or products and services the Company may invest significant time and resources. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business or a new product or service. If we are unable to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business or new products or services, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and result of operations.. We are subject to environmental liability risk associated with lending activities.. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, we may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property's value or limit our ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. Environmental reviews of real property before initiating foreclosure actions may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties.. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, we must rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports and other financial information. We also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports or other financial information could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The repeal of prohibitions on paying interest on demand deposits could increase our interest expense.. Effective July 2011, all federal prohibitions on financial institutions paying interest on demand deposit accounts were repealed as part of the Dodd-Frank Act. As a result, some financial institutions have commenced and are considering offering interest on demand deposits to compete for customers. If interest rates begin to rise, our interest expense could increase and our net interest margin could decrease if we begin offering interest on demand deposits to maintain current customers or attract new customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We do business with other financial institutions that could experience financial difficulty.. We do business through the purchase and sale of Federal funds, check clearing and through the purchase and sale of loan participations with other financial institutions. Because these financial institutions have many risks, as do we, we could be adversely affected should one of these financial institutions experience significant financial difficulties or fail to comply with our agreements with them.. 20. Table of Contents. If we are unable to continue to originate residential real estate loans and sell them into the secondary market for a profit, our earnings could decrease.. We derive a portion of our noninterest income from the origination of residential real estate loans and the subsequent sale of such loans into the secondary market. If we are unable to continue to originate and sell residential real estate loans at historical or greater levels, our residential real estate loan volume would decrease, which could decrease our earnings. A rising interest rate environment, general economic conditions or other factors beyond our control could adversely affect our ability to originate residential real estate loans. We also are experiencing an increase in regulations and compliance requirements related to mortgage loan originations necessitating technology upgrades and other changes. If new regulations continue to increase and we are unable to make technology upgrades, our ability to originate mortgage loans will be reduced or eliminated. Additionally, we sell a large portion of our residential real estate loans to third party investors, and rising interest rates could negatively affect our ability to generate suitable profits on the sale of such loans. If interest rates increase after we originate the loans, our ability to market those loans is impaired as the profitability on the loans decreases. These fluctuations can have an adverse effect on the revenue we generate from residential real estate loans and in certain instances, could result in a loss on the sale of the loans.. Further, for the mortgage loans we sell in the secondary market, the mortgage loan sales contracts contain indemnification clauses should the loans default, generally in the first sixty to ninety days, or if documentation is determined not to be in compliance with regulations. While the Company's historic losses as a result of these indemnities have been insignificant, we could be required to repurchase the mortgage loans or reimburse the purchaser of our loans for losses incurred. Both of these situations could have an adverse effect on the profitability of our mortgage loan activities and negatively impact our net income.. Difficult or changes in market conditions could adversely affect the financial services industry.. The financial markets have experienced volatility over the past several years. In some cases, the financial markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain companies without regard to those companies' underlying financial strength. If financial market volatility worsens, or there are disruptions in these financial markets, including disruptions to the United States banking systems, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect on our ability to access capital and our business, financial condition and result of operations could be adversely impacted.. We may need to raise additional capital and such funds may not be available when needed.. We may need to raise additional capital in the future to provide us with sufficient capital resources to meet our commitments and business needs, particularly if our asset quality or earnings were to deteriorate significantly. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on, among other things, conditions in the capital and financial markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and our financial performance. Economic conditions and the loss of confidence in financial institutions may increase our cost of funding and limit access to certain customary sources of capital, other financial institution borrowings and borrowings from the discount window of the Federal Reserve. Any occurrence that may limit our access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of other financial institutions, or counterparties participating in the capital markets, may adversely affect our costs and our ability to raise capital. An inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms when needed could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We may be subject to more stringent capital and liquidity requirements which would adversely affect our net income and future growth.. On July 2, 2013, the Federal Reserve Board, and on July 9, 2013, the FDIC and OCC, adopted a final rule that implements the Basel III changes to the international regulatory capital framework and revises the U.S. risk-based and leverage capital requirements for U.S. banking organizations to strengthen identified areas of weakness in capital rules and to address relevant provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act.. 21. Table of Contents. The final rule established a stricter regulatory capital framework that requires banking organizations to hold more and higher-quality capital to act as a financial cushion to absorb losses and help banking organizations better withstand periods of financial stress. The final rule increased capital ratios for all banking organizations and introduced a \"capital conservation buffer\" which is in addition to each capital ratio. If a banking organization dips into its capital conservation buffer, it may be restricted in its ability to pay dividends and discretionary bonus payments to its executive officers. The final rule assigned a higher risk weight (150%) to exposures that are more than 90 days past due or are on nonaccrual status and to certain commercial real estate facilities that finance the acquisition, development or construction of real property. The final rule also required unrealized gains and losses on certain \"available-for-sale\" securities holdings to be included for purposes of calculating regulatory capital requirements unless a one-time opt-out is exercised. We exercised this opt-out right in our March 31, 2015 quarterly financial filing. The final rule also included changes in what constitutes regulatory capital, some of which are subject to a two-year transition period. These changes included the phasing-out of certain instruments as qualifying capital. In addition, Tier 2 capital is no longer limited to the amount of Tier 1 capital included in total capital. Mortgage servicing rights, certain deferred tax assets and investments in unconsolidated subsidiaries over designated percentages of common stock are required to be deducted from capital, subject to a two-year transition period.. The final rule became effective for us on January 1, 2015. As of December 31, 2017, we met all of these new requirements, including the full capital conservation buffer.. Although we currently cannot predict the specific impact and long-term effects that Basel III will have on our Company and the banking industry more generally, the Company will be required to maintain higher regulatory capital levels which could impact our operations, net income and ability to grow. Furthermore, the Company's failure to comply with the minimum capital requirements could result in our regulators taking formal or informal actions against us which could restrict our future growth or operations.. The trust wealth management fees we receive may decrease as a result of poor investment performance, in either relative or absolute terms, which could decrease our revenues and net earnings.. Our trust company subsidiary derives its revenues primarily from investment management fees based on assets under management. Our ability to maintain or increase assets under management is subject to a number of factors, including investors' perception of our past performance, in either relative or absolute terms, market and economic conditions, including changes in oil and gas prices, and competition from investment management companies. Financial markets are affected by many factors, all of which are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, including changes in oil and gas prices; securities market conditions; the level and volatility of interest rates and equity prices; competitive conditions; liquidity of global markets; international and regional political conditions; regulatory and legislative developments; monetary and fiscal policy; investor sentiment; availability and cost of capital; technological changes and events; outcome of legal proceedings; changes in currency values; inflation; credit ratings; and the size, volume and timing of transactions. A decline in the fair value of the assets under management, caused by a decline in general economic conditions, would decrease our wealth management fee income.. Investment performance is one of the most important factors in retaining existing clients and competing for new wealth management clients. Poor investment performance could reduce our revenues and impair our growth in the following ways:. <U+0095>   existing clients may withdraw funds from our wealth management business in favor of better performing. products;. <U+0095>   asset-based management fees could decline from a decrease in assets under management;. <U+0095>   our ability to attract funds from existing and new clients might diminish; and. <U+0095>   our wealth managers and investment advisors may depart, to join a competitor or otherwise.. 22. Table of Contents. Even when market conditions are generally favorable, our investment performance may be adversely affected by the investment style of our wealth management and investment advisors and the particular investments that they make. To the extent our future investment performance is perceived to be poor in either relative or absolute terms, the revenues and profitability of our wealth management business will likely be reduced and our ability to attract new clients will likely be impaired. As such, fluctuations in the equity and debt markets can have a direct impact upon our net earnings.. Certain of our investment advisory and wealth management contracts are subject to termination on short notice, and termination of a significant number of investment advisory contracts could have a material adverse impact on our revenue.. Certain of our investment advisory and wealth management clients can terminate, with little or no notice, their relationships with us, reduce their aggregate assets under management, or shift their funds to other types of accounts with different rate structures for any number of reasons, including investment performance, changes in prevailing interest rates, inflation, changes in investment preferences of clients, changes in our reputation in the marketplace, change in management or control of clients, loss of key investment management personnel and financial market performance. We cannot be certain that our trust company subsidiary will be able to retain all of its clients. If its clients terminate their investment advisory and wealth management contracts, our trust company subsidiary, and consequently we, could lose a substantial portion of our revenues.. We are subject to possible claims and litigation pertaining to fiduciary responsibility.. From time to time, customers could make claims and take legal action pertaining to our performance of our fiduciary responsibilities. Whether customer claims and legal action related to our performance of our fiduciary responsibilities are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to us, they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect our market perception of our products and services as well as impact customer demand for those products and services. Any financial liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our business is subject to significant government regulation.. We operate in a highly-regulated environment and are subject to supervision and regulation by a number of governmental regulatory agencies, including the Texas Department of Banking, the Federal Reserve Board, the OCC, and the FDIC. Regulations adopted by these agencies, which are generally intended to provide protection for depositors and customers rather than for the benefit of shareholders, govern a comprehensive range of matters relating to ownership and control of our shares, our acquisition of other companies and businesses, permissible activities for us to engage in, maintenance of adequate capital levels and other aspects of our operations. The bank regulatory agencies possess broad authority to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law.. The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in July 2010, instituted major changes to the banking and financial institutions regulatory regimes in light of the recent performance of and government intervention in the financial services sector. Other changes to statues, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect the Company in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject the Company to reduced revenues, additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products the Company may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, the banking regulations could prohibit and significantly delay the Company's acquisition of other financial institutions.. Included in the Dodd-Frank Act are, for example, changes related to interchange fees and overdraft services. While the changes for interchange fees that can be charged for electronic debit transactions by payment card issuers relate only to banks with assets greater than $10 billion, concern exists that the regulations will also impact our Company. Beginning in the third quarter of 2010, we were prohibited from charging customers fees for paying overdrafts on automated teller machine and debit card transactions, unless the consumer opts in. We continue to monitor the impact of these new regulations and other developments on our service charge revenue.. 23. Table of Contents. Federal income tax reform could have unforeseen effects on our financial condition and results of operations.. On December 22, 2017, the President of the United States signed into law H.R. 1, originally known as the \"Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.\" The Company is still in the process of analyzing the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act and its possible effects on the Company. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act includes a number of provisions, including the lowering of the U.S. corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent, effective January 1, 2018. There are also provisions that may partially offset the benefit of such rate reduction. Financial statement impacts include adjustments for, among other things, the re-measurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities. While there are benefits, there is also substantial uncertainty regarding the details of U.S. Tax Reform. The intended and unintended consequences of Tax Cuts and Jobs Act on our business and on holders of our common shares is uncertain and could be adverse. The Company anticipates that the impact of Tax Cuts and Jobs Act may be material to our business, financial condition and results of operations.. A new accounting standard will result in a significant change in how we recognize credit losses and may have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations.. In June 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\") issued an accounting standard update, \"Financial Instruments-Credit Losses (Topic 326), Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments,\" which replaces the current \"incurred loss\" model for recognizing credit losses with an \"expected loss\" model referred to as the Current Expected Credit Loss (\"CECL\") model. Under the CECL model, we will be required to present certain financial assets carried at amortized cost, such as loans held for investment and held-to-maturity debt securities, at the net amount expected to be collected. The measurement of expected credit losses is to be based on information about past events, including historical experience, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts that affect the collectability of the reported amount. This measurement will take place at the time the financial asset is first added to the balance sheet and periodically thereafter. This differs significantly from the \"incurred loss\" model required under current generally accepted accounting principles (\"GAAP\"), which delays recognition until it is probable a loss has been incurred. Accordingly, we expect that the adoption of the CECL model will materially affect how we determine our allowance for loan losses and could require us to significantly increase our allowance. Moreover, the CECL model may create more volatility in the level of our allowance for loan losses. If we are required to materially increase our level of allowance for loan losses for any reason, such increase could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The new CECL standard will become effective for us for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019 and for interim periods within those fiscal years. We are currently evaluating the impact the CECL model will have on our accounting, but we expect to recognize a one-time cumulative-effect adjustment to our allowance for loan losses as of the beginning of the first reporting period in which the new standard is effective, consistent with regulatory expectations set forth in interagency guidance issued at the end of 2016. We cannot yet determine the magnitude of any such one-time cumulative adjustment or of the overall impact of the new standard on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our FDIC insurance assessments could increase substantially resulting in higher operating costs.. We have historically paid the lowest premium rate available due to our sound financial position. Should the number of bank failures increase, FDIC premiums could increase or additional special assessments could be imposed. These increased premiums would have an adverse effect on our net income and results of operations.. We compete with many larger financial institutions which have substantially greater financial resources than we have.. Competition among financial institutions in Texas is intense. We compete with other bank holding companies, state and national commercial banks, savings and loan associations, consumer financial companies, credit unions, securities brokers, insurance companies, mortgage banking companies, money market mutual funds, asset-based non-bank lenders and other financial institutions. Many of these competitors have substantially greater financial. 24. Table of Contents. resources, larger lending limits, larger branch networks and less regulatory oversight than we do, and are able to offer a broader range of products and services than we can. Failure to compete effectively for deposit, loan and other banking customers in our markets could cause us to lose market share, slow our growth rate and may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. We are subject to interest rate risk.. Our profitability is dependent to a large extent on our net interest income, which is the difference between interest income we earn as a result of interest paid to us on loans and investments and interest we pay to third parties such as our depositors and those from whom we borrow funds. Like most financial institutions, we are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Federal Reserve Board. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities, and (iii) the average duration of the Company's securities portfolio. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and investments, our net interest income, and earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings.. Although we have implemented strategies which we believe reduce the potential effects of adverse changes in interest rates on our results of operations, these strategies may not always be successful. In addition, any substantial and prolonged increase in market interest rates could reduce our customers' desire to borrow money from us or adversely affect their ability to repay their outstanding loans by increasing their credit costs since most of our loans have adjustable interest rates that reset periodically. Any of these events could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. We are subject to liquidity risk.. The Company requires liquidity to meet our deposit and other obligations as they come due. The Company's access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance its activities or on terms that are acceptable to it could be impaired by factors that affect it specifically or the financial services industry or the general economy. Factors that could reduce its access to liquidity sources include a downturn in the Texas market, difficult credit markets or adverse regulatory actions against the Company. The Company's access to deposits may also be affected by the liquidity needs of its depositors. In particular, a substantial majority of the Company's liabilities are demand, savings, interest checking and money market deposits, which are payable on demand or upon several days' notice, while by comparison, a substantial portion of its assets are loans, which cannot be called or sold in the same time frame. The Company may not be able to replace maturing deposits and advances as necessary in the future, especially if a large number of its depositors sought to withdraw their accounts, regardless of the reason. A failure to maintain adequate liquidity could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and result of operations.. The value of certain securities in our investment portfolio may be negatively affected by changes or disruptions in the market for these securities.. Our investment portfolio securities include obligations of, and mortgage-backed securities guaranteed by, government sponsored enterprises such as the Federal National Mortgage Association, referred to as Fannie Mae, the Government National Mortgage Association, referred to as Ginnie Mae, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, referred to as Freddie Mac, and the Federal Home Loan Bank or otherwise backed by Federal Housing Administration or Veteran's Administration guaranteed loans; however, volatility or illiquidity in financial markets may cause investment securities held within our investment portfolio to fall in value or become less liquid. The FRB's actions to increase interest rates may cause a decline in the value of securities held by the Company. Uncertainty surrounding the credit risk associated with mortgage collateral or guarantors may cause material discrepancies in valuation estimates obtained from third parties. Volatile market conditions may reduce valuations due to the perception of heightened credit and liquidity risks in addition to interest rate risk typically associated with these securities. There can be no assurance that declines in market value associated with these disruptions will not result in impairments of these assets, which would lead to accounting charges that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, equity and capital ratios.. 25. Table of Contents. First Financial Bankshares, Inc. relies on dividends from its subsidiaries for most of its revenue.. First Financial Bankshares, Inc. is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. It receives substantially all of its revenue from dividends paid by its subsidiaries. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on the Company's common stock and interest and principal on First Financial Bankshares, Inc. debt (if we had balances outstanding). Various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that our bank and trust subsidiaries may pay to First Financial Bankshares, Inc. In the event our subsidiaries are unable to pay dividends to First Financial Bankshares, Inc., First Financial Bankshares, Inc. may not be able to service debt, if any, or pay dividends on the Company's common stock. The inability to receive dividends from our subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. To continue our growth, we are affected by our ability to identify and acquire other financial institutions.. We intend to continue our current growth strategy. This strategy includes opening new branches and acquiring other banks that serve customers or markets we find desirable. The market for acquisitions remains highly competitive, and we may be unable to find satisfactory acquisition candidates in the future that fit our acquisition and growth strategy. To the extent that we are unable to find suitable acquisition candidates, an important component of our growth strategy may be lost. Additionally, our completed acquisitions, or any future acquisitions, may not produce the revenue, earnings or synergies that we anticipated.. We may not be able to complete future acquisitions, may not be successful in realizing the benefits of any acquisitions that are completed, or may choose not to pursue acquisition opportunities we might find beneficial.. A substantial part of our historical growth has been a result of acquisitions of other financial institutions, and we may, from time to time, evaluate and engage in the acquisition of other financial institutions. We must generally satisfy a number of conditions prior to completing any such transaction, including certain bank regulatory approvals. Bank regulators consider a number of factors with regard to all institutions involved in the transaction when determining whether to approve a proposed transaction, including, among others, the ratings and compliance history, anti-money laundering and Bank Secrecy Act compliance history, CRA examination results and the effect of the proposed transaction on the financial stability of the institutions involved and the market as a whole.. The process for obtaining required regulatory approvals has become substantially more difficult, time-consuming and unpredictable as a result of the financial crisis. We may fail to pursue, evaluate or complete strategic and competitively significant business opportunities as a result of our inability, or our perceived inability, to obtain required regulatory approvals in a timely manner or at all.. Assuming we are able to successfully complete one or more transactions, we may not be able to successfully integrate and realize the expected synergies from any completed transaction in a timely manner or at all. In particular, we may be charged by federal and state regulators with regulatory and compliance failures at an acquired business prior to the date of the acquisition, and these failures by the acquired company may have negative consequences for us, including the imposition of formal or informal enforcement actions. Completion and integration of any transaction may also divert management's attention from other matters, result in additional costs and expenses, or adversely affect our relationships with our customers and employees, any of which may adversely affect our business or results of operations. As a result, our financial condition may be affected, and we may become more susceptible to general economic conditions and competitive pressures.. Use of our common stock for future acquisitions or to raise capital may be dilutive to existing stockholders.. When we determine that appropriate strategic opportunities exist, we may acquire other financial institutions and related businesses, subject to applicable regulatory requirements. We may use our common stock for such acquisitions. We may also seek to raise capital through selling additional common stock, although we have not historically done so. It is possible that the issuance of additional common stock in such acquisition or capital transactions may be dilutive to the interests of our existing shareholders.. 26. Table of Contents. Our accounting estimates and risk management processes rely on analytical and forecasting models.. The processes we use to estimate our allowance for loan losses and to measure the fair value of financial instruments, as well as the processes used to estimate the effects of changing interest rates depends upon the use of analytical and forecasting models. In addition, these models are used to calculate fair value of our assets and liabilities when we acquire other financial institutions. These models reflect assumptions that may not be accurate, particularly in times of market stress or other unforeseen circumstances. Even if these assumptions are adequate, the models may prove to be inadequate or inaccurate because of other flaws in their design or their implementation. If the models we use for interest rate risk and asset-liability management are inadequate, we may incur increased or unexpected losses upon changes in market interest rates or other market measures. If the models we use for determining our probable loan losses are inadequate, the allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to support future charge-offs. If the models we use to measure the fair value financial instruments is inadequate, the fair value of such financial instruments may fluctuate unexpectedly or may not accurately reflect what we could realize upon sale or settlement of such financial instruments. Such failure in our analytical or forecasting models could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The value of our goodwill and other intangible assets may decline in the future.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $141.14 million of goodwill and other intangible assets and will add approximately $31.24 million of goodwill with our acquisition of Commercial Bancshares, Inc. effective January 1, 2018. A significant decline in our financial condition, a significant adverse change in the business climate, slower growth rates or a significant and sustained decline in the price of our common stock may necessitate taking charges in the future related to the impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets. If we were to conclude that a future write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets is necessary, we would record the appropriate charge, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We rely heavily on our management team, and the unexpected loss of key management or inability to recruit qualified personnel in the future may adversely affect our operations.. Our success to date has been strongly influenced by our ability to attract and to retain senior management experienced in banking in the markets we serve. Our ability to retain executive officers and the current management teams will continue to be important to the successful implementation of our strategies. We do not have employment agreements with these key employees other than executive agreements in the event of a change of control and a confidential information, non-solicitation and non-competition agreements related to our stock options. The unexpected loss of services of any key management personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. In addition, the scope and content of U.S. banking regulators' policies on incentive compensation, as well as changes to these policies, could adversely affect our ability to hire, retain and motivate our key employees.. The Company's stock price can be volatile.. Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for our shareholders to resell their common stock when they want and at prices they find attractive. The Company's stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors including, among other things:. <U+0095>   actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations;. <U+0095>   recommendations by securities analysts;. <U+0095>   operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to the Company;. <U+0095>   new reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry or Texas economy, including oil and gas and cattle prices;. 27. Table of Contents. <U+0095>   perceptions in the marketplace regarding the Company and/or its competitors;. <U+0095>   new technology used, or services offered, by competitors;. <U+0095>   significant acquisitions or business combinations involving the Company or its competitors; and. <U+0095>   changes in government regulations, including tax laws.. General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends could also cause the Company's stock price to decrease regardless of operational results.. We may not continue to pay dividends on our common stock in the future.. Holders of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and may reduce or eliminate our common stock dividends in the future. This could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Also, we are a bank holding company, and our ability to declare and pay dividends is dependent on certain federal regulatory considerations, including the guidelines of the Federal Reserve Board regarding capital adequacy and dividends.. Certain banking laws may have an anti-takeover effect.. Provisions of federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial to our shareholders. These provisions effectively inhibit a non-negotiated merger or other business combination, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. The trading volume in our common stock is less than other larger financial institutions.. Although the Company's common stock is listed for trading on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, the trading volume in our common stock is less than that of other, larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of the Company's common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which the Company has no control. Given the lower trading volume of the Company's common stock, significant sales of the Company's common stock, or the expectation of these sales, could cause the Company's stock price to fall.. Breakdowns in our internal controls and procedures could have an adverse effect on us.. We believe our internal control system as currently documented and functioning is adequate to provide reasonable assurance over our internal controls. Nevertheless, because of the inherent limitation in administering a cost effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Breakdowns in our internal controls and procedures could occur in the future, and any such breakdowns could have an adverse effect on us. See \"Item 9A  -  Controls and Procedures\" for additional information.. Our operations rely on certain external vendors.. We rely on certain external vendors to provide products and services necessary to maintain our day-to-day operations. Accordingly, our operations are exposed to risk that these vendors will not perform in accordance with the contracted agreements under service level agreements. The failure of an external vendor to perform in accordance with the contracted arrangements under service level agreements, because of changes in the vendor's organizational structure, financial condition, support for existing products or services or strategic focus or for any other reason, could be disruptive to our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations.. 28. Table of Contents. We compete in an industry that continually experiences technological change, and we may have fewer resources than many of our competitors to continue to invest in technological improvements.. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to improving the ability to serve customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for conveniences, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our larger competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers.. System failure or cybersecurity breaches of our network security could subject us to increased operating costs as well as litigation and other potential losses.. The computer systems and network infrastructure we use could be vulnerable to unforeseen hardware and cybersecurity issues, including \"hacking\" and \"identity theft.\" Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment against damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or a similar catastrophic event. Any damage or failure that causes an interruption in our operations could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect the computer systems and network infrastructure utilized by us, including our Internet banking activities, against damage from physical break-ins, cybersecurity breaches and other disruptive problems caused by the Internet or other users. Such computer break-ins and other disruptions would jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and network infrastructure, which may result in significant liability to us, damage our reputation and inhibit current and potential customers from our Internet banking services. Each year, we add additional security measures to our computer systems and network infrastructure to mitigate the possibility of cybersecurity breaches including firewalls and penetration testing. We continue to investigate cost effective measures as well as insurance protection.. Furthermore, our customers could incorrectly blame the Company and terminate their accounts with the Company for a cyber-incident which occurred on their own system or with that of an unrelated third party. In addition, a security breach could also subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny and expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability.. Our business may be adversely affected by security breaches at third parties.. Our customers interact with their own and other third party systems, which pose operational risks to us. We may be adversely affected by data breaches at retailers and other third parties who maintain data relating to our customers that involve the theft of customers data, including the theft of customers' debit card, merchant credit card, wire transfer and other identifying and/or access information used to make purchases or payments at such retailers and to other third parties.. In the event of a data breach at one or more retailers of considerable magnitude, the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.. We are subject to claims and litigation pertaining to intellectual property.. We rely on technology companies to provide information technology products and services necessary to support our day-to-day operations. Technology companies frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of patent infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. In addition, patent holding companies seek to monetize patents they have purchased or otherwise obtained. Competitors of our vendors, or other individuals or companies, have from time to time claimed to hold intellectual property sold to us by its vendors. Such claims may increase in the future as the financial services sector becomes more reliant on information technology vendors. The plaintiffs in these actions frequently seek injunctions and substantial damages.. 29. Table of Contents. Regardless of the scope or validity of such patents or other intellectual property rights, or the merits of any claims by potential or actual litigants, we may have to engage in litigation that could be expensive, time-consuming, disruptive to our operations, and distracting to management. If we are found to infringe one or more patents or other intellectual property rights, we may be required to pay substantial damages or royalties to a third-party. In certain cases, we may consider entering into licensing agreements for disputed intellectual property, although no assurance can be given that such licenses can be obtained on acceptable terms or that litigation will not occur. These licenses may also significantly increase our operating expenses. If legal matters related to intellectual property claims were resolved against us or settled, we could be required to make payments in amounts that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. An investment in our common stock is not an insured deposit.. Our common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund, or by any other public or private entity. Investment in our common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this \"Risk Factors\" section and elsewhere in this Report. As a result, if you acquire our common stock, you may lose some or all of your investment."
