[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. You should carefully consider each of the following risk factors and the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Company faces risks other than those listed here, including those that are unknown to the Company and others of which the Company may be aware but, at present, considers immaterial. Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting the Company's operating results, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods.. 1. Conditions in the real estate market generally impact the demand for a substantial portion of the Company's products and services and the Company's claims experience. Demand for a substantial portion of the Company's products and services generally decreases as the number of real estate transactions in which its products and services are purchased decreases. The number of real estate transactions in which the Company's products and services are purchased decreases in the following situations:. •  when mortgage interest rates are high or rising;. •  when the availability of credit, including commercial and residential mortgage funding, is limited; and. •  when real estate values are declining.. 11. These circumstances, particularly declining real estate values and the increase in foreclosures that often results therefrom, also tend to adversely impact the Company's title claims experience.. 2. Unfavorable economic conditions could adversely affect the Company. Historically, uncertainty and negative trends in general economic conditions in the United States and abroad, including significant tightening of credit markets and a general decline in the value of real property, have created a difficult operating environment for the Company's businesses and other companies in its industries. In addition, the Company holds investments in entities, such as title agencies and settlement service providers, as well as securities in its investment portfolio, which may be negatively impacted by these conditions. The Company also owns a federal savings bank into which it deposits some of its own funds and some funds held in trust for third parties. This bank invests those funds and any realized losses incurred will be reflected in the Company's consolidated results. The likelihood of such losses, which generally would not occur if the Company were to deposit these funds in an unaffiliated entity, increases when economic conditions are unfavorable. Depending upon the ultimate severity and duration of any economic downturn, the resulting effects on the Company could be materially adverse, including a significant reduction in revenues, earnings and cash flows, challenges to the Company's ability to satisfy covenants or otherwise meet its obligations under debt facilities, difficulties in obtaining access to capital, challenges to the Company's ability to pay dividends at currently anticipated levels, deterioration in the value of its investments and increased credit risk from customers and others with obligations to the Company.. 3. Failures at financial institutions at which the Company deposits funds could adversely affect the Company. The Company deposits substantial funds in financial institutions. These funds include amounts owned by third parties, such as escrow deposits. Should one or more of the financial institutions at which deposits are maintained fail, there is no guarantee that the Company would recover the funds deposited, whether through Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation coverage or otherwise. In the event of any such failure, the Company also could be held liable for the funds owned by third parties.. 4. Changes in government regulation could prohibit or limit the Company's operations, make it more burdensome to conduct such operations or result in decreased demand for the Company's products and services. Many of the Company's businesses, including its title insurance, property and casualty insurance, home warranty, banking, trust and wealth management businesses, are regulated by various federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies. These and other of the Company's businesses also operate within statutory guidelines. The industry in which the Company operates and the markets into which it sells its products are also regulated and subject to statutory guidelines. Changes in the applicable regulatory environment, statutory guidelines or interpretations of existing regulations or statutes, enhanced governmental oversight or efforts by governmental agencies to cause customers to refrain from using the Company's products or services could prohibit or limit its future operations or make it more burdensome to conduct such operations or result in decreased demand for the Company's products and services or a change in our competitive position. The impact of these changes would be more significant if they involve jurisdictions in which the Company generates a greater portion of its title premiums, such as the states of Arizona, California, Florida, Michigan, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania and Texas. These changes may compel the Company to reduce its prices, may restrict its ability to implement price increases or acquire assets or businesses, may limit the manner in which the Company conducts its business or otherwise may have a negative impact on its ability to generate revenues, earnings and cash flows.. 5. Scrutiny of the Company's businesses and the industries in which it operates by governmental entities and others could adversely affect the Company. The real estate settlement services industry, an industry in which the Company generates a substantial portion of its revenue and earnings, is subject to continuous scrutiny by regulators, legislators, the media and plaintiffs' attorneys. Though often directed at the industry generally, these groups may also focus their attention directly on the Company's businesses. In either case, this scrutiny may result in changes which could adversely affect the Company's operations and, therefore, its financial condition and liquidity.. 12. Governmental entities have routinely inquired into certain practices in the real estate settlement services industry to determine whether certain of the Company's businesses or its competitors have violated applicable laws, which include, among others, the insurance codes of the various jurisdictions and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act and similar state, federal and foreign laws. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (\"CFPB\"), for example, has actively been utilizing its regulatory authority over the mortgage and real estate markets by bringing enforcement actions against various participants in the mortgage and settlement industries. Departments of insurance in the various states, the CFPB and other federal regulators and applicable regulators in international jurisdictions, either separately or together, also periodically conduct targeted inquiries into the practices of title insurance companies and other settlement services providers in their respective jurisdictions.. Further, from time to time plaintiffs' lawyers may target the Company and other members of the Company's industry with lawsuits claiming legal violations or other wrongful conduct. These lawsuits may involve large groups of plaintiffs and claims for substantial damages. Any of these types of inquiries or proceedings may result in a finding of a violation of the law or other wrongful conduct and may result in the payment of fines or damages or the imposition of restrictions on the Company's conduct which could impact its operations and financial condition. Moreover, these laws and standards of conduct often are ambiguous and, thus, it may be difficult to ensure compliance. This ambiguity may force the Company to mitigate its risk by settling claims or by ending practices that generate revenues, earnings and cash flows.. 6. The use of social media by the Company and other parties could result in damage to the Company's reputation or otherwise adversely affect the Company. The Company increasingly utilizes social media to communicate with current and potential customers and employees, as well as other individuals interested in the Company. Information delivered by the Company, or by third parties about the Company, via social media can be easily accessed and rapidly disseminated, and could result in reputational harm, decreased customer loyalty or other issues that could diminish the value of the Company's brand or result in significant liability.. 7. Regulation of title insurance rates could adversely affect the Company. Title insurance rates are subject to extensive regulation, which varies from state to state. In many states the approval of the applicable state insurance regulator is required prior to implementing a rate change. This regulation could hinder the Company's ability to promptly adapt to changing market dynamics through price adjustments, which could adversely affect its results of operations, particularly in a rapidly declining market.. 8. Changes in certain laws and regulations, and in the regulatory environment in which the Company operates, could adversely affect the Company. Federal officials are currently discussing various potential changes to laws and regulations that could impact the Company's businesses, including changes to the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and the reform or privatization of government-sponsored enterprises such as the Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae) and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (Freddie Mac). Changes in these areas, and more generally in the regulatory environment in which the Company and its customers operate, could adversely impact the volume of mortgage originations in the United States and the Company's competitive position and results of operations.. 9. The Company may find it difficult to acquire necessary data. Certain data used and supplied by the Company are subject to regulation by various federal, state and local regulatory authorities. Compliance with existing federal, state and local laws and regulations with respect to such data has not had a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations to date. Nonetheless, federal, state and local laws and regulations in the United States designed to protect the public from the misuse of personal information in the marketplace and adverse publicity or potential litigation concerning the commercial use of such information may affect the Company's operations and could result in substantial regulatory compliance expense, litigation expense and a loss of revenue. The suppliers of data to the Company face similar burdens. As a result of these and other factors, the Company may find it financially burdensome to acquire necessary data.. 13. 10. Changes in the Company's relationships with large mortgage lenders or government - sponsored enterprises could adversely affect the Company. The mortgage market in the United States is concentrated. Due to the consolidated nature of the industry, the Company derives a significant percentage of its revenues from a relatively small base of lenders, and their borrowers, which enhances the negotiating power of these lenders with respect to the pricing and the terms on which they purchase the Company's products and other matters. Similarly, government-sponsored enterprises, because of their significant role in the mortgage process, have significant influence over the Company and other service providers. These circumstances could adversely affect the Company's revenues and profitability. Changes in the Company's relationship with any of these lenders or government-sponsored enterprises, the loss of all or a portion of the business the Company derives from these parties, or any refusal of these parties to accept the Company's products and services or the use of alternatives to the Company's products and services, could have a material adverse effect on the Company.. 11. A downgrade by ratings agencies, reductions in statutory capital and surplus maintained by the Company's title insurance underwriters or a deterioration in other measures of financial strength could adversely affect the Company. Certain of the Company's customers use measurements of the financial strength of the Company's title insurance underwriters, including, among others, ratings provided by ratings agencies and levels of statutory capital and surplus maintained by those underwriters, in determining the amount of a policy they will accept and the amount of reinsurance required. Each of the major ratings agencies currently rates the Company's title insurance operations. The Company's principal title insurance underwriter's financial strength ratings are \"A3\" by Moody's Investor Services, Inc., \"A\" by Fitch Ratings, Inc., \"A-\" by Standard & Poor's Ratings Services and \"A\" by A.M. Best Company, Inc. These ratings provide the agencies' perspectives on the financial strength, operating performance and cash generating ability of those operations. These agencies continually review these ratings and the ratings are subject to change. Statutory capital and surplus, or the amount by which statutory assets exceed statutory liabilities, is also a measure of financial strength. The Company's principal title insurance underwriter maintained $1.2 billion of total statutory capital and surplus as of December 31, 2017. Accordingly, if the ratings or statutory capital and surplus of these title insurance underwriters are reduced from their current levels, or if there is a deterioration in other measures of financial strength, the Company's results of operations, competitive position and liquidity could be adversely affected.. 12. The Company's investment portfolio is subject to certain risks and could experience losses. The Company maintains a substantial investment portfolio, primarily consisting of fixed income debt securities. The investment portfolio also includes adjustable-rate debt securities, common and preferred stock, as well as money-market and other short-term investments. Securities in the Company's investment portfolio are subject to certain economic and financial market risks, such as credit risk, interest rate (including call, prepayment and extension) risk and/or liquidity risk. The risk of loss associated with the portfolio is increased during periods of instability in credit markets and economic conditions. Debt and equity securities are carried at fair value on the Company's balance sheet.  Changes in the fair value of debt securities is recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss on the balance sheet.  For debt securities in an unrealized loss position, where the loss is deemed to be other-than-temporary, the Company records the loss in earnings.  Starting in 2018, changes in the fair value of equity securities are recognized in earnings.  Changes in the fair value of securities in the Company's investment portfolio could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations, statutory surplus, financial condition and cash flow.. 13. Actual claims experience could materially vary from the expected claims experience reflected in the Company's reserve for incurred but not reported claims. The Company maintains a reserve for incurred but not reported (\"IBNR\") claims pertaining to its title, escrow and other insurance and guarantee products. The majority of this reserve pertains to title insurance policies, which are long-duration contracts with the majority of the claims reported within the first few years following the issuance of the policy. Generally, 70% to 80% of claim amounts become known in the first six years of the policy life, and the majority of IBNR reserves relate to the six most recent policy years. Changes in expected ultimate losses and corresponding loss rates for recent policy years are considered likely and could result in a material adjustment to the IBNR reserves. Based on historical experience, management believes a 50 basis point change to the loss rates for recent policy years, positive or negative, is reasonably likely given the long duration nature of a title insurance policy. For example, if the expected ultimate losses for each of the last six policy years increased or decreased by 50 basis points, the resulting impact on the Company's IBNR reserve would be an increase or decrease, as the case may be, of $117.8 million. A material change in expected ultimate losses and corresponding loss rates for older policy years is also possible, particularly for policy years with loss ratios exceeding historical norms. The estimates made by management in determining the appropriate level of IBNR reserves could ultimately prove to be materially different from actual claims experience.. 14. 14. The issuance of the Company's title insurance policies and related activities by title agents, which operate with substantial independence from the Company, could adversely affect the Company. The Company's title insurance subsidiaries issue a significant portion of their policies through title agents that operate with a substantial degree of independence from the Company. While these title agents are subject to certain contractual limitations that are designed to limit the Company's risk with respect to their activities, there is no guarantee that the agents will fulfill their contractual obligations to the Company. In addition, regulators are increasingly seeking to hold the Company responsible for the actions of these title agents and, under certain circumstances, the Company may be held liable directly to third parties for actions (including defalcations) or omissions of these agents. Case law in certain states also suggests that the Company is liable for the actions or omissions of its agents in those states, regardless of contractual limitations. As a result, the Company's use of title agents could result in increased claims on the Company's policies issued through agents and an increase in other costs and expenses.. 15. The Company's risk management framework could prove inadequate, which could adversely affect the Company. The Company's risk management framework is designed to identify, monitor and mitigate risks that could have a negative impact on the Company's financial condition or reputation. This framework includes departments or groups dedicated to enterprise risk management, information security, disaster recovery and other information technology-related risks, business continuity, legal and compliance, compensation structures and other human resources matters, vendor management and internal audit, among others. While many of the processes overseen by these departments function at the enterprise level, many also function through, or rely to a certain degree upon, risk mitigation efforts in local operating groups. Similarly, with respect to the risks the Company assumes in the ordinary course of its business through the issuance of title insurance policies and the provision of related products and services, the Company employs localized as well as centralized risk mitigation efforts. These efforts include the implementation of underwriting policies and procedures and other mechanisms for assessing risk. Underwriting title insurance policies and making other risk-assumption decisions frequently involves a substantial degree of individual judgment and, accordingly, underwriters are maintained at the regional, divisional and corporate levels with varying degrees of underwriting authority. These individuals may be encouraged by customers or others to assume risks or to expeditiously make risk determinations. If the Company's risk mitigation efforts prove inadequate, the Company could be adversely affected.. 16. Systems damage, failures, interruptions and intrusions, and unauthorized data disclosures may disrupt the Company's business, harm the Company's reputation, result in material claims for damages or otherwise adversely affect the Company. The Company uses computer systems to receive, process, store and transmit business information, including highly sensitive non-public personal information as well as data from suppliers and other information upon which its business relies. It also uses these systems to manage substantial cash, investment assets, bank deposits, trust assets and escrow account balances on behalf of the Company and its customers, among other activities. Many of the Company's products, services and solutions involving the use of real property related data are fully reliant on its systems and are only available electronically. Accordingly, for a variety of reasons, the integrity of the Company's computer systems and the protection of the information that resides on those systems are critically important to its successful operation. The Company's core computer systems are primarily located in a data center it manages and secondarily in a disaster recovery data center maintained by a third party. The Company is currently engaged in a multi-year process of transitioning to third party cloud-based hosting of its computer systems.. The Company's computer systems and systems used by its agents, suppliers and customers have been subject to, and are likely to continue to be the target of, computer viruses, cyber attacks, phishing attacks and other malicious activity. These attacks have increased in frequency and sophistication in recent years.  Further, certain other potential causes of system damage or other negative system-related events are wholly or partially beyond the Company's control, such as natural disasters, vendor failures to satisfy service level requirements and power or telecommunications failures.  These incidents, regardless of their underlying causes, could expose the Company to system-related damage, failures, interruptions, and other negative events or could otherwise disrupt the Company's business and could also result in the loss or unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring or destruction of confidential, proprietary and other information pertaining to the Company, its customers, employees, agents or suppliers.. 15. Certain laws and contracts the Company has entered into require it to notify various parties, including consumers or customers, in the event of certain actual or potential data breaches or systems failures. These notifications can result, among other things, in the loss of customers, lawsuits, adverse publicity, diversion of management's time and energy, the attention of regulatory authorities, fines and disruptions in sales.  Further, the Company's financial institution customers have obligations to safeguard their computer systems and sensitive information and it may be bound contractually and/or by regulation to comply with the same requirements. If the Company fails to comply with applicable regulations and contractual requirements, it could be exposed to lawsuits, governmental proceedings or the imposition of fines, among other consequences.. Accordingly, any inability to prevent or adequately respond to the issues described above could disrupt the Company's business, inhibit its ability to retain existing customers or attract new customers and/or result in financial losses, litigation, increased costs or other adverse consequences which could be material to the Company.. 17.  The Company's increased automation of processes could result in increased title claims or otherwise adversely affect the Company. In an effort to speed the delivery of its products, increase efficiency, improve quality and decrease risk, the Company increasingly is employing computer systems and algorithms to automate various processes, including certain processes related to the search and examination of information in connection with the issuance of title insurance policies.  Risks from process automation include those associated with potential defects in the design and development of the algorithms or other technologies used to automate the process, misapplication of those technologies and the reliance on data, which may prove inadequate.  As a result of these risks the Company could experience increased claims, reputational damage or other adverse effects, which could be material to the Company.. 18. Errors and fraud involving the transfer of funds may adversely affect the Company. The Company relies on its systems, employees and domestic and international banks to transfer funds. These transfers are susceptible to user input error, fraud, system interruptions, incorrect processing and similar errors that could result in lost funds or delayed transactions. The Company's email and computer systems and systems used by its agents, customers and other parties involved in a transaction have been subject to, and are likely to continue to be the target of, fraudulent attacks, including attempts to cause the Company or its agents to improperly transfer funds. These attacks have increased in frequency and sophistication in recent years. Funds transferred to a fraudulent recipient are often not recoverable. In certain instances the Company may be liable for those unrecovered funds. The controls and procedures used by the Company to prevent transfer errors and fraud may prove inadequate, resulting in financial losses, reputational harm, loss of customers or other adverse consequences which could be material to the Company.. 19. The Company's use of a global workforce involves risks that could adversely affect the Company. The Company utilizes lower cost labor in countries such as India and the Philippines, among others. These countries are subject to relatively high degrees of political and social instability and may lack the infrastructure to withstand natural disasters. Such disruptions could decrease efficiency and increase the Company's costs. Weakness of the United States dollar in relation to the currencies used in these countries may also reduce the savings achievable through this strategy. Furthermore, the practice of utilizing labor based in other countries is subject to heightened scrutiny in the United States and, as a result, the Company could face pressure to decrease its use of labor based outside the United States. Laws or regulations that require the Company to use labor based in the United States or effectively increase the cost of the Company's labor costs abroad also could be enacted. The Company may not be able to pass on these increased costs to its customers.. 20. As a holding company, the Company depends on distributions from its subsidiaries, and if distributions from its subsidiaries are materially impaired, the Company's ability to declare and pay dividends may be adversely affected; in addition, insurance and other regulations limit the amount of dividends, loans and advances available from the Company's insurance subsidiaries. The Company is a holding company whose primary assets are investments in its operating subsidiaries. The Company's ability to pay dividends is dependent on the ability of its subsidiaries to pay dividends or repay funds. If the Company's operating subsidiaries are not able to pay dividends or repay funds, the Company may not be able to fulfill parent company obligations and/or declare and pay dividends to its stockholders. Moreover, pursuant to insurance and other regulations under which the Company's insurance subsidiaries operate, the amount of dividends, loans and advances available is limited. As of December 31, 2017, under such regulations, the maximum amount available in 2018 from these insurance subsidiaries, without prior approval from applicable regulators, was dividends of $338.4 million and loans and advances of $96.0 million.. 16. 21. Certain provisions of the Company's bylaws and certificate of incorporation may reduce the likelihood of any unsolicited acquisition proposal or potential change of control that the Company's stockholders might consider favorable. The Company's bylaws and certificate of incorporation contain provisions that could be considered \"anti-takeover\" provisions because they make it harder for a third-party to acquire the Company without the consent of the Company's incumbent board of directors. Under these provisions:. •  election of the Company's board of directors is staggered such that only one-third of the directors are elected by the stockholders each year and the directors serve three year terms prior to reelection;. •  stockholders may not remove directors without cause, change the size of the board of directors or, except as may be provided for in the terms of preferred stock the Company issues in the future, fill vacancies on the board of directors;. •  stockholders may act only at stockholder meetings and not by written consent;. •  stockholders must comply with advance notice provisions for nominating directors or presenting other proposals at stockholder meetings; and. •  the Company's board of directors may without stockholder approval issue preferred shares and determine their rights and terms, including voting rights, or adopt a stockholder rights plan.. While the Company believes that they are appropriate, these provisions, which may only be amended by the affirmative vote of the holders of approximately 67% of the Company's issued voting shares, could have the effect of discouraging an unsolicited acquisition proposal or delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be considered favorably by the Company's stockholders."
