[1] "Item 1A. \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tRisk Factors.. The risk factors described below discuss potential events, trends, or other circumstances that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, liquidity, access to capital resources, and, consequently, cause the market value of our common stock to decline. These risks could cause our future results to differ materially from historical results and expectations of future financial performance. If any of the risks occur and the market price of our common stock declines significantly, individuals may lose all, or part, of their investment in our Company. Individuals should carefully consider our risk factors and information included, or incorporated by reference, in this report before making an investment decision. There may be risks and uncertainties that we have not identified or that we have deemed immaterial that could adversely affect our business; therefore, the following risk factors are not intended to be an exhaustive list of all risks we face.. 11. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Our Business. The current economic environment poses significant challenges.. Our financial performance is generally highly dependent on the business environment in the markets we operate in and of the U.S. as a whole, which includes the ability of borrowers to pay interest, repay principal on outstanding loans, the value of collateral securing those loans, and demand for loans and other products and services we offer. A favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors, economic growth, efficient capital markets, low inflation, low unemployment, high business and investor confidence, and strong business earnings. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by declines in economic growth, business activity, and investor or business confidence; limitations on the availability, or increases, in the cost of credit and capital; increases in inflation or interest rates; high unemployment; natural disasters; or a combination of these or other factors.. In recent years, economic growth and business activity across a wide range of industries has been slow and uneven. There are continuing concerns related to the level of U.S. government debt, fiscal actions that may be taken to address that debt, oil price volatility, global economic conditions, and significant uncertainty with respect to domestic and international fiscal and monetary policy. Economic pressure on consumers and uncertainty about continuing economic improvement may result in changes in consumer and business spending, borrowing, and savings habits. There can be no assurance that these conditions will improve or that these conditions will not worsen. Such conditions could adversely affect the credit quality of the Bank’s loans and the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We operate in a highly regulated industry subject to examination, supervision, enforcement, and other legal actions by various federal and state governmental authorities, laws, and judicial and administrative decisions.. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations, and policies. Changes to these statutes, regulations, and regulatory policies, including changes in the interpretation or implementation, may cause substantial and unpredictable effects, require additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products offered, or allow non-banks to offer competing financial services and products. Failure to follow laws, regulations, and policies may result in sanctions by regulatory agencies and civil money penalties, which could have material adverse effects on our reputation, business, financial condition, and results of operations. We have policies and procedures designed to prevent violations; however, there is no assurance that violations will not occur. Existing and future laws, regulations, and policies yet to be adopted may make compliance more difficult or expensive; restrict our ability to originate, broker, or sell loans; further limit or restrict commissions, interest, and other charges earned on loans we originate or sell; and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. The Bank’s ability to pay dividends is subject to regulatory limitations that may affect the Company’s ability to pay expenses and dividends to shareholders.. The Company is a legal entity that is separate and distinct from its subsidiaries. The Company depends on the Bank and its other subsidiaries for cash, liquidity, and the payment of dividends to the Company to pay operating expenses and dividends to stockholders. There is no assurance that the Bank will have the capacity to pay dividends to the Company in the future or that the Company will not require dividends from the Bank to satisfy obligations. The Bank’s dividend payment is governed by various statutes and regulations. For additional information, see “Payment of Dividends” in Item 1 of this report. The Company may not be able to service obligations as they become due if the Bank is unable to pay dividends sufficient to satisfy the Company’s obligations, including our common stock. Consequently, the inability to receive dividends from the Bank could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and prospects.. We face strong competition from other financial institutions, financial service companies, and organizations that offer services similar to our offerings.. Our larger competitors may have substantially greater resources and lending limits, name recognition, and market presence that allow them to offer products and services that we do not offer and to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do. The expansion of non-bank competitors, which may have fewer regulatory constraints and lower cost structures, over recent years has intensified competitive pressures on core deposit generation and retention. For additional information, see “Competition” in Item 1 of this report. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain customers by adapting our products and services to evolving customer needs and industry and economic conditions. Failure to perform in any of these areas could weaken our competitive position, reduce deposits and loan originations, and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and prospects.. 12. Table of Contents. We may require additional capital in the future that may not be available when needed.. We may need to raise additional capital to strengthen our capital position, increase our liquidity, satisfy obligations, or pursue growth objectives. Our ability to raise additional capital depends on current conditions in capital markets, which are outside our control, and our financial performance. Certain economic conditions and declining market confidence may increase our cost of funds and limit our access to customary sources of capital, such as borrowings with other financial institutions, repurchase agreements, and availability under the FRB’s Discount Window. Events that limit access to capital markets and the inability to obtain capital may have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and market value of common stock. We cannot provide any assurance that additional capital will be available, on acceptable terms or at all, in the future.. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations.. Liquidity is essential to our business and the inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, equity and debt offerings, or other sources could have a materially adverse effect on our liquidity. Company specific factors such as a decline in our credit rating, an increase in the cost of capital from financial capital markets, a decrease in business activity due to adverse regulatory action or other company specific event, or a decrease in depositor or investor confidence may impair our access to funding with acceptable terms adequate to finance our activities. General factors related to the financial services industry such as a severe disruption in financial markets, a decrease in industry expectations, or a decrease in business activity due to political or environmental events may impair our access to liquidity.. We are subject to interest rate risk.. Interest rate risk results principally when interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities reprice at differing times, when underlying rates change at different levels or in varying degrees, when there is an unequal change in the spread between two or more rates for different maturities, and when embedded options, if any, are exercised. Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon net interest income. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, particularly, the Federal Reserve. Changes in monetary policy and interest rates could influence the interest we receive on loans and securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings. Further, such changes could also affect our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits and the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net interest income and earnings could be adversely affected. Conversely, if interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings, our net interest income and earnings could also be adversely affected.. Our accounting estimates and risk management processes rely on analytical and forecasting models.. The processes we use to estimate probable loan losses and to measure the fair value of financial instruments, as well as the processes used to estimate the effects of changing interest rates and other market measures on our financial condition and results of operations, depend upon analytical and forecasting models. These models reflect assumptions that may not be accurate, particularly in times of market stress or other unforeseen circumstances. Even if these assumptions are adequate, the models may prove to be inadequate or inaccurate because of other flaws in their design or their implementation. If the models we use for interest rate risk and asset/liability management are inadequate, we may incur increased or unexpected losses upon changes in market interest rates or other market measures. If the models used for determining probable loan losses are inadequate, the allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses and an increase in the loan loss provision could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Federal regulatory agencies regularly review our loans and allowance for loan losses as an integral part of the examination process. There is no assurance that we will not, or that regulators will not require us to, increase our allowance in future periods, which could materially and adversely affect our earnings and profitability. If the models we use to measure the fair value of financial instruments are inadequate, the fair value of such financial instruments may fluctuate unexpectedly or may not accurately reflect what we could realize upon the sale or settlement of such financial instruments. Any such failure in our analytical or forecasting models could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. For additional information, see “Fair Value Measurements” and “Allowance for Loan Losses” in the “Critical Accounting Estimates” section in Part II, Item 7 and Note 1, “Basis of Presentation and Accounting Policies,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this report.. 13. Table of Contents. Changes in the fair value of our investment securities may reduce stockholders’ equity and net income.. A decline in the estimated fair value of the investment portfolio may result in a decline in stockholders’ equity, book value per common share, and tangible book value per common share. Unrealized losses are recorded even though the securities are not sold or held for sale. If a debt security is never sold and no credit impairment exists, the decrease is recovered at the security’s maturity. Equity securities have no stated maturity; therefore, declines in fair value may or may not be recovered over time. We conduct quarterly reviews of our securities portfolio to determine if unrealized losses are temporary or other than temporary. No assurance can be given that we will not need to recognize other-than-temporary impairment (“OTTI”) charges in the future. Additional OTTI charges may materially affect our financial condition and earnings. For additional information, see “Investment Securities” in the “Critical Accounting Estimates” section in Part II, Item 7 and Note 1, “Basis of Presentation and Accounting Policies,” and Note 3, “Investment Securities,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this report.. We are subject to credit risk associated with the financial condition of other financial institutions.. Credit risk is the risk of not collecting payments pursuant to the contractual terms of loans, leases and investment securities. Financial institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, and other relationships. We have exposure to different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, investment companies, and other institutional clients. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the failure, actions, and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. These transactions may expose us to credit risk if our counterparty or client defaults on their contractual obligation. Our credit risk may increase if the collateral we hold cannot be realized or liquidated at prices sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to us. In the event of default, we may be required to provide collateral to secure the obligation to the counterparties. In the event of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding involving one of such counterparties, we may experience delays in recovering the assets posted as collateral or may incur a loss to the extent that the counterparty was holding collateral in excess of the obligation to such counterparty. Losses from routine funding transactions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our commercial loan portfolio may expose us to increased credit risk.. Commercial business and real estate loans generally have a higher risk of loss because loan balances are typically larger than residential real estate and consumer loans and repayment is usually dependent on cash flows from the borrower’s business or the property securing the loan. Our commercial business loans are primarily made to small business and middle market customers. As of December 31, 2017, commercial business and real estate loans totaled $1.01 billion, or 55.52%, of our total loan portfolio. As of the same date, our largest outstanding commercial business loan was $6.15 million and largest outstanding commercial real estate loan was $11.01 million. Commercial construction loans generally have a higher risk of loss due to the assumptions used to estimate the value of property at completion and the cost of the project, including interest. If the assumptions and estimates are inaccurate, the value of completed property may fall below the related loan amount. As of December 31, 2017, commercial construction loans totaled $60.06 million, or 3.30% of our total loan portfolio. As of the same date, our largest outstanding commercial construction loan was $5.79 million. Losses from our commercial loan portfolio could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to environmental liability risk associated with lending activities.. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property. In the ordinary course of business, we foreclose on and take title to properties that secure certain loans. Hazardous or toxic substances could be found on properties we own. If substances are present, we may be liable for remediation costs, personal injury claims, and property damage and our ability to use or sell the property would be limited. We have policies and procedures in place that require environmental reviews before initiating foreclosure actions on real property; however, these reviews may not detect all potential environmental hazards. Environmental laws that require us to incur substantial remediation costs, which could materially reduce the affected property’s value, and other liabilities associated with environmental hazards could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Potential acquisitions may disrupt our business and dilute stockholder value.. We may seek merger or acquisition partners that are culturally similar, have experienced management, and possess either significant market presence or the potential for improved profitability through financial management, economies of scale, or expanded services. Risks inherent in acquiring other banks, businesses, and banking branches may include the following:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpotential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the target company;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\texposure to potential asset quality issues of the target company;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulty, expense, and delays of integrating the operations and personnel of the target company;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpotential disruption to our business;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpotential diversion of management’s time and attention;. 14. Table of Contents. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tloss of key employees and customers of the target company;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulty in estimating the value of the target company;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpotential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may affect the target company;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tunexpected costs and delays;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe target company’s performance does not meet our growth and profitability expectations;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimited experience in new markets or product areas;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincreased time, expenses, and personnel as a result of strain on our infrastructure, staff, internal controls, and management; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpotential short-term decreases in profitability.. We regularly evaluate merger and acquisition opportunities and conduct due diligence activities related to possible transactions with other financial institutions and financial services companies. As a result, merger or acquisition discussions and, in some cases, negotiations may take place and future mergers or acquisitions involving the payment of cash or the issuance of debt or equity securities may occur at any time. Acquisitions typically involve goodwill, a purchase premium over the acquired company’s book and market values; therefore, dilution of our tangible book value and net income per common share may occur. If we are unable to realize revenue increases, cost savings, geographic or product presence growth, or other projected benefits from acquisitions, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.. Attractive acquisition opportunities may not be available in the future.. We expect banking and financial companies, which may have significantly greater resources, to compete for the acquisition of financial service businesses. This competition could increase the price of potential acquisitions that we believe are attractive. If we fail to receive proper regulatory approval, we will not be able to consummate an acquisition. Our regulators consider our capital, liquidity, profitability, regulatory compliance, level of goodwill and intangible assets, and other factors when considering acquisition and expansion proposals. Future acquisitions may be dilutive to our earnings and equity per share of our common stock.. We may experience future goodwill impairment.. We test goodwill for impairment annually, or more often if necessary, using quantitative and qualitative factors. Impairment charges may cause an adverse effect on our earnings and financial position. For additional information, see “Intangible Assets” in the “Critical Accounting Estimates” section in Part II, Item 7 and Note 1, “Basis of Presentation and Accounting Policies,” and Note 9, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this report.. We are subject to certain obligations under FDIC loss share agreements that specify how to manage, service, report, and request reimbursement for losses incurred on covered assets.. Our ability to receive benefits under FDIC loss share agreements is subject to compliance with certain requirements, oversight and interpretation, and contractual term limitations. Our obligations under loss share agreements are extensive, and failure to follow any obligations could result in a specific asset, or group of assets, losing loss share coverage. Reimbursement requests are subject to FDIC review and may be delayed or disallowed if we do not comply with our obligations. Losses projected to occur during the loss share term may not be realized until after the expiration of the applicable agreement; consequently, those losses may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Our current loss estimates only include those projected to occur during the loss share period and for which we expect reimbursement from the FDIC at the applicable reimbursement rate. We are subject to FDIC audits to ensure compliance with the loss share agreements. The loss share agreements are subject to interpretation by the FDIC and us; therefore, disagreements about the coverage of losses, expenses, and contingencies may arise. The realization of benefits to be received from the FDIC ultimately depends on the performance of the underlying covered assets, the passage of time, claims paid by the FDIC, and interpretation; therefore, the amount received could differ materially from the carrying value of expected reimbursements and have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For additional information, see “FDIC Indemnification Asset” in the “Critical Accounting Estimates” section in Part II, Item 7 and Note 1, “Basis of Presentation and Accounting Policies,” and Note 7, “FDIC Indemnification Asset,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this report.. We may be required to pay higher FDIC insurance premiums or special assessments.. Our deposits are insured up to applicable limits by the DIF of the FDIC and we are subject to deposit insurance assessments to maintain the DIF. For additional information, see “Deposit Insurance and Assessments” in Item 1 of this report. We are unable to predict future insurance assessment rates; however, deterioration in our risk-based capital ratios or adjustments to base assessment rates may result in higher insurance premiums or special assessments. The deterioration of banking and economic conditions and financial institution failures deplete the FDIC’s DIF and reduce the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. If the DIF is unable to meet funding requirements, increases in deposit insurance premium rates or special assessments may be required. Future assessments, increases, or required prepayments related to FDIC insurance premiums may negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations.. 15. Table of Contents. The repeal of the federal prohibitions on payment of interest on demand deposits could increase our interest expense.. All federal prohibitions on the ability of financial institutions to pay interest on demand deposit accounts were repealed as part of the Dodd-Frank Act. We do not know what interest rates other institutions may offer as market interest rates begin to increase. Our interest expense will increase and net interest margin will decrease if we offer interest on demand deposits to attract additional customers or maintain current customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We may lose members of our management team and have difficulty attracting skilled personnel.. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain key employees. Competition for the best people can be intense. The unexpected loss of key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business due to the loss of certain skills, market knowledge, and industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. Certain existing and proposed regulatory guidance on compensation may also negatively affect our ability to retain and attract skilled personnel.. Our internal controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented.. We review our internal controls over financial reporting quarterly and enhance controls in response to these assessments, internal and external audit, and regulatory recommendations. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, includes certain assumptions and can only provide reasonable assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. These controls may be circumvented by individual acts, collusion, or management override. Any failure or circumvention related to our controls and procedures or failure to follow regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, results of operations, and financial condition.. We continue to encounter technological change and are subject to information security risks associated with technology.. The financial services industry continues to experience rapid technological change with the introduction of new, and increasingly complex, technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases operational efficiency that enables financial service institutions to reduce costs. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to provide products and services that satisfactorily meet the financial needs of our customers, as well as to realize additional efficiencies in our operations. We may fail to use technology-driven products and services effectively to better serve our customers and increase operational efficiency or sufficiently invest in technology solutions and upgrades to ensure systems are operating properly. Further, many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technology, which may adversely affect our ability to compete.. We rely on electronic communications and information systems, including those provided by third-party vendors, to conduct our business operations. Our security risks increase as our reliance on technology increases; consequently, the expectation to safeguard information by monitoring systems for potential failures, disruptions, and breakdowns has also increased. Risks associated with technology include security breaches, operational failures and service interruptions, and reputational damages. These risks also apply to our third-party service providers. Our third-party vendors include large entities with significant market presence in their respective fields; therefore, their services could be difficult to replace quickly if there are operational failures or service interruptions.. We rely on our technology-driven systems to conduct daily business and accounting operations that include the collection, processing, and retention of confidential financial and client information. We may be vulnerable to security breaches, such as employee error, cyber-attacks, and viruses, beyond our control. In addition to security breaches, programming errors, vandalism, natural disasters, terrorist attacks, and third-party vendor disruptions may cause operational failures and service interruptions to our communication and information systems. Further, our systems may be temporarily disrupted during implementation or upgrade. Security breaches and service interruptions related to our information systems could damage our reputation, which may cause us to lose customers, subject us to regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and financial liability.. Our customers and employees have been, and will continue to be, targeted by parties using fraudulent e-mails and other communications in attempts to misappropriate passwords, bank account information or other personal information, or to introduce viruses or other malware through \"Trojan horse\" programs to our information systems and/or our customers' computers. Though we endeavor to mitigate these threats through product improvements, use of encryption and authentication technology, and customer and employee education, such cyber-attacks against us or our merchants and our third-party service providers remain a serious issue. The pervasiveness of cybersecurity incidents in general and the risks of cyber-crime are complex and continue to evolve. More generally, publicized information about security and cyber-related problems could inhibit the use or growth of electronic or web-based applications or solutions as a means of conducting commercial transactions.. 16. Table of Contents. While we have not experienced a significant compromise, significant data loss, or any material financial losses related to cybersecurity attacks, our systems and those of our customers and third-party service providers are under constant threat and it is possible that we could experience a significant event in the future. Although we make significant efforts to maintain the security and integrity of our information systems and have implemented various measures to manage the risk of a security breach or disruption, there can be no assurance that our security efforts and measures will be effective or that attempted security breaches or disruptions would not be successful or damaging. Even the most well protected information, networks, systems and facilities remain potentially vulnerable because attempted security breaches, particularly cyber-attacks and intrusions, or disruptions will occur in the future, and because the techniques used in such attempts are constantly evolving and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, and in some cases are designed not to be detected and, in fact, may not be detected. Accordingly, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate security barriers or other preventative measures, and thus it is virtually impossible for us to entirely mitigate this risk. A security breach or other significant disruption of our information systems or those related to our customers, merchants and our third-party vendors, including as a result of cyber-attacks, could (1) disrupt the proper functioning of our networks and systems and therefore our operations and/or those of our customers; (2) result in the unauthorized access to, and destruction, loss, theft, misappropriation or release of confidential, sensitive or otherwise valuable information of ours or our customers; (3) result in a violation of applicable privacy, data breach and other laws, subjecting us to additional regulatory scrutiny and expose us to civil litigation, governmental fines and possible financial liability; (4) require significant management attention and resources to remedy the damages that result; or (5) harm our reputation or cause a decrease in the number of customers who choose to do business with us. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may be subject to claims and litigation pertaining to intellectual property.. Banking and other financial services companies, such as the Company, rely on technology companies to provide information technology products and services necessary to support the Company’s day-to-day operations. Technology companies often enter into litigation based on allegations of patent infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. In addition, patent holding companies seek to monetize patents they have purchased or otherwise obtained. Competitors of the Company’s vendors, or other individuals or companies, have from time to time claimed to hold intellectual property sold to the Company by its vendors. Such claims may increase in the future as the financial services sector becomes more reliant on information technology vendors. The plaintiffs in these actions often seek injunctions and substantial damages.. Regardless of the scope or validity of such patents or other intellectual property rights, or the merits of any claims by potential or actual litigants, the Company may have to engage in protracted litigation. Such litigation is often expensive, time consuming, disruptive to the Company’s operations, and distracting to management. If the Company is found to have infringed on one or more patents or other intellectual property rights, it may be required to pay substantial damages or royalties to a third party. In certain cases, the Company may consider entering into licensing agreements for disputed intellectual property, although no assurance can be given that such licenses can be obtained on acceptable terms or that litigation will not occur. These licenses may also significantly increase the Company’s operating expenses. If legal matters related to intellectual property claims were resolved against the Company or settled, the Company could be required to make payments in amounts that could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. The market price of our common stock may be volatile.. Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for our stockholders to resell their common stock when desired. Our common stock price may fluctuate significantly due to a variety of factors that include the following:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tactual or expected variations in quarterly results of operations;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trecommendations by securities analysts;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\toperating and stock price performance of comparable companies, as deemed by investors;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tnews reports relating to trends, concerns, and other issues in the financial services industry;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tperceptions in the marketplace about our Company or competitors;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tnew technology used, or services offered, by competitors;. 17. Table of Contents. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsignificant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, or capital commitments by, or involving, our Company or competitors;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfailure to integrate acquisitions or realize expected benefits from acquisitions;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in government regulations; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tgeopolitical conditions, such as acts or threats of terrorism or military action.. General market fluctuations; industry factors; political conditions; and general economic conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns, recessions, interest rate changes, or credit loss trends, could also cause our common stock price to decrease regardless of operating results.. The trading volume in our common stock is less than that of other larger financial services companies.. Although our common stock is listed for trading on the NASDAQ, the trading volume in our common stock is less than that of other, larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity, and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Given the lower trading volume of our common stock, significant sales of our common stock or the expectation of these sales could cause our stock price to fall.. We may not continue to pay dividends on our common stock in the future.. Our common stockholders are only entitled to receive dividends when declared by our Board of Directors from funds legally available for such payments. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so, and may reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in the future. This could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As a financial holding company, the Company’s ability to declare and pay dividends is dependent on certain federal regulatory considerations, including the guidelines of the Federal Reserve about capital adequacy and dividends. For additional information, see “Payment of Dividends” in Item 1 of this report."                                                       
