[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. The risks and uncertainties that management believes are material are described below. The risks listed are not the only risks that BancShares faces. Additional risks and uncertainties that are not currently known or that management does not currently deem material could also have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and/or the results of our operations or our business. If such risks and uncertainties were to materialize or the likelihoods of the risks were to increase, the market price of our common stock could significantly decline.. Operational Risks. We face cybersecurity risks where breaches of our and our vendors' information systems could expose us to attacks resulting in the unauthorized disclosure or loss of customer information, which could damage our business reputation and expose us to significant financial liability. We maintain and transmit large amounts of sensitive information electronically, including personal and financial information of our customers. In addition to our own systems, we also rely on external vendors to provide certain services and are therefore exposed to their information security risks. While we attempt to mitigate internal and external information security risks, the volume of business conducted through electronic devices continues to grow, and our computer systems and network infrastructure,. 7. as well as those of our external vendors and customers, present security risks including susceptibility to various attacks and/or identity theft.. As the result of our internet activities, we are also subject to risks arising from a broad range of cybersecurity attacks from both domestic and international sources which seek to obtain customer information for fraudulent purposes or, in some cases, to disrupt our business activities. Information security issues could result in reputational damage and lead to a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and financial results of operations.. We are exposed to losses related to credit and debit card fraud. As technology continues to evolve, criminals are using increasingly more sophisticated techniques to commit and hide fraudulent activity. Fraudulent activity can come in many forms, including debit card/credit card fraud, check fraud, electronic scanning devices attached to ATM machines, social engineering and phishing attacks to obtain personal information, and fraudulent impersonation of our clients through the use of falsified or stolen credentials. To counter the increased sophistication of these fraudulent activities, we have increased our spending on systems, technologies and controls to detect and prevent such fraud. Combating fraudulent activities as they evolve will result in continued ongoing investments in the future.. New technologies, and our ability to efficiently and effectively develop, market, and deliver new products and services to our customers, present competitive risks. The rapid growth of new technologies, including internet services, smart phones and other mobile devices, requires us to continuously evaluate our product and service offerings to ensure they remain competitive. Our success depends in part on our ability to adapt and deliver our products and services in a manner responsive to evolving industry standards and consumer preferences. New technologies by banks and non-bank service providers may create risks that our products and services are no longer competitive with then-current standards, and could negatively affect our ability to attract or maintain a loyal customer base. These risks may affect our ability to grow and could reduce both our revenue streams from certain products and services and our revenues generated by our net interest margins. Our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. We depend on key personnel for our success. Our success depends to a great extent on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. We have an experienced management team that our board of directors believes is capable of managing and growing our business. Losses of or changes in our current executive officers or other key personnel and their responsibilities may disrupt our business and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in retaining our current executive officers or other key personnel, or hiring additional key personnel to assist in executing our growth, expansion and acquisition strategies.. We are subject to litigation risks, and our expenses related to litigation may adversely affect our results. We are subject to litigation risks in the ordinary course of our business. Claims and legal actions, including supervisory actions by our regulators, that may be initiated against us from time to time, could involve large monetary sums and significant defense costs. During the last credit crisis, we saw both the number of cases and our expenses related to those cases increase. The outcomes of such cases are always uncertain until finally adjudicated or resolved.. We establish reserves for legal claims when payments associated with the claims become probable and our liability can be reasonably estimated. We may still incur legal costs for a matter even if we have not established a reserve. In addition, the actual amount paid in resolution of a legal claim may be substantially higher than any amounts reserved for the matter. The ultimate resolution of a legal proceeding, depending on the remedy sought and any relief granted, could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Substantial legal claims or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. We may be exposed to substantial uninsured legal liabilities and/or regulatory actions which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. For additional information, see Note T, \"Commitments and Contingencies,\" to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K.. We face significant operational risks in our businesses. Safely conducting and growing our business requires that we create and maintain an appropriate operational and organizational control infrastructure. Operational risk can arise in numerous ways, including employee fraud, customer fraud, and control lapses in bank operations and information technology. Our dependence on our employees, and internal and third party automated systems, to record and process transactions may further increase the risk that technical failures or system-tampering will result in losses that are difficult to detect. We may be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially. 8. beyond our control. Failure to maintain appropriate operational infrastructure and oversight can lead to loss of service to customers, legal actions, and noncompliance with various laws and regulations. We have implemented internal controls that are designed to safeguard and maintain our operational and organizational infrastructure and information. All internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation.. Our business and financial performance could be impacted by natural disasters, acts of war or terrorist activities. Natural disasters (including but not limited to earthquakes, hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, fires, explosions), acts of war and terrorist activities could hurt our performance (i) directly through damage to our facilities or other impact to our ability to conduct business in the ordinary course, and (ii) indirectly through such damage or impacts to our customers, suppliers or other counterparties. In particular, a significant amount of our business is concentrated in North Carolina and South Carolina, including in coastal areas where our retail and commercial customers could be impacted by hurricanes.  We could also suffer adverse results to the extent that disasters, wars or terrorist activities affect the broader markets or economy. Our ability to minimize the consequences of such events is in significant measure reliant on the quality of our disaster recovery planning and our ability, if any, to forecast the events.. Our financial performance depends upon our ability to attract and retain clients for our products and services, which ability may be adversely impacted by weakened consumer and/or business confidence, and by any inability on our part to predict and satisfy customers' needs and demands. Our financial performance is subject to risks associated with the loss of client confidence and demand. A fragile or weakening economy, or ambiguity surrounding the economic future, may lessen the demand for our products and services. Our performance may also be negatively impacted if we should fail to attract and retain customers because we are not able to successfully anticipate, develop and market products and services that satisfy market demands.  Such events could impact our performance through fewer loans, reduced fee income and fewer deposits, each of which could result in reduced net income.. We rely on external vendors. Third party vendors provide key components of our business infrastructure, including certain data processing and information services. A number of our vendors are large national entities with dominant market presence in their respective fields, and their services could be difficult to quickly replace in the event of failure or other interruption in service. Failures of certain vendors to provide services could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers. External vendors also present information security risks. We monitor vendor risks, including the financial stability of critical vendors. The failure of a critical external vendor could disrupt our business and cause us to incur significant expense.. Our business is highly quantitative and requires widespread use of financial models for day-to-day operations; these models may produce inaccurate predictions that significantly vary from actual results. We rely on quantitative models to measure risks and to estimate certain financial values.  Such models may be used in many processes including, but not limited to, the pricing of various products and services, classifications of loans, setting interest rates on loans and deposits, quantifying interest rate and other market risks, forecasting losses, measuring capital adequacy, and calculating economic and regulatory capital levels.  Models may also be used to estimate the value of financial instruments and balance sheet items.  Inaccurate or erroneous models present the risk that business decisions relying on the models will prove inefficient or ineffective. Additionally, information we provide to our investors and regulators may be negatively impacted by inaccurately designed or implemented models.  For further information on models, see the Risk Management section included in Item 7 of this Form 10-K.. Failure to maintain effective system of internal control over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and disclosures. We must have effective internal controls over financial reporting in order to provide reliable financial reports, to effectively prevent fraud, and to operate successfully as a public company. If we were unable to provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results would be harmed. As part of our ongoing monitoring of our internal controls over financial reporting, we may discover material weaknesses or significant deficiencies requiring remediation. A \"material weakness\" is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal controls over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of a company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.. We continually work to improve our internal controls; however, we cannot be certain that these measures will ensure appropriate and adequate controls over our future financial processes and reporting. Any failure to maintain effective controls or to timely implement any necessary improvement of our internal controls could, among other things, result in losses from fraud or error,. 9. harm our reputation, or cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and the market value of our common stock.. The value of our goodwill may decline in the future. At December 31, 2017, we had $150.6 million of goodwill recorded as an asset on our balance sheet. We test goodwill for impairment at least annually, comparing the estimated fair value of a reporting unit with its net book value. We also test goodwill for impairment when certain events occur, such as a significant decline in our expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate, or a sustained decline in the price of our common stock. These tests may result in a write-off of goodwill deemed to be impaired, which could have a significant impact on our financial results; however, any such write-off would not impact our regulatory capital ratios, given that regulatory capital ratios are calculated using tangible capital amounts.. We may be adversely affected by risks associated with completed, pending or any potential future acquisitions. We plan to continue to grow our business organically. However, we have pursued and expect to continue to pursue acquisition opportunities that we believe support our business strategies and may enhance our profitability. We must generally satisfy a number of material conditions prior to consummating any acquisition including, in many cases, federal and state regulatory approval. We may fail to complete strategic and competitively significant business opportunities as a result of our inability to obtain any required regulatory approvals in a timely manner or at all.. Acquisitions of financial institutions or assets of financial institutions involve operational risks and uncertainties, and acquired companies or assets may have unknown or contingent liabilities, exposure to unexpected asset quality problems that require write downs or write-offs, difficulty retaining key employees and customers, and other issues that could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We may not be able to realize projected cost savings, synergies or other benefits associated with any such acquisition. Failure to efficiently integrate any acquired entities or assets into our existing operations could significantly increase our operating costs and have material adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in identifying or consummating any potential acquisitions.. Accounting standards may change and increase our operating costs and/or otherwise adversely affect our results. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) and the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) periodically modify the standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. The nature of these changes is not predictable and could impact how we record transactions in our financial statements, which could lead to material changes in assets, liabilities, shareholders' equity, revenues, expenses and net income. In some cases, we could be required to apply new or revised standards retroactively, resulting in changes to previously-reported financial results or a cumulative adjustment to retained earnings. Application of new accounting rules or standards could require us to implement costly technology changes.. Credit Risks. Our concentration of loans to borrowers within the medical and dental industry could impair our earnings if those industries experience economic difficulties. Statutory or regulatory changes (e.g., Affordable Care Act), or economic conditions in the market generally, could negatively impact the borrowers' businesses and their ability to repay their loans with us, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, smaller practices such as those in the dental industry generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities, and generally have a heightened vulnerability to negative economic conditions. Consequently, we could be required to increase our allowance for loan losses through additional provisions on our income statement, which would reduce reported net income. See Note D for additional discussion.. Economic conditions in real estate markets and our reliance on junior liens may adversely impact our business and our results of operations. Real property collateral values may be impacted by economic conditions in the real estate market and may result in losses on loans that, while adequately collateralized at the time of origination, become inadequately collateralized.  Our reliance on junior liens is concentrated in our non-commercial revolving mortgage loan portfolio. Approximately two-thirds of the revolving mortgage portfolio is secured by junior lien positions and lower real estate values for collateral underlying these loans may cause the outstanding balance of the senior lien to exceed the value of the collateral, resulting in a junior lien loan that is effectively unsecured. Inadequate collateral values, rising interest rates and unfavorable economic conditions could result in greater delinquencies, write-downs or charge-offs in future periods, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and capital adequacy.. 10. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio. We maintain an allowance for loan losses that is designed to cover losses on loans that borrowers may not repay in their entirety. We believe that we maintain an allowance for loan losses at a level adequate to absorb probable losses inherent in the loan portfolio as of the corresponding balance sheet date, and in compliance with applicable accounting and regulatory guidance. However, the allowance may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Accounting measurements related to impairment and the allowance require significant estimates that are subject to uncertainty, and revisions driven by new information and changing circumstances. The significant uncertainties surrounding our borrowers' abilities to conduct their businesses successfully through changing economic environments, competitive challenges, and other factors complicate our estimates of the risk and/or amount of loss on any loan. Due to the degree of uncertainty and the susceptibility to change, the actual losses may vary from current estimates. We also expect fluctuations in the allowance due to economic changes nationally as well as locally within the states we conduct business.. As an integral part of their examination process, our banking regulators periodically review the allowance and may require us to increase it for loan losses by recognizing additional provisions for loan losses charged to expense or to decrease the allowance by recognizing loan charge-offs, net of recoveries. Any such required additional loan loss provisions or charge-offs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. If we fail to effectively manage credit risk, our business and financial condition will suffer. We must effectively manage credit risk. There are risks inherent in making any loan, including risks of repayment, risks with respect to the period of time over which the loan may be repaid, risks relating to proper loan underwriting and guidelines, risks resulting from changes in economic and industry conditions, risks inherent in dealing with individual borrowers and risks resulting from uncertainties as to the future value of collateral. There is no assurance that our loan approval procedures and our credit risk monitoring are or will be adequate to or will reduce the inherent risks associated with lending. Our credit administration personnel, policies and procedures may not adequately adapt to changes in economic or other conditions affecting customers and the quality of our loan portfolio. Any failure to manage such credit risks may materially adversely affect our business, and our consolidated results of operations and financial condition.. Our financial condition could be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty and/or other relationships. We have exposure to numerous financial service providers, including banks, securities brokers and dealers, and other financial service providers. Although we monitor the financial conditions of financial institutions with which we have credit exposure, transactions with those institutions expose us to credit risk through the possibility of counterparty default.. Market Risks. Unfavorable economic conditions could adversely affect our business. Our business is subject to periodic fluctuations based on national, regional and local economic conditions. These fluctuations are not predictable, cannot be controlled, and may have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial condition. Our banking operations are located within several states but are locally oriented and community-based.  Our retail and commercial banking activities are primarily concentrated within the same geographic footprint.  Our markets include the Southeast, Mid-Atlantic, Midwest, and Western United States, with our greatest presence in North Carolina and South Carolina.  Worsening economic conditions within our markets, particularly within North Carolina and South Carolina, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Accordingly, we expect to continue to be dependent upon local business conditions as well as conditions in the local residential and commercial real estate markets we serve. Unfavorable changes in unemployment, real estate values, interest rates and other factors could weaken the economies of the communities we serve. In recent years, economic growth and business activity across a wide range of industries has been slow and uneven, and there can be no assurance that economic conditions will continue to improve or that these conditions will not worsen. In addition, the political environment, the level of U.S. debt and global economic conditions can have a destabilizing effect on financial markets. Weakness in any of our market areas could have an adverse impact on our earnings, and consequently our financial condition and capital adequacy.. 11. Accounting for acquired assets may result in earnings volatility. Fair value discounts that are recorded at the time an asset is acquired are accreted into interest income based on U.S. GAAP. The rate at which those discounts are accreted is unpredictable, the result of various factors including prepayments and changes in credit quality. Post-acquisition deterioration results in the recognition of provision expense and allowance for loan and lease losses. Additionally, the income statement impact of adjustments to the indemnification asset recorded in certain FDIC-assisted transactions may occur over a shorter period of time than the adjustments to the covered assets.. Fair value discount accretion, post-acquisition impairment and adjustments to the indemnification asset may result in significant volatility in our earnings. Volatility in earnings could unfavorably influence investor interest in our common stock thereby depressing the market value of our stock and the market capitalization of our company.. The performance of equity securities and corporate bonds in the investment portfolio could be adversely impacted by the soundness and fluctuations in the market values of other financial institutions. Our investment securities portfolio contains certain equity securities and corporate bonds of other financial institutions. As a result, a portion of our investment securities portfolio is subject to fluctuation due to changes in the financial stability and market value of other financial institutions, as well as interest rate sensitivity to economic and market conditions. Such fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. Failure to effectively manage our interest rate risk could adversely affect us. Our results of operations and cash flows are highly dependent upon net interest income. Interest rates are sensitive to economic and market conditions that are beyond our control, including the actions of the Federal Reserve Board's Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC). Changes in monetary policy could influence interest income and interest expense as well as the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities. If changes in interest rates on our interest-earning assets are not equal to the changes in interest rates on our interest-bearing liabilities, our net interest income and, therefore, our net income, could be adversely impacted.. As interest rates rise, our interest expense will increase and our net interest margins may decrease, negatively impacting our performance and, potentially, our financial condition. To the extent banks and other financial service providers were to compete for interest-bearing deposit accounts through higher interest rates, our deposit base could be reduced if we are unwilling to pay those higher rates; if we should determine to compete with those higher interest rates, our cost of funds could increase and our net interest margins could be reduced. Additionally, higher interest rates will impact our ability to originate new loans. Increases in interest rates could adversely affect the ability of our borrowers to meet higher payment obligations. If this occurred, it could cause an increase in nonperforming assets and net charge-offs, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. Although we maintain an interest rate risk monitoring system, the forecasts of future net interest income are estimates and may be inaccurate. Actual interest rate movements may differ from our forecasts, and unexpected actions by the FOMC may have a direct impact on market interest rates.. Liquidity Risks. If our current level of balance sheet liquidity were to experience pressure, that could affect our ability to pay deposits and fund our operations. Our deposit base represents our primary source of core funding and balance sheet liquidity. We normally have the ability to stimulate core deposit growth through reasonable and effective pricing strategies. However, in circumstances where our ability to generate needed liquidity is impaired, we need access to noncore funding such as borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) and the Federal Reserve, Federal Funds purchased lines, and brokered deposits. While we maintain access to these noncore funding sources, some sources are dependent on the availability of collateral as well as the counterparty's willingness and ability to lend.. Capital Adequacy Risks. Our ability to grow is contingent on access to capital. Our primary capital sources have been retained earnings and debt issued through both private and public markets. Rating agencies regularly evaluate our creditworthiness and assign credit ratings to our debt and the debt of FCB. The ratings of the agencies are based on a number of factors, some of which are outside our control. In addition to factors specific to our financial strength and performance, the rating agencies also consider conditions generally affecting the financial services industry. There can be no assurance that we will maintain our current credit ratings. Rating reductions could adversely affect our access to funding sources and the cost of obtaining funding.. 12. Based on existing capital levels, BancShares and FCB are well-capitalized under current leverage and risk-based capital standards. Our ability to grow is contingent on our ability to generate sufficient capital to remain well-capitalized under current and future capital adequacy guidelines.. We are subject to capital adequacy and liquidity guidelines and, if we fail to meet these guidelines, our financial condition would be adversely affected. Under regulatory capital adequacy guidelines and other regulatory requirements, BancShares, together with FCB, must meet certain capital and liquidity guidelines, subject to qualitative judgments by regulators about components, risk weightings, and other factors.. The Federal Reserve Bank (FRB) issued capital rules that established a new comprehensive capital framework for U.S. banking institutions and established a more conservative definition of capital. These requirements, known as Basel III, became effective January 1, 2015, and, as a result, we became subject to enhanced minimum capital and leverage ratios. These requirements could adversely affect our ability to pay dividends, restrict certain business activities or compel us to raise capital, each of which may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. In addition, the costs associated with complying with more stringent capital requirements, such as the requirement to formulate and submit capital plans based on pre-defined stress scenarios on an annual basis, could have an adverse effect on us. See the Supervision and Regulation section included in Item 7 of this Form 10-K for additional information regarding the capital requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act and Basel III.. Compliance Risks. We operate in a highly regulated industry; the laws and regulations that govern our operations, taxes, corporate governance, executive compensation and financial accounting, or reporting, including changes in them or our failure to comply with them, may adversely affect us. We are subject to extensive regulation and supervision that govern almost all aspects of our operations. In addition to a multitude of regulations designed to protect customers, depositors and consumers, we must comply with other regulations that protect the deposit insurance fund and the stability of the United States' (U.S.) financial system, including laws and regulations which, among other matters, prescribe minimum capital requirements; impose limitations on our business activities and investments; limit the dividends or distributions that we can pay; restrict the ability of our bank subsidiaries to guarantee our debt; and impose certain specific accounting requirements that may be more restrictive and may result in greater or earlier charges to earnings or reductions in our capital than accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). Compliance with laws and regulations can be difficult and costly, and changes in laws and regulations often impose additional compliance costs.. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations issued by the SEC and NASDAQ, as well as numerous other recently enacted statutes and regulations, including the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations promulgated thereunder, have increased the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance and reporting and disclosure practices, including the costs of completing our external audit and maintaining our internal controls. Such additional regulation and supervision may limit our ability to pursue business opportunities.. The failure to comply with these various rules and regulations could subject us to restrictions on our business activities, including mergers and acquisitions, fines and other penalties, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations, capital base and the price of our common stock.. We may be adversely affected by changes in U.S. tax and other laws and regulations. Corporate tax rates affect our profitability and capital levels. The U.S. corporate tax code may be further reformed by the U.S. Congress and additional guidance may be issued by the U.S. Department of the Treasury relevant to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act that was signed into law on December 22, 2017. It is not possible at this time to quantify the ongoing impacts additional reform or guidance might have on our business or financial condition.. Strategic Risks. We encounter significant competition which may reduce our market share and profitability. We compete with other banks and specialized financial service providers in our market areas. Our primary competitors include local, regional and national banks; credit unions; commercial finance companies; various wealth management providers; independent and captive insurance agencies; mortgage companies; and non-bank providers of financial services. Some of our larger competitors, including certain banks with a significant presence in our market areas, have the capacity to offer products and services we do not offer. Some of our non-bank competitors operate in less stringent regulatory environments, and certain competitors are not subject to federal and/or state income taxes. The fierce competitive pressures that we face adversely affect pricing for many of our products and services.. 13. Certain provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws may prevent a change in management or a takeover attempt that you might consider to be in your best interests. Certain provisions contained in our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws could delay or prevent the removal of directors and other management.  The provisions could also delay or make more difficult a tender offer, merger, or proxy contest that you might consider to be in your best interests. For example, our Certificate of Incorporation and/or Bylaws:. • allow our Board of Directors to issue and set the terms of preferred shares without further shareholder approval;. • limit who can call a special meeting of shareholders; and. • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the Board of Directors and proposals of other   business to be considered at annual meetings of shareholders.. These provisions, as well as provisions of the BHCA and other relevant statutes and regulations which require advance notice and/or applications for regulatory approval of changes in control of banks and bank holding companies, may discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price, adversely affecting its market price. Additionally, the fact that the Holding family holds or controls shares representing a majority of the voting power of our common stock may discourage potential takeover attempts and/or bids for our common stock at a premium over market price.. The market price of our stock may be volatile. Although publicly traded, our common stock has less liquidity and public float than many other large publicly traded financial services companies. Low liquidity increases the price volatility of our stock and could make it difficult for our shareholders to sell or buy our common stock at specific prices.. Excluding the impact of liquidity, the market price of our common stock can fluctuate widely in response to other factors, including expectations of financial and operating results, actual operating results, actions of institutional shareholders, speculation in the press or the investment community, market perception of acquisitions, rating agency upgrades or downgrades, stock prices of other companies that are similar to us, general market expectations related to the financial services industry, and the potential impact of government actions affecting the financial services industry.. We rely on dividends from FCB. As a financial holding company, we are a separate legal entity from FCB. We derive most of our revenue and cash flow from dividends paid by FCB. These dividends are the primary source from which we pay dividends on our common stock and interest and principal on our debt obligations. State and federal laws impose restrictions on the dividends that FCB may pay to us. In the event FCB is unable to pay dividends to us for an extended period of time, we may not be able to service our debt obligations or pay dividends on our common stock."
