[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. Risk factors which could cause actual results to differ from our expectations and which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations are discussed below and elsewhere in this report. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that are currently not believed to be significant to our business may also affect our actual results and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any of the risks or uncertainties described below or any additional risks and uncertainties actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. 10. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS. A failure of, or interruption in, the communications and information systems on which we rely to conduct our business could adversely affect our revenues and profitability.. We rely heavily upon communications and information systems to conduct our business. Although we have built a level of redundancy into our information technology infrastructure and update our business continuity plan annually, any failure or interruption of our information systems, or the third-party information systems on which we rely, as a result of inadequate or failed processes or systems, human errors or external events, could adversely affect our Internet-based operations and slow the processing of applications, loan servicing, and deposit-related transactions. In addition, our communication and information systems may present security risks and could be susceptible to hacking or other unauthorized access. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our commercial loan portfolio exposes us to higher credit risks than residential real estate and consumer loans, including risks relating to the success of the underlying business and conditions in the market or the economy and concentrations in our commercial loan portfolio.. We are growing our CRE and C&I loan portfolios. At December 31, 2017, CRE loans amounted to $935.6 million, or 44.8% of total loans, and C&I loans amounted to $122.9 million, or 5.9% of total loans.  These loans generally involve higher credit risks than residential real estate and consumer loans and are dependent upon our lenders maintaining close relationships with the borrowers. Payments on these loans are often dependent upon the successful operation and management of the underlying business or assets, and repayment of such loans may be influenced to a great extent by conditions in the market or the economy. Commercial loans typically involve larger loan balances than residential real estate or consumer loans and could lead to concentration risks within our commercial loan portfolio. In addition, our C&I loans have primarily been extended to small to medium sized businesses that generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities. Our failure to manage this commercial loan growth and the related risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, with respect to commercial real estate loans, federal and state banking regulators are examining commercial real estate lending activity with heightened scrutiny and may require banks with higher levels of commercial real estate loans to implement more stringent underwriting, internal controls, risk management policies and portfolio stress testing, as well as possibly higher levels of allowances for losses and capital levels as a result of commercial real estate lending growth and exposures. Because a significant portion of our loan portfolio is comprised of commercial real estate loans, the banking regulators may require us to maintain higher levels of capital than we would otherwise be expected to maintain, which could limit our ability to leverage our capital and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Weakness in the economy may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the economy.  Dramatic declines in the housing market following the 2008 financial crisis, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. While conditions have improved, a return to a recessionary economy could result in financial stress on our borrowers that would adversely affect consumer confidence, a reduction in general business activity and increased market volatility. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses and the lack of confidence in the financial markets could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. Our ability to properly assess the creditworthiness of our customers and to estimate the losses inherent in our credit exposure would be made more complex by these difficult market and economic conditions. Accordingly, if market conditions worsen, we may experience increases in foreclosures, delinquencies, write-offs and customer bankruptcies, as well as more restricted access to funds.. The market value of some of our investments could decline and adversely affect our financial position.. As of December 31, 2017, we had a net unrealized pre-tax holding loss of approximately $8.1 million on the available-for-sale portion of our $473.3 million investment securities portfolio.  In assessing the impairment of investment securities, we consider the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than cost, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuers, whether the market decline was affected by macroeconomic conditions and whether we have the intent to sell the security or will be required to sell the security before its anticipated recovery. We also use economic models to assist in the valuation of some of our investment securities. If our investment securities experience a decline in value, we would need to determine whether the decline represented an other-than-temporary impairment, in which case we would be required to record a write-down of the investment and a corresponding charge to our earnings.. 11. Because our business is highly dependent on technology that is subject to rapid change and transformation, we are subject to risks of obsolescence.. The Bank conducts its deposit gathering activities and a significant portion of its residential mortgage lending activities through the Internet.  The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological change, and we face constant evolution of customer demand for technology-driven financial and banking products and services.  Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvement and product development, marketing and implementation.  Any failure to successfully keep pace with and fund technological innovation in the markets in which we compete could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may need additional capital resources in the future and these capital resources may not be available when needed or at all, without which our financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially impaired.. If we continue to experience significant growth, we may need to raise additional capital. Our ability to raise capital, if needed, will depend upon our financial performance and on conditions in the capital markets, as well as economic conditions generally. Accordingly, such financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The competitive nature of the banking and financial services industry could negatively affect our ability to increase our market share and retain long term profitability.. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is strong. We compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, financial technology companies, mutual funds, insurance companies and securities brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and nationwide. Some of our competitors have greater name recognition and market presence than we do and offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do, which could affect our ability to increase our market share and remain profitable on a long term basis. Our success will depend on the ability of the Bank to compete successfully on a long term basis within the financial services industry.. We rely on our management team and could be adversely affected by the unexpected loss of key officers.. Our future success and profitability is substantially dependent upon our management and the abilities of our senior executives. We believe that our future results will also depend in part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified management. Competition for senior personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. Changes in key personnel and their responsibilities may be disruptive to our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In particular, the loss of our chief executive officer could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our profitability and affect the value of our assets.. Like other financial institutions, we are subject to interest rate risk. Our primary source of income is net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and interest paid on deposits and borrowings. We expect that we will periodically experience imbalances in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities and the relationships of various interest rates to each other. Over any defined period of time, our interest-earning assets may be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-bearing liabilities, or vice-versa. In addition, the individual market interest rates underlying our loan and deposit products may not change to the same degree over a given time period. In any event, if market interest rates should move contrary to our position, earnings may be negatively affected. In addition, loan volume and quality and deposit volume and mix can be affected by market interest rates as can the businesses of our clients. Changes in levels of market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our net interest spread, asset quality, loan origination volume, deposit gathering efforts and overall profitability.. Market interest rates are beyond our control, and they fluctuate in response to economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular, the Federal Reserve. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, may negatively affect our ability to originate loans and leases, the value of our assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of our assets, all of which ultimately could affect our earnings.. 12. An inadequate allowance for loan losses would reduce our earnings and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the quality of our assets, particularly the credit quality of our loans. In originating loans, there is a substantial likelihood that credit losses will be experienced.  We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, that represents management's best estimate of probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio. The level of the allowance reflects management's continuing evaluation of industry concentrations; specific credit risks; loan loss experience; current loan portfolio quality; present economic, political and regulatory conditions; and unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and judgment and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in such estimates may have a significant impact on our financial statements. The allowance our management has established for loan losses may not be adequate to absorb losses in our loan portfolio. Continuing deterioration of economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses.. Bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of our management. To the extent required charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses, we may need additional provisions to increase the allowance. Any increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income, which would negatively impact capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.. Consumer loans in our portfolio generally have greater risk of loss or default than residential real estate loans and may make it necessary to increase our provision for loan losses.. At December 31, 2017, our consumer loans, excluding residential mortgage loans and home equity loans, totaled $227.5 million, representing approximately 10.8% of our total loan portfolio at such date.  A substantial portion of our consumer loans are horse trailer and recreational vehicle loans acquired through our indirect dealer network. Consumer loans generally have a greater risk of loss or default than do residential mortgage loans, particularly in the case of loans that are secured by rapidly depreciating assets such as horse trailer and recreational vehicles. In such cases, any repossessed collateral for a defaulted consumer loan may not provide an adequate source of repayment of the outstanding loan balance as a result of the greater likelihood of damage, loss or depreciation. In addition, consumer loan collections are dependent on the borrower's continuing financial stability, and thus are more likely to be adversely affected by job loss, divorce, illness or personal bankruptcy. Furthermore, the application of various federal and state laws, including federal and state bankruptcy and insolvency laws, may limit the amount which can be recovered on such loans. It may become necessary to increase our provision for loan losses in the event that our losses on these loans increase, which would reduce our earnings and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Portions of our commercial lending activities are geographically concentrated in Central Indiana and adjacent markets, and changes in local economic conditions may impact their performance.. We offer our residential mortgage and consumer lending as well as public finance and single tenant financing products and services throughout the United States. However, we serve CRE and C&I borrowers primarily in Central Indiana and adjacent markets. Accordingly, the performance of our CRE and C&I lending depends upon demographic and economic conditions in those regions. The profitability of our CRE and C&I loan portfolio may be impacted by changes in those conditions. Additionally, unfavorable local economic conditions could reduce or limit the growth rate of our CRE and C&I loan portfolios for a significant period of time, or otherwise decrease the ability of those borrowers to repay their loans, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Because of our holding company structure, we depend on capital distributions from the Bank to fund our operations.. We are a separate and distinct legal entity from the Bank and have no business activities other than our ownership of the Bank. As a result, we primarily depend on dividends, distributions and other payments from the Bank to fund our obligations. The ability of the Bank to pay dividends to us is limited by state and federal law and depends generally on the Bank's ability to generate net income. If we are unable to comply with applicable provisions of these statutes and regulations, the Bank may not be able to pay dividends to us, and we would not be able to pay dividends on our outstanding common stock and our ability to service our debt would be materially impaired.. 13. Lack of seasoning of our commercial loan portfolios may increase the risk of credit defaults in the future.. Due to our increasing emphasis on CRE, public finance and C&I lending, a substantial amount of the loans in our commercial loan portfolios and our lending relationships are of relatively recent origin. In general, loans do not begin to show signs of credit deterioration or default until they have been outstanding for some period of time, a process referred to as \"seasoning.\" A portfolio of older loans will usually behave more predictably than a newer portfolio. As a result, because a large portion of our commercial loan portfolio is relatively new, the current level of delinquencies and defaults may not be representative of the level that will prevail when the portfolio becomes more seasoned, which may be higher than current levels. If delinquencies and defaults increase, we may be required to increase our provision for loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. A sustained decline in the residential mortgage loan market could reduce loan origination activity or increase delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures, which could adversely affect our financial results.. Historically, our mortgage loan business has provided a significant portion of our revenue and our ability to maintain or grow that revenue is dependent upon our ability to originate loans and sell them in the secondary market.  Revenue from mortgage banking activities was $7.8 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2017 and $12.4 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2016.  Mortgage loan originations are sensitive to changes in economic conditions, including decreased economic activity, a slowdown in the housing market, and higher market interest rates, and has historically been cyclical, enjoying periods of strong growth and profitability followed by periods of lower volumes and market-wide losses. During periods of rising interest rates, refinancing originations for many mortgage products tend to decrease as the economic incentives for borrowers to refinance their existing mortgage loans are reduced. In addition, the mortgage loan origination business is affected by changes in real property values. A reduction in real property values could also negatively affect our ability to originate mortgage loans because the value of the real properties underlying the loans is a primary source of repayment in the event of foreclosure. The national market for residential mortgage loan refinancing has declined in recent years and future declines could adversely impact our business. Any sustained period of increased delinquencies, foreclosures or losses could harm our ability to originate and sell mortgage loans, and the price received on the sale of such loans, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Reputational risk and social factors may negatively affect us.. Our ability to attract and retain customers is highly dependent upon other external perceptions of our business practices and financial condition. Adverse perceptions could damage our reputation to a level that could lead to difficulties in generating and maintaining lending and deposit relationships and accessing equity or credit markets as well as increased regulatory scrutiny of our business.  Adverse developments or perceptions regarding the business practices or financial condition of our competitors, or our industry as a whole, may also indirectly adversely affect our reputation.. In addition, adverse reputational developments with respect to third parties with whom we have important relationships may negatively affect our reputation. All of the above factors may result in greater regulatory and/or legislative scrutiny, which may lead to laws or regulations that may change or constrain the manner in which we engage with our customers and the products we offer and may also increase our litigation risk. If these risks were to materialize, they could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. A failure in or breach of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of our third party vendors and other service providers, including as a result of cyber-attacks, could disrupt our business, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and cause losses.. We depend upon our ability to process, record and monitor our client transactions on a continuous basis. As customer, public and regulatory expectations regarding operational and information security have increased, our operational systems and infrastructure must continue to be safeguarded and monitored for potential failures, disruptions and breakdowns. Our business, financial, accounting and data processing systems, or other operating systems and facilities, may stop operating properly or become disabled or damaged as a result of a number of factors, including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control. For example, there could be electrical or telecommunications outages; natural disasters such as earthquakes, tornadoes and hurricanes; disease pandemics; events arising from local or larger scale political or social matters, including terrorist acts; and, as described below, cyber-attacks. Although we have business continuity plans and other safeguards in place, our business operations may be adversely affected by significant and widespread disruption to our physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our business.. 14. Information security risks for financial institutions such as ours have generally increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the Internet and digital technologies to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists, activists and other external parties. As noted above, our operations rely on the secure processing, transmission and storage of confidential information in our computer systems and networks. Our business relies on our digital technologies, computer and email systems, software and networks to conduct its operations. In addition, to access our products and services, our customers may use personal smartphones, tablets, personal computers and other mobile devices that are beyond our control systems. Although we have information security procedures and controls in place, our technologies, systems, networks and our customers' devices may become the target of cyber-attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of our or our customers' confidential, proprietary and other information, or otherwise disrupt our or our customers' or other third parties' business operations.. Third parties with whom we do business or that facilitate our business activities, including financial intermediaries or vendors that provide services or security solutions for our operations, could also be sources of operational and information security risk to us, including from breakdowns or failures of their own systems or capacity constraints. Although to date we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber-attacks or other information security breaches, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future. Our risk and exposure to these matters remains heightened because of the evolving nature of these threats. As a result, cybersecurity and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and practices designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a focus for us. As threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate information security vulnerabilities.. Disruptions or failures in the physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our business and clients, or cyber-attacks or security breaches of the networks, systems or devices that our clients use to access our products and services could result in client attrition, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, reputational damage, claims or litigation, reimbursement or other compensation costs and/or additional compliance costs, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. RISKS RELATING TO THE REGULATION OF OUR INDUSTRY. We operate in a highly regulated environment, which could restrain our growth and profitability.. We are subject to extensive laws and regulations that govern almost all aspects of our operations. These laws and regulations, and the supervisory framework that oversees the administration of these laws and regulations, are primarily intended to protect depositors, the DIF and the banking system as a whole, and not shareholders. These laws and regulations, among other matters, affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy, operations and growth. Compliance with the myriad laws and regulations applicable to our organization can be difficult and costly. In addition, these laws, regulations and policies are subject to continual review by governmental authorities, and changes to these laws, regulations and policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of these laws, regulations and policies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways and often impose additional compliance costs. Further, any new laws, rules and regulations could make compliance more difficult or expensive. All of these laws and regulations, and the supervisory framework applicable to our industry, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Federal and state regulators periodically examine our business and we may be required to remediate adverse examination findings.. The Federal Reserve, the FDIC and the DFI periodically examine our business, including our compliance with laws and regulations. If, as a result of an examination, a federal or state banking agency were to determine that our financial condition, capital resources, asset quality, earnings prospects, management, liquidity or other aspects of any of our operations had become unsatisfactory, or that we were in violation of any law or regulation, it may take a number of different remedial actions as it deems appropriate. These actions include the power to enjoin \"unsafe or unsound\" practices, to require affirmative action to correct any conditions resulting from any violation or practice, to issue an administrative order that can be judicially enforced, to direct an increase in our capital, to restrict our growth, to assess civil monetary penalties against our officers or directors, to remove officers and directors and, if it is concluded that such conditions cannot be corrected or there is an imminent risk of loss to depositors, to terminate our deposit insurance and place us into receivership or conservatorship. Any regulatory action against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 15. Our FDIC deposit insurance premiums and assessments may increase which would reduce our profitability.. The deposits of the Bank are insured by the FDIC up to legal limits and, accordingly, subject to the payment of FDIC deposit insurance assessments. The Bank's regular assessments are determined by its risk classification, which is based on a number of factors, including regulatory capital levels, asset growth and asset quality. High levels of bank failures during and following the financial crisis and increases in the statutory deposit insurance limits have increased resolution costs to the FDIC and put significant pressure on the DIF. In order to maintain a strong funding position and restore the reserve ratios of the DIF, the FDIC may increase deposit insurance assessment rates and may charge a special assessment to all FDIC-insured financial institutions. Further increases in assessment rates or special assessments may occur in the future, especially if there are significant additional financial institution failures. Any future special assessments, increases in assessment rates or required prepayments in FDIC insurance premiums could reduce our profitability or limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The long-term impact of regulatory capital rules is uncertain and a significant increase in our capital requirements could have an adverse effect on our business and profitability.. In 2013, the FDIC and the Federal Reserve substantially amended the regulatory risk-based capital rules applicable to the Company and the Bank by implementing the \"Basel III\" regulatory capital reforms and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act.  The final rule included new minimum risk-based capital and leverage ratios, which became effective for the Company and the Bank in 2015, and refined the definition of what constitutes \"capital\" for purposes of calculating these ratios. The resulting minimum capital requirements are: (i) a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%; (ii) a Tier 1 to risk-based assets capital ratio of 6%; (iii) a total capital ratio of 8%; and (iv) a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4%. The final rule also establishes a \"capital conservation buffer\" of 2.5%, and, when fully phased in, will result in the following minimum ratios: (i) a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 7.0%; (ii) a Tier 1 to risk-based assets capital ratio of 8.5%; and (iii) a total capital ratio of 10.5%. The capital conservation buffer requirement began being phased-in in January 2016 at 0.625% of risk-weighted assets and will increase by an additional 0.625% each year until fully implemented in January 2019. An institution will be subject to limitations on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases, and paying discretionary bonuses if its capital level falls below the buffer amount. These limitations establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that can be used for such actions.. The application of more stringent capital requirements for both the Company and the Bank could, among other things, result in lower returns on equity, require the raising of additional capital, and result in regulatory actions constraining us from paying dividends or repurchasing shares if we were to be unable to comply with such requirements, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and profitability.. We are subject to numerous laws designed to protect consumers, including the Community Reinvestment Act and fair lending laws, and failure to comply with these laws could lead to a wide variety of sanctions.. The Community Reinvestment Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act and other fair lending laws and regulations impose nondiscriminatory lending requirements on financial institutions. The Department of Justice and other federal agencies are responsible for enforcing these laws and regulations. A successful regulatory challenge to an institution's performance under the Community Reinvestment Act or fair lending laws and regulations could result in a wide variety of sanctions, including damages and civil money penalties, injunctive relief, restrictions on mergers and acquisitions activity, restrictions on expansion and restrictions on entering new business lines. Private parties may also have the ability to challenge an institution's performance under fair lending laws in private class action litigation. Such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to evolving and expensive regulations and requirements. Our failure to adhere to these requirements or the failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures could seriously harm our business.. We are subject to extensive regulation as a financial institution and are also required to follow the corporate governance and financial reporting practices and policies required of a company whose stock is registered under the Exchange Act and listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market. Compliance with these requirements means we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur before 2013 and are not reflected in our historical financial statements prior to that time. Compliance also requires a significant diversion of management time and attention, particularly with regard to disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. Although we have reviewed, and will continue to review, our disclosure controls and procedures in order to determine whether they are effective, our controls and procedures may not be able to prevent errors or frauds in the future. Faulty judgments, simple errors or mistakes, or the failure of our personnel to adhere to established controls and procedures may make it difficult for us to ensure that the objectives of the control system will be met. A failure of our controls and procedures to detect other than inconsequential errors or fraud could seriously harm our business and results of operations.. 16. We face a risk of noncompliance with and enforcement action under the BSA and other anti-money laundering statutes and regulations.. The BSA, the USA PATRIOT Act and other laws and regulations require financial institutions, among other duties, to institute and maintain an effective anti-money laundering program and file suspicious activity and currency transaction reports as appropriate. The federal Financial Crimes Enforcement Network is authorized to impose significant civil money penalties for violations of those requirements and has engaged in coordinated enforcement efforts with the individual federal banking regulators, as well as the U.S. Department of Justice, Drug Enforcement Administration and Internal Revenue Service. We are also subject to increased scrutiny of compliance with the rules enforced by the OFAC.  If our policies, procedures and systems are deemed deficient, we would be subject to liability, including fines and regulatory actions, which may include restrictions on our ability to pay dividends and the necessity to obtain regulatory approvals to proceed with certain aspects of our business plan, including our acquisition plans. Failure to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could also have serious reputational consequences for us. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR SECURITIES. There is a limited trading market for our common stock and you may not be able to resell your shares.. Our common stock began trading on the Nasdaq Capital Market on February 22, 2013.  We have since completed several offerings of our common stock and our securities have been listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market since September 30, 2016.  However, trading remains relatively limited. Although we expect that a more liquid market for our common stock will develop, we cannot guarantee that you would be able to resell shares of our common stock at an attractive price or at all.. The market price of our common stock can be volatile and may decline.. Securities that are not heavily traded can be more volatile than stock trading in an active market. Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for you to resell your common stock when you want and at prices you find attractive. Our stock price can fluctuate significantly and may decline in response to a variety of factors including:. • Actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations;. • Developments in our business or the financial sector generally;. • Recommendations by securities analysts;. • Operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us;. • News reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry;. • Perceptions in the marketplace regarding us or our competitors;. • New technology used or services offered by competitors;. • Significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint venture or capital commitments by or involving us or our competitors;. • Failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions;. • Regulatory changes affecting our industry generally or our business or operations; or. • Geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts.. General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends, could also cause our stock price to decrease regardless of operating results.. Federal banking laws limit the acquisition and ownership of our common stock.. Because we are a bank holding company, any purchaser of certain specified amounts of our common stock may be required to file a notice with or obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve under the BHCA, as amended, and the Change in Bank Control Act of 1978, as amended. Specifically, under regulations adopted by the Federal Reserve, (1) any other bank holding company may be required to obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve before acquiring 5% or more of our common stock and (2) any person may be required to file a notice with and not be disapproved by the Federal Reserve to acquire 10% or more of our common stock and will be required to file a notice with and not be disapproved by the Federal Reserve to acquire 25% or more of our common stock.. 17. Anti-takeover provisions could negatively impact our shareholders.. Provisions of Indiana law and provisions of our articles of incorporation could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us or have the effect of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire control of us. We are subject to certain anti-takeover provisions under the Indiana Business Corporation Law. Additionally, our articles of incorporation authorize our Board of Directors to issue one or more classes or series of preferred stock without shareholder approval and such preferred stock could be issued as a defensive measure in response to a takeover proposal.. Although these provisions do not preclude a takeover, they may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or deferring a tender offer or takeover attempt that a shareholder might consider in his or her best interest, including those attempts that might result in a premium over the market price of our common stock. Such provisions will also render the removal of the Board of Directors and of management more difficult and, therefore, may serve to perpetuate current management. These provisions could potentially adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. Our securities are not an insured deposit and as such are subject to loss of entire investment.. Neither shares of our common stock nor indebtedness of our Company are bank deposits and neither is insured or guaranteed by the FDIC or any other government agency. An investment in our securities is subject to investment risk and an investor must be capable of affording the loss of the entire investment.. If we were to issue preferred stock, the rights of holders of our common stock and the value of such common stock could be adversely affected.. Our Board of Directors is authorized to issue classes or series of preferred stock, without any action on the part of our shareholders. The Board of Directors also has the power, without shareholder approval, to set the terms of any such classes or series of preferred stock, including voting rights, dividend rights and preferences over our common stock with respect to dividends or upon the liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of our business and other terms. If we issue preferred stock in the future that has a preference over our common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up, or if we issue preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of our common stock, the rights of holders of our common stock or the value of our common stock would be adversely affected.. We may issue additional shares of common or preferred stock in the future, which could dilute existing shareholders.. Our articles of incorporation authorize our Board of Directors, generally without shareholder approval, to, among other things, issue additional shares of common stock up to a total of forty-five million shares or up to five million shares of preferred stock. The issuance of any additional shares of common or preferred stock could be dilutive to a shareholder's ownership of our common stock. To the extent that currently outstanding options or warrants to purchase our common stock are exercised, or to the extent that we issue additional options or warrants to purchase our common stock in the future and the options or warrants are exercised, our shareholders may experience further dilution. In addition, we may issue preferred stock that is convertible into shares of our common stock, and upon conversion would result in our common shareholders' ownership interest being diluted. Holders of shares of our common stock have no preemptive rights that entitle holders to purchase their pro rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series and, therefore, shareholders may not be permitted to invest in future issuances of common or preferred stock. We and the Bank are required by federal and state regulatory authorities, as applicable, to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. Accordingly, regulatory requirements and/or deterioration in our asset quality may require us to sell common stock to raise capital under circumstances and at prices which result in substantial dilution.. If we default on our subordinated debt, we will be prohibited from paying dividends or distributions on our common stock.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $38.0 million aggregate principal amount of indebtedness outstanding, consisting of a subordinated debenture in the principal amount of $3.0 million scheduled to mature in 2021 (the \"2021 Debenture\"), a term loan in the principal amount of $10.0 million scheduled to mature in 2025 (the \"2025 Note\") and $25.0 million aggregate principal amount of 6.0% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Subordinate Notes due 2026 (the \"2026 Notes\").  The agreements under which our indebtedness is issued prohibit us from paying any dividends on our common stock or making any other distributions to our shareholders at any time when there shall have occurred and be continuing an event of default under the applicable agreement.. Events of default generally consist of, among other things, our failure to pay any principal or interest on the subordinated debenture or subordinated notes, as applicable, when due, our failure to comply with certain agreements, terms and covenants under the agreement (without curing such default following notice), and certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency or liquidation relating to us.. 18. If an event of default were to occur and we did not cure it, we would be prohibited from paying any dividends or making any other distributions to our shareholders or from redeeming or repurchasing any of our common stock, which would likely have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock. Moreover, without notice to or consent from the holders of our common stock, we may enter into additional financing arrangements that may limit our ability to purchase or to pay dividends or distributions on our common stock.. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our debt.. Our ability to make scheduled payments of principal and interest, or to satisfy our obligations in respect of our debt or to refinance our debt, will depend on our future performance of our operating subsidiaries. Prevailing economic conditions (including interest rates), regulatory constraints, including, among other things, limiting distributions to us from the Bank and required capital levels with respect to the Bank and certain of our nonbank subsidiaries, and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, will also affect our ability to meet these needs. Our subsidiaries may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or we may be unable to obtain future borrowings in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt, or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity. We may not be able to refinance any of our debt when needed on commercially reasonable terms or at all."
