[1] "ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS. Risks Related To Our Business.. Above average interest rate risk associated with fixed-rate loans may have an adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations.. The Bank's loan portfolio includes a significant amount of loans with fixed rates of interest. At December 31, 2017, $183.0 million, or 41.9% of the Bank's total loans receivable, had fixed interest rates all of which were held for investment. The Bank offers ARM loans and fixed-rate loans. Unlike ARM loans, fixed-rate loans carry the risk that, because they do not reprice to market interest rates, their yield may be insufficient to offset increases in the Bank's cost of funds during a rising interest rate environment. Accordingly, a material and prolonged increase in market interest rates could be expected to have a greater adverse effect on the Bank's net interest income compared to other institutions that hold a materially larger portion of their assets in ARM loans or fixed-rate loans that are originated for committed sale in the secondary market. For a discussion of the Bank's loan portfolio, see \"Item 1. Business -  Lending Activities.\". Higher loan losses could require the Company to increase its allowance for loan losses through a charge to earnings.. When we loan money we incur the risk that our borrowers do not repay their loans. We reserve for loan losses by establishing an allowance through a charge to earnings. The amount of this allowance is based on our assessment of loan losses inherent in our loan portfolio. The process for determining the amount of the allowance is critical to our financial results and condition. It requires subjective and complex judgments about the future, including forecasts of economic or market conditions that might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. We might underestimate the loan losses inherent in our loan portfolio and have loan losses in excess of the amount reserved. We might increase the allowance because of changing economic conditions. For example, in a rising interest rate environment, borrowers with adjustable-rate loans could see their payments increase. There may be a significant increase in the number of borrowers who are unable or unwilling to repay their loans, resulting in our charging off more loans and increasing our allowance. In addition, when real estate values decline, the potential severity of loss on a real estate-secured loan can increase significantly, especially in the case of loans with high combined loan-to-value ratios. Our allowance for loan losses at any particular date may not be sufficient to cover future loan losses. We may be required to increase our allowance for loan losses, thus reducing earnings.. Commercial business lending may expose the Company to increased lending risks.. At December 31, 2017, the Bank's commercial business loan portfolio amounted to $34.1 million, or 7.8% of total loans. Subject to market conditions and other factors, the Bank intends to expand its commercial business lending activities within its primary market area. Commercial business lending is inherently riskier than residential mortgage lending. Although commercial business loans are often collateralized by equipment, inventory, accounts receivable or other business assets, the liquidation value of these assets in the event of a borrower default is often an insufficient source of repayment because accounts receivable may be uncollectible and inventories and equipment may be obsolete or of limited use, among other things. See \"Item 1. Business - Lending Activities - Commercial Business Loans.\". Commercial real estate lending may expose the Company to increased lending risks.. At December 31, 2017, the Bank's commercial real estate loan portfolio amounted to $100.1 million, or 22.9% of total loans. Commercial real estate lending is inherently riskier than residential mortgage lending. Because payments on loans secured by commercial properties often depend upon the successful operation and management of the properties, repayment of such loans may be affected by adverse conditions in the real estate market or the economy, among other things. See \"Item 1. Business - Lending Activities - Commercial Real Estate Loans.\". 31. Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security.. The Bank relies heavily on internal and outsourced digital technologies, communications, and information systems to conduct its business. As our reliance on technology systems increases, the potential risks of technology-related operation interruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan, or other systems or the occurrence of cyber incidents also increases. Cyber incidents can result from deliberate attacks or unintentional events including (i) gaining unauthorized access to digital systems for purposes of misappropriating assets or sensitive information, corrupting data, or causing operational disruptions; (ii) causing denial-of-service attacks on websites; or (iii) intelligence gathering and social engineering aimed at obtaining information. The occurrence of operational interruption, cyber incident, or a deficiency in the cyber security of our technology systems (internal or outsourced) could negatively impact our financial condition or results of operations.. We have policies and procedures expressly designed to prevent or limit the effect of a failure, interruption, or security breach of our systems and maintain cyber security insurance. However, such policies, procedures, or insurance may prove insufficient to prevent, repel, or mitigate a cyber incident. Significant interruptions to our business from technology issues could result in expensive remediation efforts and distraction of management. During the year, we experienced certain immaterial cyber-attacks or breaches and continue to invest in security and controls to prevent and mitigate future incidents. Although we have not experienced any material losses related to a technology-related operational interruption or cyber-attack, there can be no assurance that such failures, interruptions, or security breaches will not occur in the future or, if they do occur, that the impact will not be substantial.. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions, or security breaches of our technology systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss, or destruction of proprietary information, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or stock price. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may also be required to spend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities.. We are subject to certain operational risks, including, but not limited to, customer or employee fraud and data processing system failures and errors.. Employee errors and employee and/or customer misconduct could subject us to financial losses or regulatory sanctions and seriously harm our reputation or financial performance. Misconduct by our employees could include, but is not limited to, hiding unauthorized activities from us, improper or unauthorized activities on behalf of our customers or improper use of confidential information. It is not always possible to prevent employee errors and misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Employee errors could also subject us to financial claims for negligence.. We maintain a system of internal controls and insurance coverage to mitigate against operational risks, including data processing system failures and errors and customer or employee fraud. If our internal controls fail to prevent or detect an occurrence, or if any resulting loss is not insured or exceeds applicable insurance limits, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We depend on outside third parties for processing and handling of our records and data.. The Bank relies on software developed by third party vendors to process various transactions. In some cases, we have contracted with third parties to run their proprietary software on our behalf. These systems include, but are not limited to, general ledger, payroll, employee benefits, and loan and deposit processing, and securities portfolio management. While we perform a review of controls instituted by the vendors over these programs in accordance with industry standards and perform our own testing of user controls, we must rely on the continued maintenance of these controls by the outside party, including safeguards over the security of customer data. In addition, we maintain backups of key processing output daily in the event of a failure on the part of any of these systems. Nonetheless, we may incur a temporary disruption in its ability to conduct our business or process our transactions or incur damage to our reputation if the third party vendor fails to adequately maintain internal controls or institute necessary changes to systems. Such disruption or breach of security may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. 32. We continually encounter technological change.. The banking and financial services industry continually undergoes technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to better meeting customer needs, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that enhance customer convenience and that create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have greater resources to invest in technological improvements, and we may not effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or do so as quickly as our competitors, which could reduce our ability to effectively compete. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We may not be able to attract and retain skilled people.. The Bank's success depends on its ability to attract and retain skilled people. Competition for the best people in most activities in which we engage can be intense, and we may not be able to hire people or retain them. The unexpected loss of services of certain of our skilled personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of their skills, knowledge of our market, years of industry experience, customer relationships, and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel.. Loss of key employees may disrupt relationships with certain customers.. Our customer relationships are critical to the success of our business, and loss of key employees with significant customer relationships may lead to the loss of business if the customers were to follow that employee to a competitor. While we believe our relationships with key personnel are strong, we cannot guarantee that all of our key personnel will remain with the organization, which could result in the loss of some of our customers and could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Risks Related to the Banking Industry.. Our business may be adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally.. Our financial performance depends to a large extent on the business environment in our geographically concentrated five-county market area, the nearby suburban metropolitan Louisville market, the states of Indiana and Kentucky, and the U.S. as a whole. In particular, the current environment impacts the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans as well as the value of collateral securing those loans. A favorable business environment is generally characterized by economic growth, low unemployment, efficient capital markets, low inflation, high business and investor confidence, strong business earnings, and other factors. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by declines in economic growth, business activity, or investor or business confidence; limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital; increases in inflation or interest rates; high unemployment; natural disasters; or a combination of these or other factors.. In the recent past, our market area, the suburban metropolitan Louisville market, the states of Indiana and Kentucky, and the U.S. as a whole experienced a downward economic cycle. Significant weakness in market conditions adversely impacted all aspects of the economy, including our business. In particular, dramatic declines in the housing market, with decreasing home prices and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures, negatively impacted the credit performance of construction loans, which resulted in significant write-downs of assets by many financial institutions. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions was greatly reduced, and local governments and many businesses experienced serious difficulty due to the lack of consumer spending and the lack of liquidity in the credit markets. In addition, unemployment increased significantly during that period, which further contributed to the adverse business environment for households and businesses.. While economic conditions have shown signs of improvement through 2017, there can be no assurance that economic recovery will continue, and future deterioration would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of recent difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. Market stress could have a material adverse effect on the credit quality of our loans, and therefore, our financial condition and results of operations as well as other potential adverse impacts including:. 33. •There could be an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility, and widespread reduction of business activity generally.. •There could be an increase in write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, such as the Bank.. •There could be the loss of collateral value on commercial and real estate loans that are secured by real estate located in our market area. A further significant decline in real estate values in our market would mean that the collateral for many of our loans would provide less security. As a result, we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans because our ability to fully recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral would be diminished.. •Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of customers could be impaired if the models and approaches it uses to select, manage, and underwrite credits become less predictive of future performance.. •The process we use to estimate losses inherent in our loan portfolio requires difficult, subjective, and complex judgments. This process includes analysis of economic conditions and the impact of these economic conditions on borrowers' ability to repay their loans. The process could no longer be capable of accurate estimation and may, in turn, impact its reliability.. •The Bank could be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums in the future if losses further deplete the Deposit Insurance Fund.. •We could face increased competition due to intensified consolidation of the financial services industry. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Future economic conditions in our market will depend on factors outside of our control such as political and market conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, changes in government, military and fiscal policies and inflation.. Turmoil in the financial markets could result in lower fair values for our investment securities.. Major disruptions in the capital markets experienced in recent years have adversely affected investor demand for all classes of securities, excluding U.S. Treasury securities, and resulted in volatility in the fair values of our investment securities. Significant prolonged reduced investor demand could manifest itself in lower fair values for these securities and may result in recognition of an other-than-temporary impairment (\"OTTI\"), which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Municipal securities can also be impacted by the business environment of their geographic location. Although this type of security historically experienced extremely low default rates, municipal securities are subject to systemic risk since cash flows generally depend on (i) the ability of the issuing authority to levy and collect taxes or (ii) the ability of the issuer to charge for and collect payment for essential services rendered. If the issuer defaults on its payments, it may result in the recognition of OTTI or total loss, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Strong competition within the Bank's market area could hurt the Company's profitability and growth.. The Bank faces intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. This competition has made it more difficult for it to make new loans and at times has forced it to offer higher deposit rates. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in the Bank earning less on loans and paying more on deposits, which would reduce net interest income. Competition also makes it more difficult to grow loans and deposits. Some of the institutions with which the Bank competes have substantially greater resources and lending limits than it has and may offer services that the Bank does not provide. Future competition will likely increase because of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. The Company's profitability depends upon the Bank's continued ability to compete successfully in its market area.. 34. We are subject to federal regulations that seek to protect the Deposit Insurance Fund and the depositors and borrowers of the Bank, and our federal regulators may impose restrictions on our operations that are detrimental to holders of the Company's common stock.. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the FRB and the OCC, our primary federal regulators, and the FDIC, as insurer of our deposits. Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage, and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and the depositors and borrowers of the Bank rather than for holders of the Company's common stock. Our regulators may subject us to supervisory and enforcement actions, such as the imposition of certain restrictions on our operations, requirements that we take remedial action, the classification of our assets and the determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses, that are aimed at protecting the insurance fund and the depositors and borrowers of the Bank but that are detrimental to holders of the Company's common stock. Any change in our regulation or oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations.. The Federal Reserve may require us to commit capital resources to support First Harrison Bank.. As a matter of policy, the FRB expects a savings and loan holding company to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to a subsidiary savings association and to commit resources to support such subsidiary bank. The Dodd-Frank Act codified the FRB's policy on serving as a source of financial strength. Under the \"source of strength\" doctrine, the FRB may require a savings and loan holding company to make capital injections into a troubled subsidiary savings association and may charge the savings and loan holding company with engaging in unsafe and unsound practices for failure to commit resources to a subsidiary savings association. A capital injection may be required at times when the savings and loan holding company may not have the resources to provide it and therefore may be required to borrow the funds or raise capital. Any loans by a savings and loan holding company to its subsidiary savings association are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to certain other indebtedness of such subsidiary savings association. In the event of a savings and loan holding company's bankruptcy, the bankruptcy trustee will assume any commitment by the holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary savings association. Moreover, bankruptcy law provides that claims based on any such commitment will be entitled to a priority of payment over the claims of the savings and loan holding company's general unsecured creditors, including the holders of its note obligations. Thus, any borrowing that must be done by us to make a required capital injection becomes more difficult and expensive and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Financial regulatory reform may have a material impact on the Company's operations.. The Dodd-Frank Act contains various provisions designed to enhance the regulation of depository institutions and prevent the recurrence of a financial crisis such as occurred in 2008 and 2009. These include provisions strengthening holding company capital requirements, requiring retention of a portion of the risk of securitized loans and regulating debit card interchange fees. The Dodd-Frank Act also created the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau to administer consumer protection and fair lending laws, a function that was formerly performed by the depository institution regulators. The full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business and operations will not be known for years until regulations implementing the statute are written and adopted. However, it is likely that the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will have an adverse impact on our operations, particularly through increased regulatory burden and compliance costs.. Additionally, in July 2013, the federal banking agencies issued a final rule to revise their risk-based and leverage capital requirements and their method for calculating risk-weighted assets, to make them consistent with the agreements that were reached by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. The rule applies to all depository institutions, top-tier bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $500 million or more, and top-tier savings and loan holding companies (\"banking organizations\"). Among other things, the rule establishes a new common equity Tier 1 minimum capital requirement (4.5% of risk-weighted assets), increases the minimum Tier 1 capital to risk-based assets requirement (from 4% to 6% of risk-weighted assets) and assigns a higher risk weight (150%) to exposures that are more than 90 days past due or are on nonaccrual status and to certain commercial real estate facilities that finance the acquisition, development or construction of real property. The rule also limits a banking organization's capital distributions and certain discretionary bonus payments if the banking organization does not hold a \"capital conservation buffer\" consisting of 2.5% of common equity Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets in addition to the amount necessary to meet its minimum risk-based capital requirements. The rule became effective on January 1, 2015. The capital conservation buffer requirement began phasing in on January 1, 2016 and will end January 1, 2019, when the full capital conservation buffer requirement will be effective.. 35. Compliance with these rules will impose additional costs on banking entities and their holding companies.. Acquisitions and the addition of branch facilities may not produce revenue enhancements or cost savings at levels or within timeframes originally anticipated and may result in unforeseen integration difficulties and dilution to existing shareholder value.. We regularly explore opportunities to establish branch facilities and acquire other banks or financial institutions. New or acquired branch facilities and other facilities may not be profitable. We may not be able to correctly identify profitable locations for new branches. The costs to start up new branch facilities or to acquire existing branches, and the additional costs to operate these facilities, may increase our noninterest expense and decrease earnings in the short term. It may be difficult to adequately and profitably manage growth through the establishment of these branches. In addition, we can provide no assurance that these branch sites will successfully attract enough deposits to offset the expenses of operating these branch sites. Any new or acquired branches will be subject to regulatory approval, and there can be no assurance that we will succeed in securing such approvals.. Risks Related to the Company's Stock.. An investment in the Company's Common Stock is not an insured deposit.. The Company's common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund, or by any other public or private entity. Investment in the Company's common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this \"Risk Factors\" section and elsewhere in this report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any public company. As a result, if you acquire the Company's common stock, you could lose some or all of your investment.. The price of the Company's common stock may be volatile, which may result in losses for investors.. General market price declines or market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price of the Company's common stock. In addition, the following factors may cause the market price for shares of the Company's common stock to fluctuate:. •announcements of developments related to the Company's business;. •fluctuations in the Company's results of operations;. •sales or purchases of substantial amounts of the Company's securities in the marketplace;. •general conditions in the Company's banking niche or the worldwide economy;. •a shortfall or excess in revenues or earnings compared to securities analysts' expectations;. •changes in analysts' recommendations or projections; and. •the Company's announcement of new acquisitions or other projects.. The trading volume in the Company's common stock is less than that of other larger financial services institutions.. Although the Company's common stock is listed for trading on The NASDAQ Capital Market, the trading volume in its common stock may be less than that of other, larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity, and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of the Company's common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which the Company has no control. During any period of lower trading volume of the Company's common stock, significant sales of shares of the Company's common stock, or the expectation of these sales could cause the Company's common stock price to fall.. 36. The Company's Articles of Incorporation, Indiana law, and certain banking laws may have an anti-takeover effect.. Provisions of the Company's Articles of Incorporation, the Indiana Business Corporation Law and federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire the Company, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial by the Company's shareholders. The combination of these provisions could have the effect of inhibiting a non-negotiated merger or other business combination, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of the Company's common stock.. The Company may issue additional securities, which could dilute the ownership percentage of holders of the Company's common stock.. The Company may issue additional securities to, among other reasons, raise additional capital or finance acquisitions, and, if it does, the ownership percentage of holders of the Company's common stock could be diluted potentially materially.. We may not be able to pay dividends in the future in accordance with past practice.. The Company has traditionally paid a quarterly dividend to common shareholders. The payment of dividends is subject to legal and regulatory restrictions. Any payment of dividends in the future will depend, in large part, on our earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other factors considered relevant by the Company's Board of Directors. The Board may, at its discretion, further reduce or eliminate dividends or change its dividend policy in the future."
