[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by various factors, many of which are beyond our control. In addition to the factors identified elsewhere in this Report, we believe the most significant risk factors affecting our business include those set forth below. The below description of risk factors is not exhaustive, and readers should not consider the description of such risk factors to be a complete set of all potential risks that could affect us.. Market, Interest Rate, Credit and Liquidity Risk. Economic and general market conditions may adversely affect our business.. Our business and results of operations are affected by economic and market conditions, political uncertainty and social conditions, factors impacting the level and volatility of short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, home prices, unemployment and under-employment levels, bankruptcies, household income, consumer spending, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets and currencies, liquidity of the financial markets, the availability and cost of capital and credit, investor sentiment and confidence in the financial markets, and the sustainability of economic growth. Deterioration of any of these conditions could adversely affect our business segments, the level of credit risk we have assumed, our capital levels and liquidity, and our results of operations.. Domestic and international fiscal and monetary policy also affects our business. Central bank actions can affect the value of financial instruments and other assets, such as investment securities and MSRs, and their policies can affect our borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. Changes in fiscal and monetary policies are beyond our control and difficult to predict but could have an adverse impact on our capital requirements and the costs of running our business.. Deterioration in the mortgage market may also reduce the number of new mortgages that we originate, increase the costs of servicing mortgages without a corresponding increase in servicing fees or adversely affect our ability to sell mortgage loans originated by us. Any such event could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our mortgage origination business is subject to the cyclical and seasonal trends of the real estate market. Cyclicality in our industry could lead to periods of strong growth in the mortgage and real estate markets followed by periods of sharp declines and losses in such markets. Seasonal trends have historically reflected the general patterns of residential and commercial real estate sales, which typically peak in the spring and summer seasons. One of the primary influences on our mortgage business is the aggregate demand for mortgage loans in our market areas, which is affected by prevailing interest rates and the economic condition of those areas. If we are unable to respond to the cyclicality of our industry by appropriately adjusting our operations or relying on the strength of our other product offerings during cyclical downturns, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations including our net interest margin, mortgage origination volume and mortgage related assets, and our investment portfolio.. Our results of operations and financial condition could be significantly affected by changes in interest rates. Our financial results depend substantially on net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income that we earn on interest-earning assets and the interest expense we pay on interest-bearing liabilities. While we have modeled rising interest rate scenarios and such scenarios result in an increase in our net interest income, our deposits and interest-bearing liabilities may reprice more quickly than modeled, resulting in a decrease in our net interest income. We seek to manage our balance sheet to be interest rate neutral. In response to changes in the interest rate environment, we make adjustments to match the duration of our assets with the duration of our liabilities.. 10. In 2017, approximately 49 percent of our revenue was derived from the origination of residential mortgages and changes in interest rates may affect origination volume as the residential real estate mortgage lending business is sensitive to interest rates. Lower interest rates generally increase the volume of mortgage originations while higher interest rates generally cause that volume to decrease. Historically, mortgage origination volume and sales for the Bank and for other financial institutions have risen and fallen in response to these and other factors. An increase in interest rates would change these conditions and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. During 2017, average 10 year U.S. Treasury rates, on which we base our pricing of our 30 year mortgages, were 2.33 percent, 49 basis points higher than average rates experienced throughout 2016. The sustained higher rates experienced throughout 2017 negatively impacted the mortgage market including loan origination volume and refinancing activity.. Changes in interest rates may affect the average life of our mortgage loans and mortgage related securities and, to a lesser extent, our commercial loans. Decreases in interest rates can trigger an increase in unscheduled prepayments of our loans and mortgage-related securities as borrowers refinance to reduce their own borrowing costs. Conversely, increases in interest rates may decrease loan refinance activity.. Changes in interest rates also affect the fair value of our LHFS, LHFI and investment securities. Generally, the value of our investment securities, which are predominantly fixed-rate, fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates and decreases in the fair value have an adverse effect on our stockholders' equity or our earnings.. Additionally, the fair value of our MSRs is highly sensitive to changes in interest rates and changes in market implied interest rate volatility. Decreases in interest rates can trigger an increase in actual repayments and market expectation for higher levels of repayments in the future which have a negative impact on MSR fair value. We utilize derivatives and other fair value assets to manage the impact of changes in the fair value of the MSRs. Our risk management strategies, which rely on assumptions or projections, may not adequately mitigate the impact of changes in interest rates, interest rate volatility or prepayment speeds, and as a result, the change in the fair value of MSRs may negatively impact earnings.. We may be unable to effectively manage our MSR concentration risk which could impact our Common Equity Tier 1 ratio (CET1) under Basel III.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $291 million in MSRs and a MSR to Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio of 24 percent. We produced, on average, approximately $73 million new MSRs per quarter in 2017. We manage our MSR concentration through sales of these assets and in 2017, we sold $361 million in MSRs. In addition, as of December 31, 2017, we had pending MSR sales of $98 million which closed during the first quarter of 2018. While our established plan to manage our MSR concentration incorporates our production volumes and required sales, no assurance can be given that we will be able to do so, or that we will be successful in selling these assets at their current fair value.. We are subject to rules relating to capital standards requirements, including requirements contemplated by the Dodd-Frank Act as well as certain standards initially adopted by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, which standards are commonly referred to as Basel III. Basel III established a qualifying criteria for regulatory capital, including limitations on the amount of DTAs and MSRs that may be held without triggering higher capital requirements. Basel III limits the amount of MSRs and DTAs to 10 percent of CET1, individually, and 15 percent of CET1, in the aggregate.. On October 27, 2017, the agencies issued a notice of proposed rulemaking (\"NPR\") which would simplify certain aspects of the Basel III capital rules. The agencies expect that the capital treatment and transition provisions for items covered by this final rule will change once the simplification proposal is finalized and effective. Specifically, the proposal would increase the limit on MSRs to 25 percent of CET1 and eliminate the aggregate 15 percent CET1 deduction threshold for MSRs and temporary difference DTAs. In response to comments received from bankers and trade associations, the regulators may change these proposed rules prior to issuing them in their final form.. In preparation for the NPR, the Basel III implementation phase-in has been halted for the treatment of MSRs and certain DTAs. The agencies issued a final rule that will maintain the capital rules' 2017 transition provisions for several regulatory capital deductions and certain other requirements that are subject to multi-year phase-in schedules in the regulatory capital rules. Specifically, the final rule will maintain the capital rules' 2017 transition provisions at 80 percent for the regulatory capital treatment of the following items: (i) MSRs, (ii) DTAs arising from temporary differences that could not be realized through net operating loss carrybacks, (iii) investments in the capital of unconsolidated financial institutions, and (iv) minority interests. As of December 31, 2017, we had $291 million on MSRs, $57 million in DTAs arising from temporary differences and no investments in unconsolidated financial institutions or minority interest. This final rule will maintain the. 11. 2017 transition provisions for certain items for non-advanced approach banks. For further information, see Note 20 - Regulatory Capital.. As of December 31, 2017, our ALLL was $140 million, covering 1.8 percent of total loans held-for-investment. Our estimate of the inherent losses is imperfect and based on management judgment.. Our allowance for loan and lease losses, which reflects our estimate of such losses inherent in the loan portfolio at December 31, 2017, may not be adequate to cover actual credit losses. If this allowance is insufficient, future provisions for credit losses could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We attempt to limit the risk that borrowers will fail to repay loans by carefully underwriting our loans, but losses nevertheless occur in the ordinary course of business operations. Our ALLL is based on historical experience as well as our evaluation of the risks inherent in the loan portfolio at December 31, 2017. The determination of an appropriate level of loan loss allowance is a subjective process that requires significant management judgment, including estimates of loss and the loss emergence period, estimates and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio including but not limited to the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of real estate or other collateral backing the repayment of loans. New information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans, failure of borrowers and guarantors to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans, and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the ALLL. Moreover, our regulators, as part of their supervisory function, periodically review our ALLL. Our regulators, who may have access to broader industry data than we do, may recommend or require us to increase the amount of our ALLL, based on their judgment, which may be different from that of our management. Any increase in our loan losses would have an adverse effect on our earnings and financial condition.. Concentration of loans held-for-investment in certain geographic locations and portfolios may increase risk.. Our residential mortgage loan portfolio is geographically concentrated in certain states, including California, Michigan, and Florida, which comprise approximately 58 percent in the aggregate of the portfolio. In addition, our commercial loan portfolio has a concentration of Michigan lending relationships. Approximately 48 percent of our CRE loans are collateralized by properties in Michigan and 29 percent of our C&I borrowers are located in Michigan. These concentrations have made, and will continue to make, our loan portfolio particularly susceptible to downturns in the local economies and the real estate and mortgage markets in these areas. Adverse conditions that are beyond our control may affect these areas, including unemployment, inflation, recession, natural disasters, declining property values, municipal bankruptcies and other factors which could increase default rates in our loan portfolio, reduce our ability to generate new loans and negatively affect our financial results.. In 2017, we continued to grow our commercial portfolio to $4.3 billion at December 31, 2017. CRE and C&I loans grew to $3.1 billion and comprised 41 percent of our total LHFI portfolio at December 31, 2017. As a part of that growth, our home builder finance program reached $601 million at December 31, 2017. The home builder lending portfolio contains secured and unsecured loans and our lending platform originates loans throughout the U.S. with main offices in Houston and Denver.. Commercial loans, including home builder loans, generally expose us to a greater risk of nonpayment and loss than residential real estate loans due to the more complex nature of underwriting. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to residential real estate loans. At December 31, 2017, our largest CRE and C&I borrowers had loans of $81 million UPB and $68 million UPB, respectively and our average commercial loan balance was $1.4 million. Secured loans, including residential and commercial real estate, may experience changes in the underlying collateral value due to adverse market conditions which could result in increased charge-offs in the event of a loan default.. At December 31, 2017, our committed amount of adjustable-rate warehouse lines of credit granted to other mortgage lenders was $2.8 billion, of which $1.1 billion was outstanding. There may be risks associated with the mortgage lenders that borrow from the Bank, including credit risk, inadequate underwriting, and potential external fraud. A default from one of our borrowers could result in a large loss. Additionally, adverse changes to industry competition, mortgage demand and the interest rate environment may have a negative impact on warehouse lending. Fluctuations in outstanding warehouse lines of credit, which are contingent on residential mortgage production, can impact the Bank's liquidity and earnings. Failure to mitigate these risks could negatively impact our financial results.. 12. Liquidity risk may affect our ability to meet obligations and impact our ability to grow our business.. We require substantial liquidity to repay our customers' deposits, fulfill loan demands, meet debt obligations as they come due, and fund our operations under both normal operating environments and unforeseen circumstances causing liquidity stress. Our access to liquidity could be impaired by our inability to access the capital markets or unforeseen outflows of deposits. Our access to external sources of financing, including deposits, as well as the cost of that financing, is dependent on various factors. A number of factors could make funding more difficult, more expensive or unavailable on any terms. These factors include, declining financial results and losses, material changes to operating margins, financial leverage on an absolute basis or relative to peers, changes within the organization, specific events that impact our financial condition or reputation, disruptions in the capital markets, specific events that adversely impact the financial services industry, counterparty availability, the corporate and regulatory structure, balance sheet and capital structure, geographic and business diversification, interest rate fluctuations, market share and competitive position, general economic conditions and the legal, regulatory, accounting and tax environments governing funding transactions. Many of these factors are beyond our control. A material deterioration in any one or a combination of these factors could result in a downgrade of our credit or servicer standing with counterparties or a decline in our reputation within the marketplace, and could result in higher cash outflows requiring additional access to liquidity, having a limited ability to borrow funds, maintain or increase deposits (including custodial deposits for our agency servicing portfolio) or to raise capital on commercially reasonable terms or at all.. Our ability to meet loan demand, accommodate outflows in deposits, take advantage of market opportunity, and execute on our plans to grow the balance sheet depends largely on our ability to secure funds on acceptable terms. Our primary sources of funds to meet our financing needs include deposits, including custodial accounts from our servicing portfolio, loan sales, public funds, and capital-raising activities. Our company controlled deposits are considered stable sources of funding. If we are unable to maintain and grow certain of these financing arrangements, are restricted from accessing certain funding sources by our regulators, are unable to arrange for new financing on terms, or if we default on any of the covenants imposed upon us by our borrowing facilities, then we may have to limit our growth, reduce the number of loans we are able to originate or take actions that could have other negative effects on our operations. A prolonged significant reduction in loan originations that occurs as a result could adversely impact our earnings and financial condition.. We are a holding company and are, therefore, dependent on the Bank for funding of obligations.. As a holding company with no significant assets other than the capital stock of the Bank and the cash on hand, our ability to make payments for certain services we purchase from the Bank and to service our debt, including interest payments on our senior notes and trust preferred securities depends upon available cash on hand and the receipt of dividends from the Bank. The holding company had cash and cash equivalents of $196 million at December 31, 2017or approximately 3.8 years of expense, which includes compensation and benefits, legal and professional expense and general and administrative expenses. These expenses for the holding company totaled $34 million for the year ended December 31, 2017. The declaration and payment of dividends by the Bank on all classes of its capital stock is subject to the discretion of the Bank's board of directors and to applicable regulatory and legal limitations. If the Bank does not make dividend payments to us, we may not be able to service our debt, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Regulatory Risk. The Holding Company remains subject to the restrictions and conditions of the Supervisory Agreement with the Federal Reserve. Failure to comply with the Supervisory Agreement could result in further enforcement action against us and limit our ability to execute on business plans.. The Supervisory Agreement requires that we take certain actions to address issues as specified in the agreement. The Supervisory Agreement is enforced by the Federal Reserve with respect to savings and loan holding companies. Under the terms of the agreement, we are required to submit a capital plan; receive written non-objection before declaring or paying any dividend or other capital distribution from the Holding Company, incurring or renewing any debt at the Holding Company and engaging in affiliate transactions (with limited exceptions); comply with applicable regulatory requirements before making certain severance and indemnification payments; and provide notice prior to changes in directors and certain executive officers or entering into, renewing, extending or revising compensation or benefits agreements of such directors or executive officers, with such changes being subject to Federal Reserve approval. While we believe that we have taken all action necessary to comply with the requirements of the Supervisory Agreement, failure to comply with the Supervisory Agreement in the time frames provided, or at all, could result in additional enforcement orders or penalties, which could include further restrictions on us, assessment of civil money penalties on us, as well as our directors, officers and other affiliated parties and removal of one or. 13. more officers and/or directors. Any failure by us to comply with the terms of the Supervisory Agreement or additional actions by the Federal Reserve could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, our competitors, particularly non-banks, may not be subject to similar actions, which could impact our ability to compete effectively. For further information, see Item 1. Business - Regulation and Supervision.. We are highly dependent on the Agencies to sell mortgage loans and any changes in these entities or their current roles could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. During the year ended December 31, 2017, we sold approximately 57 percent of our mortgage loans to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac remain in conservatorship and a path forward to emerge from conservatorship is unclear. These roles could be reduced, modified or eliminated and the nature of their guarantees could be limited or eliminated relative to historical measurements.. The elimination or modification of the traditional roles of Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac could significantly and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, any discontinuation of, or significant reduction in, the operation of these agencies, any significant adverse change in the level of activity of these agencies in the primary or secondary mortgage markets could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in the servicing, origination, or underwriting guidelines or criteria required by the Agencies could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are required to follow specific guidelines or criteria that impact the way that we originate, underwrite, or service. Agency loans, including guidelines with respect to credit standards for mortgage loans, our staffing levels and other servicing practices, the servicing and ancillary fees that we may charge, our modification standards and procedures and the amount of non-reimbursable advances.. We cannot negotiate these terms with the Agencies and they are subject to change at any time. A significant change in these guidelines which decreases the fees we charge or requires us to expend additional resources in providing mortgage services could decrease our revenues or increase our costs, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, changes in the nature or extent of the guarantees provided by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac or the insurance provided by the FHA could also have broad adverse market implications. The fees that we are required to pay to the Agencies for these guarantees have changed significantly over time and any future increases in these fees would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We depend upon having FDIC insurance to raise deposit funding at reasonable rates. Increases in deposit insurance premiums and special FDIC assessments will adversely affect our earnings.. The Dodd-Frank Act required the FDIC to substantially revise its regulations for determining the amount of an institution's deposit insurance premiums. The FDIC has defined the deposit insurance assessment base for an insured depository institution as average consolidated total assets during the assessment period, minus average tangible equity. Our assessment rate is determined by use of a scorecard that combines our CAMELS ratings with certain other financial information. The FDIC may determine that we present a higher risk to the DIF than other banks due to various factors. These factors include significant risks relating to interest rates, loan portfolio and geographic concentration, concentration of high credit risk loans, increased loan losses, regulatory compliance (including under existing Supervisory Agreement), existing and future litigation and other factors. As a result, we could be subject to higher deposit insurance premiums and special assessments in the future that could adversely affect our earnings. The Bank's deposit insurance premiums and special assessments in the future also may be higher than competing banks may be required to pay. For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, our FDIC insurance expense premiums totaled $16 million, $11 million and $23 million, respectively.. 14. Operational Risk. We may experience risks associated with the successful integration of mergers and acquisitions.. Related to the pending acquisition of eight Desert Community Bank branches, we may experience challenges related to the integration of their operations which may result in additional cost. This includes the transition of data, integration of product offerings and the standardization of business practices. Complications associated with this process could result in delays or an inability to close the transaction, additional cost, loss of customers, damage to our reputation or other operational risks.. A failure of our information technology systems, or those of our key third party vendors or service providers, could cause operational losses and damage our reputation.. Our businesses are increasingly dependent on our ability to process, record and monitor a large number of complex transactions and data. If our internal information technology systems fail, we may be unable to conduct business for a period of time, which may impact our financial results if that interruption is sustained. In addition, our reputation with our customers or business partners may suffer, which could have a further, long-term impact on our financial results.. Because we conduct part of our business over the Internet and outsource a significant number of our critical functions to third parties, our operations depend on our third-party service providers to maintain and operate their own technology systems. To the extent these third parties' systems fail, we may be unable to conduct business or provide certain services, and we may face financial and reputational losses as a result.. We collect, store and transfer our customers' personally identifiable information. Any cybersecurity attack or other compromise to the security of that information could adversely impact our business and financial condition.. Cybersecurity related attacks are attempted on an ongoing basis which pose a risk of data breaches relative to the processing of consumer transactions that contain customers' personally identifiable information. As a part of conducting business, we receive, transmit and store a large volume of personally identifiable information and other user data either on our network or in the cloud.. Cybersecurity risks for banking institutions have increased significantly in recent years due to new technologies, the reliance on technology to conduct financial transactions and the increased sophistication of organized crime and hackers. A cybersecurity attack or information security breach could adversely impact our ability to conduct business due to the potential costs for remediation, protection and litigation and reputational damage with customers, business partners and investors.. There are myriad federal, state, local and international laws regarding privacy and the storing, sharing, use, disclosure and protection of personally identifiable information and user data. We have policies and processes in place that are intended to meet the requirements of those laws, including security systems to prevent unauthorized access to that information. Nevertheless, those processes and systems may be inadequate. Also, to the extent we rely upon third parties to handle personally identifiable data on our behalf, we may be responsible if such data is compromised or subject to a cybersecurity attack while in the custody and control of those third parties.. Privacy laws are continually evolving and many state and local jurisdictions have laws that differ from federal law or privacy policies, further some of those policies or laws may conflict. If we fail to comply with applicable privacy policies or federal, state, local or international laws and regulations or any compromise of security that results in the unauthorized release of personally identifiable information or other user data, those events could damage the reputation of our business, and discourage potential users from utilizing our products and services. In addition, we may have to bear the cost of mitigating identity theft concerns, and may be subject to fines or legal proceedings by governmental agencies or consumers. Any of these events could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. 15. We may be terminated as a servicer or subservicer or incur costs, liabilities, fines and other sanctions if we fail to satisfy our servicing obligations, including our obligations with respect to mortgage loan foreclosure actions.. We act as servicer or subservicer for mortgage loans owned by third parties, which is approximately 9 percent of our revenue and results in approximately $1.5 billion of our average company controlled deposits. In such capacities for those loans, we have certain contractual obligations, including foreclosing on defaulted mortgage loans or, to the extent applicable, considering alternatives to foreclosure. If we commit a material breach of our obligations as servicer, we may be subject to termination if the breach is not cured within a specified period of time following notice, causing us to lose servicing income.. For certain investors and/or certain transactions, we may be contractually obligated to repurchase a mortgage loan or reimburse the investor for credit or other losses incurred on the loan as a remedy for servicing errors with respect to the loan. If we have increased repurchase obligations because of claims for which we did not satisfy our obligations, or increased loss severity on such repurchases, we may have a significant reduction to noninterest income or an increase to noninterest expense. We may incur significant costs if we are required to, or if we elect to, re-execute or re-file documents or take other action in our capacity as a servicer in connection with pending or completed foreclosures. We may incur litigation costs if the validity of a foreclosure action is challenged by a borrower. If a court were to overturn a foreclosure because of errors or deficiencies in the foreclosure process, we may have liability to the borrower and/or to any title insurer of the property sold in foreclosure if the required process was not followed. These costs and liabilities may not be legally or otherwise reimbursable to us.. We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans, pay fees or indemnify buyers against losses in some circumstances, which could harm liquidity, results of operations and financial condition.. When mortgage loans are sold by us, we make customary representations and warranties to purchasers, guarantors and insurers, including the Agencies, about the mortgage loans, and the manner in which they were originated. We have made, and will continue to make, such representations and warranties in connection with the sale of loans. Whole loan sale agreements require us to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans, or indemnify buyers against losses, in the event we breach these representations or warranties. In addition, we may be required to repurchase mortgage loans as a result of early payment default of the borrower or we may be required to pay fees. We also are subject to litigation relating to these representations and warranties and the costs of such litigation may be significant. With respect to loans that are originated through our broker or correspondent channels, the remedies we have available against the originating broker or correspondent, if any, may not be as broad as the remedies available to purchasers, guarantors and insurers of mortgage loans against us. We also face further risk that the originating broker or correspondent, if any, may not have the financial capacity to perform remedies that otherwise may be available. Therefore, if a purchaser, guarantor or insurer enforces its remedies against us, we may not be able to recover losses from the originating broker or correspondent. If repurchase and indemnity demands increase and such demands are valid claims, the liquidity, results of operations and financial condition may also be adversely affected.. Our representation and warranty reserve, which is based on an estimate of probable future losses, was $15 million at December 31, 2017. This may not be adequate to cover losses for loans that we have sold or securitized into the secondary market which we may be subsequently required to repurchase, pay fines or fees, or indemnify purchasers and insurers because of violations of customary representations and warranties. The repurchase demand pipeline was $3 million UPB at December 31, 2017.. Our regulators, as part of their supervisory function, periodically review our representation and warranty reserve for losses. Our regulators may recommend or require us to increase our reserve, based on their judgment, which may differ from that of our management. Any increase in our loan losses could have an adverse effect on our earnings and financial condition.. We utilize third party mortgage originators which subjects us to strategic, reputation, compliance and operational risk.. In 2017, approximately 90 percent of our residential first mortgage volume depended upon the use of third party mortgage originators, i.e. mortgage brokers and correspondent lenders, who are not our employees. These third parties originate mortgages and provide services to many different banks and other entities. Accordingly, they may have relationships with or loyalties to such banks and other parties that are different from those they have with or to us. Failure to maintain good relations with such third party mortgage originators could have a negative impact on our market share which would negatively impact our results of operations.. 16. We rely on third party mortgage originators to originate and document the mortgage loans we purchase or originate. While we perform due diligence on the mortgage companies with whom we do business and review the loan files and loan documents we purchase to attempt to detect any irregularities or legal noncompliance, we have less control over these originators than employees of the Bank.. Due to regulatory scrutiny, our third party mortgage originators could choose or be required to either reduce the scope of their business or exit the mortgage origination business altogether. The TILA-RESPA Integrated Disclosure Rule issued by the CFPB establishes comprehensive mortgage disclosure requirements for lenders and settlement agents in connection with most closed-end consumer credit transactions secured by real property. The rule requires certain disclosures to be provided to consumers in connection with applying for and closing on a mortgage loan. The rule also mandates the use of specific disclosure forms, timing of communicating information to borrowers and certain record keeping requirements. The ongoing administrative burden and the system requirements associated with complying with these rules or potential changes to these rules could impact our mortgage volume and an increase in costs. In addition, these arrangements with third party mortgage originators and the fees payable by us to such third parties could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and restrictions in the future.. The Equal Credit Opportunity Act and the Fair Housing Act, prohibit discriminatory lending practices by lenders, including financial institutions. These regulations apply to lending operations which deal directly with consumer lending. Mortgage and consumer lending practices raise compliance risks resulting from the detailed and complex nature of mortgage and consumer lending laws regulations imposed by federal regulatory agencies, and the relatively independent and diverse operating channels in which loans are originated. As we originate loans through various channels, we, and our third party mortgage originators, are especially impacted by these laws and regulations and are required to implement appropriate policies and procedures to help ensure compliance with fair lending laws and regulations and to avoid lending practices that result in the disparate treatment of or disparate impact to borrowers across our various locations under multiple channels. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations, by us or our third party mortgage originators, could result in the Bank being liable for damages to individual borrowers or other imposed penalties.. General Risk Factors. MP Thrift, an entity managed and controlled by MatlinPatterson, owns 62.1 percent of our common stock and has significant influence over us, including control over decisions that require the approval of stockholders, whether or not such decisions are in the best interests of other stockholders.. MP Thrift owns a substantial majority of our outstanding common stock and as a result, has control over our decisions to enter into any corporate transaction and also the ability to prevent any transaction that requires the approval of our board of directors or the stockholders regardless of whether or not other members of our board of directors or stockholders believe that any such transactions are in their own best interests. So long as MP Thrift continues to hold a majority of our outstanding common stock, it will have the ability to control the vote in any election of directors and other matters being voted on, and continue to exert significant influence over us. Furthermore, MP Thrift may have interests that could diverge from the interests of other stockholders, and may use its control to make decisions that adversely affect the interest of other common stockholders and other holders of our debt or other equity instruments.. We are subject to various legal or regulatory investigations and proceedings.. At any given time, we are involved with a number of legal and regulatory investigations and proceedings as a part of the routine reviews conducted by regulators and other parties which may involve consumer protection, employment, tort, and numerous other laws and regulations. Proceedings or actions brought against us may result in judgments, settlements, fines, injunctions, business improvement orders, consent orders, supervisory agreements, restrictions on our business activities or other results adverse to us, which could materially and negatively affect our business. If such claims and other matters are not resolved in a manner favorable to us, they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of us and our products and services, as well as impact customer demand for those products and services. Some of the laws and regulations to which we are subject may provide a private right of action that a consumer or class of consumers may pursue to enforce these laws and regulations. We have been, and may be in the future, subject to stockholder derivative actions, which could seek significant damages or other relief. Any financial liability or reputational damage could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Claims asserted against us can be highly complicated and slow to develop, making the outcome of such proceedings difficult to predict or estimate early in the process. As a participant in the financial services industry, it is likely that we will be exposed to a high level of litigation and regulatory scrutiny and investigations relating to our business and operations.. 17. Although we establish accruals for legal proceedings when information related to the loss contingencies represented by those matters indicates both that a loss is probable and that the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated, we do not have accruals for all legal proceedings where we face a risk of loss. Due to the inherent subjectivity of the assessments and unpredictability of the outcome of legal and regulatory proceedings, amounts accrued may not represent the ultimate loss to us from the legal and regulatory proceedings in question. As a result, our ultimate losses may be significantly higher than the amounts accrued for legal loss contingencies. For further information, see Note 21 - Legal Proceedings, Contingencies and Commitments.. Our assessment of the accounting impact of tax reform is subject to further clarification and guidance yet to be issued.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was enacted into law on December 22, 2017 and as of December 31, 2017, we calculated its accounting impact based on the new legislation as written. Upon completion of our 2017 U.S. income tax return in 2018, we may identify additional remeasurement adjustments to our recorded deferred tax assets as further clarification and guidance is issued. We will continue to assess our provision for income taxes and deferred tax assets with new guidance but do not currently anticipate that significant revisions or adjustments will be necessary. Any required revisions will be made within the measurement period, defined by Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 as within one year of the enactment date.. Loss of certain personnel, including key members of the Corporation's management team, could adversely affect the Corporation.. We are and will continue to be dependent upon our management team and other key personnel. Losing the services of one or more key members of our management team or other key personnel could adversely affect our operations.. In addition, we are subject to regulations that allow us to make severance payments only in limited circumstances. Our named executive officers may be entitled to certain severance and change in control benefits. Although we follow certain leading practices with respect to executive compensation including eliminating supplemental executive retirement plans (SERPs) or other nonqualified plans for executives and avoiding severance payments for \"cause\" terminations or voluntary resignations, we may be subject to certain legal or regulatory risks associated with previous employment agreements or retirement plans which could impact our liabilities related to these matters and results of operations.. Other Risk Factors. The above description of risk factors is not exhaustive. Other risk factors are described elsewhere herein as well as in other reports and documents that we file with or furnish to the SEC. Other factors that could also cause results to differ from our expectations may not be described herein or in any such report or document. Each of these factors could by itself, or together with one or more other factors, adversely affect our business, results of operations and/or financial condition."
