[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. The Company's business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows are subject to various risks and uncertainties. Readers of this report should not consider any descriptions of these risk factors to be a complete set of all potential risks that could affect Flotek. These factors should be carefully considered together with the other information contained in this Report and the other reports and materials filed by the Company with the SEC.  Further, many of these risks are interrelated and, as a result, the occurrence of certain. risks could trigger and/or exacerbate other risks. Such a combination could materially increase the severity of the impact of these risks on our business, results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity.. This Annual Report contains \"forward-looking statements,\" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that involve risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements discuss Company prospects, expected revenue,. 4. expenses and profits, strategic and operational initiatives, and other activities. Forward-looking statements also contain suppositions regarding future oil and natural gas industry conditions, as well as market conditions impacting the consumer and industrial business, both domestically and internationally. The Company's results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of a variety of factors, including risks described below and elsewhere. See \"Forward-Looking Statements\" at the beginning of this Annual Report.. Risks Related to the Company's Business. The Company's business is largely dependent upon domestic and international oil and natural gas industry spending, as well as consumer trends in the Company's consumer and industrial business. Spending could be adversely affected by industry conditions, consumer trends or by new or increased governmental regulations, global economic conditions, the availability of credit, and lower oil and natural gas prices. All of these factors are beyond the Company's control. The resulting reductions in customers' expenditures could have a significant adverse effect on Company revenue, margins, and overall operating results.. The Company's energy segment is dependent upon customers' willingness to make operating and capital expenditures for exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas in both North American and global markets. Customers' expectations of a decline in future oil and natural gas market prices could result in curtailed spending, thereby reducing demand for the Company's products and services. Industry conditions are influenced by numerous factors over which the Company has no control, including the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, domestic and international economic conditions, political instability in oil and natural gas producing countries and merger and divestiture activity among oil and natural gas producers and service companies.. The price for oil and natural gas is subject to a variety of factors, including, but not limited to:. • global demand for energy as a result of population growth, economic development, and general economic and business conditions;. • the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (\"OPEC\") to set and maintain production levels and the impact of non-OPEC producers on global supply;. • availability and quantity of natural gas storage;. • import and export volumes and pricing of liquefied natural gas;. • pipeline capacity to critical markets;. • political and economic uncertainty and socio-political unrest;. • cost of exploration, production and transport of oil and natural gas;. • technological advances impacting energy production and consumption; and. • weather conditions.. The volatility of oil and natural gas prices and the consequential effect on exploration and production activity could adversely impact the activity levels of the Company's customers.. One indicator of drilling and completion spending is drilling activity as measured by rig count, which the Company actively monitors to gauge market conditions and forecast product and service demand. In addition, the U.S. Energy Information Administration (\"EIA\") and other industry data sources report completion activity which is utilized by the Company. A reduction in drilling and completion activity could cause a decline in the demand for, or negatively affect the price of, some of the Company's products and services. Domestic demand for oil and natural gas could also be uniquely affected by public attitude regarding drilling in environmentally sensitive areas, vehicle emissions and other environmental standards, alternative fuels, taxation of oil and gas, perception of \"excess profits\" of oil and gas companies, and anticipated changes in governmental regulation and policy.. Volatile economic conditions could weaken customer exploration and production expenditures, causing reduced demand for the Company's products and services and a significant adverse effect on the Company's operating results. It is difficult to predict the pace of industry growth, the direction of oil and natural gas prices, the direction and magnitude of economic activity, and to what extent these conditions could affect the Company. However, reduced cash flow and capital availability could adversely impact the financial condition of the Company's customers, which could result in customer project modifications, delays or cancellations, general business disruptions, and delay in, or nonpayment of, amounts that are owed to the Company. This could cause a negative impact on the Company's results of operations and cash flows.. The Company's consumer and industrial business is dependent on consumer demand for environmentally preferred solvents, as well as flavors and fragrances that are based on the unique attributes of citrus oils. Synthetic and bio-derived chemicals compete with the Company's line of naturally derived products and could affect future demand.. Furthermore, if certain of the Company's suppliers were to experience significant cash flow constraints or become insolvent as a result of such conditions, a reduction or interruption in supplies or a significant increase in the price of supplies could occur, adversely impacting the Company's results of operations and cash flows.. The Company's inability to develop and/or introduce new products or differentiate existing products could have an adverse effect on its ability to be responsive to customers' needs and could result in a loss of customers, as well as adversely affecting the Company's future success and profitability.. 5. The oil and natural gas industry is characterized by technological advancements that have historically resulted in, and will likely continue to result in, substantial improvements in the scope and quality of oilfield chemistries and their function and performance. Consequently, the Company's future success is dependent, in part, upon the Company's continued ability to timely develop innovative products and services. Increasingly sophisticated customer needs and the ability to anticipate and respond to technological and operational advances in the oil and natural gas industry is critical. If the Company fails to successfully develop and introduce innovative products and services that appeal to customers, or if existing or new market competitors develop superior products and services, the Company's revenue and profitability could deteriorate.. Consumer and industrial chemistry markets that purchase the Company's citrus-based products are largely influenced by consumer preference and regulatory requirements. While citrus-based beverage flavorings, retail cleaning products, and fine fragrances perpetually rank high in consumer surveys, the Company's continued success requires new product innovation to keep pace with consumer trends and regulatory issues.  If the Company fails to provide innovative products and services to its customers or to introduce performance products that comply with new environmental regulations, the Company's financial performance could be impacted.. Increased competition could exert downward pressure on prices charged for the Company's products and services.. The Company operates in a competitive environment characterized by large and small competitors. Competitors with greater resources and lower cost structures or who are trying to gain market share may be successful in providing competing products and services to the Company's customers at lower prices than the Company currently charges. This may require the Company to lower its prices, resulting in an adverse impact on revenues, margins, and operating results.. If the Company is unable to adequately protect intellectual property rights or is found to infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others, the Company's business is likely to be adversely affected.. The Company relies on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, non-disclosure agreements, and other security measures to establish and protect the Company's intellectual property rights. Although the Company believes that existing measures are reasonably adequate to protect intellectual property rights, there is no assurance that the measures taken will prevent misappropriation of proprietary information or dissuade others from independent development of similar products or services. Moreover, there is no assurance that the Company will be able to prevent competitors from copying, reverse engineering, modifying, or otherwise obtaining and/or using the Company's technology and proprietary rights to create competitive products or services.  The Company may not be able to enforce intellectual property rights outside of the U.S. Additionally, the laws of certain. countries in which the Company's products and services are manufactured or marketed may not protect the Company's proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S. Furthermore, other third parties may infringe, challenge, invalidate, or circumvent the Company's patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets. In each case, the Company's ability to compete could be significantly impaired.. A portion of the Company's products and services are without patent protection. The issuance of a patent does not guarantee validity or enforceability. The Company's patents may not necessarily be valid or enforceable against third parties. The issuance of a patent does not guarantee that the Company has the right to use the patented invention. Third parties may have blocking patents that could be used to prevent the Company from marketing the Company's own patented products and services and utilizing the Company's patented technology.. The Company is exposed and, in the future, may be exposed to allegations of patent and other  intellectual  property infringement from others. The Company may allege infringement of its patents and other intellectual property rights against others. Under either scenario, the Company could become involved in costly litigation or other legal proceedings regarding its patent or other intellectual property rights, from both an enforcement and defensive standpoint. Even if the Company chooses to enforce its patent or other intellectual property rights against a third party, there may be risk that the Company's patent or other intellectual property rights become invalidated or otherwise unenforceable through legal proceedings. If intellectual property infringement claims are asserted against the Company, the Company could defend itself from such assertions or could seek to obtain a license under the third party's intellectual property rights in order to mitigate exposure. In the event the Company cannot obtain a license, third parties could file lawsuits or other legal proceedings against the Company, seeking damages (including treble damages) or an injunction against the manufacture, use, sale, offer for sale, or importation of the Company's products and services. These could result in the Company having to discontinue the use, manufacture, and sale of certain products and services, increase the cost of selling certain products and services, or result in damage to the Company's reputation. An award of damages, including material royalty payments, or the entry of an injunction order against the use, manufacture, and sale of any of the Company's products and services found to be infringing, could have an adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and ability to compete.. The loss of key customers could have an adverse impact on the Company's results of operations and could result in a decline in the Company's revenue.. The Company has critical customer relationships which are dependent upon production and development activity related to a handful of customers. In the two segments reported in continuing operations, revenue derived from the Company's three largest customers as a percentage of consolidated revenue for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and. 6. 2015, totaled 27%, 36%, and 43%, respectively. Customer relationships are historically governed by purchase orders or other short-term contractual obligations as opposed to long-term contracts. The loss of one or more key customers could have an adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and could result in a decline in the Company's revenue.. Loss of key suppliers, the inability to secure raw materials on a timely basis, or the Company's inability to pass commodity price increases on to customers could have an adverse effect on the Company's ability to service customer's needs and could result in a loss of customers.. Materials used in servicing and manufacturing operations, as well as those purchased for sale, are generally available on the open market from multiple sources. Acquisition costs and transportation of raw materials to Company facilities have historically been impacted by extreme weather conditions. Certain raw materials used by the Energy Chemistry Technologies and the Consumer and Industrial Chemistry Technologies segments are available only from limited sources; accordingly, any disruptions to critical suppliers' operations could adversely impact the Company's operations. Prices paid for raw materials could be affected by energy products and other commodity prices; weather and disease associated with the Company's crop dependent raw materials, specifically citrus greening; tariffs and duties on imported materials; foreign currency exchange rates; and phases of the general business cycle and global demand. The Energy Chemistry Technologies and the Consumer and Industrial Chemistry Technologies segments secure short and long term supply agreements for critical raw materials from both domestic and international vendors.. The prices of key raw materials including citrus terpenes and natural polymers (guar) are subject to market fluctuations which at times can be significant and unpredictable. The Company may be unable to pass along price increases to its customers, which could result in an adverse impact on margins and operating profits. The Company currently uses purchasing strategies designed, where possible, to align the timing of customer demand with supply commitments. However, the Company currently does not hedge commodity prices, but may consider such strategies in the future, and there is no guarantee that the Company's purchasing strategies will prevent cost increases from resulting in adverse impacts on margins and operating profits.. If the Company loses the services of key members of management, the Company may not be able to manage operations and implement growth strategies.. The Company depends on the continued service of the Chief Executive Officer and President, the Chief Financial Officer, the Executive Vice President of Operations, and other key members of the executive management team, who possess significant expertise and knowledge of the Company's business and industry. Furthermore, the Chief Executive Officer and President serves as Chairman of the Board of Directors. The Company has entered into employment. agreements with certain of these key members; however, at December 31, 2017, the Company only carries key man life insurance for the Chief Executive Officer and the Executive Vice President of Operations.  Any loss or interruption of the services of key members of the Company's management could significantly reduce the Company's ability to manage operations effectively and implement strategic business initiatives. Effective February 13, 2017, Robert M. Schmitz retired as the Company's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. On June 30, 2017, Steven A. Reeves retired as the Company's Executive Vice President of Operations. On October 7, 2017, Robert C. Bodnar departed from the Company as the Executive Vice President and Performance and Transformation Officer. The Company can provide no assurance that appropriate replacements for key positions could be found should the need arise.. Failure to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting could have an adverse effect on the Company's operations and the trading price of the Company's common stock.. Effective internal controls are necessary for the Company to provide reliable financial reports, effectively prevent fraud and operate successfully as a public company. If the Company cannot provide reliable financial reports or effectively prevent fraud, the Company's reputation and operating results could be harmed. If the Company is unable to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, the Company may not be able to provide reliable financial reports, which in turn could affect the Company's operating results or cause the Company to fail to meet its reporting obligations. Ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in reported financial information, which could negatively affect the trading price of the Company's common stock, limit the ability of the Company to access capital markets in the future, and require additional costs to improve internal control systems and procedures.. Network disruptions, security threats and activity related to global cyber-crime pose risks to our key operational, reporting and communication systems.. The Company relies on access to information systems for its operations. Failures of, or interference with, access to these systems, such as network communications disruptions, could have an adverse effect on our ability to conduct operations and could directly impact consolidated reporting. Security breaches pose a risk to confidential data and intellectual property, which could result in damages to our competitiveness and reputation. The Company has policies and procedures in place, including system monitoring and data back-up processes, to prevent or mitigate the effects of these potential disruptions or breaches. However, there can be no assurance that existing or emerging threats will not have an adverse impact on our systems or communications networks.. 7. The Company may pursue strategic acquisitions, joint ventures, and strategic divestitures, which could have an adverse impact on the Company's business.. The Company's past and potential future acquisitions, joint ventures, and divestitures involve risks that could adversely affect the Company's business. Negotiations of potential acquisitions, joint ventures, or other strategic relationships, integration of newly acquired businesses, and/or sales of existing businesses could be time consuming and divert management's attention from other business concerns. Acquisitions and joint ventures could also expose the Company to unforeseen liabilities or risks associated with new markets or businesses. Unforeseen operational difficulties related to acquisitions and joint ventures could result in diminished financial performance or require a disproportionate amount of the Company's management's attention and resources. Additionally, acquisitions could result in the commitment of capital resources without the realization of anticipated returns. Divestitures could result in the loss of future earnings without adequate compensation and the loss of unrealized strategic opportunities.. If the Company does not manage the potential difficulties associated with expansion successfully, the Company's operating results could be adversely affected.. The Company has grown over the last several years through internal growth, strategic alliances, and strategic business and asset acquisitions. The Company believes future success will depend, in part, on the Company's ability to adapt to market opportunities and changes, to successfully integrate the operations of any businesses acquired, expansion of existing product and service lines, and potentially expand into new product and service areas in which the Company may not have prior experience. Factors that could result in strategic business difficulties include, but are not limited to:. • failure to effectively integrate acquisitions, joint ventures or strategic alliances;. • failure to effectively plan for risks associated with expansion into areas in which management lacks prior experience;. • lack of experienced management personnel;. • increased administrative burdens;. • lack of customer retention;. • technological obsolescence; and. • infrastructure, technological, communication and logistical problems associated with large, expansive operations.. If the Company fails to manage potential difficulties successfully, the Company's operating results could be adversely impacted.. The Company's ability to grow and compete could be adversely affected if adequate capital is not available.. The ability of the Company to grow and be competitive in the market place is dependent on the availability of adequate capital. Access to capital is dependent, in large part, on the Company's cash flows and the availability of and access to equity and debt financing. The Company's revolving loan agreements require approval and place limits on certain capital transactions and various business acquisitions and combinations. The Company cannot guarantee that cash flows will be sufficient, or that the Company will continue to be able to obtain equity or debt financing on acceptable terms, or at all. As a result, the Company may not be able to finance strategic growth plans, take advantage of business opportunities, or to respond to competitive pressures. The Company filed a \"universal\" shelf registration on September 21, 2017, to permit the ability to sell securities to the public in a timely manner and which it expects to keep active.. The Company's revolving credit facility has variable interest rates that could increase.. At December 31, 2017, the Company had a $75 million revolving credit facility commitment subject to collateral availability limits.  The interest rate on advances under the revolving credit facility varies based on the level of borrowing. Rates range (a) between PNC Bank's base lending rate plus 1.5% to 2.0% or (b) between the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus 2.5% to 3.0%. The Company is required to pay a monthly facility fee of 0.25% per annum, on any unused amount under the commitment based on daily averages. The current credit facility remains in effect until May 10, 2022.. There can be no assurance that the revolving credit facility will not experience significant interest rate increases.. Failure to collect for goods and services sold to key customers could have an adverse effect on the Company's financial results, liquidity and cash flows.. The Company performs credit analysis on potential customers; however, credit analysis does not provide full assurance that customers will be willing and/or able to pay for goods and services purchased from the Company. Furthermore, collectability of international sales can be subject to the laws of foreign countries, which may provide more limited protection to the Company in the event of a dispute over payment. Because sales to domestic and international customers are generally made on an unsecured basis, there can be no assurance of collectability. If one or more major customers are unwilling or unable to pay its debts to the Company, it could have an adverse effect of the Company's financial results, liquidity and cash flows.. Unforeseen contingencies such as litigation could adversely affect the Company's financial condition.. The Company is, and from time to time may become, a party to legal proceedings incidental to the Company's business involving alleged injuries arising from the use of Company products, exposure to hazardous substances, patent. 8. infringement, employment matters, commercial disputes, and shareholder lawsuits. The defense of these lawsuits may require significant expenses, divert management's attention, and may require the Company to pay damages that could adversely affect the Company's financial condition. In addition, any insurance or indemnification rights that the Company may have may be insufficient or unavailable to protect against potential loss exposures.. The Company's current insurance policies may not adequately protect the Company's business from all potential risks.. The Company's operations are subject to risks inherent in the oil and natural gas industry, such as, but not limited to, accidents, blowouts, explosions, fires, severe weather, oil and chemical spills, and other hazards. These conditions can result in personal injury or loss of life, damage to property, equipment and the environment, as well as suspension of customers' oil and gas operations. These events could result in damages requiring costly repairs, the interruption of Company business, including the loss of revenue and profits, and/or the Company being named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting large claims. The Company maintains insurance coverage it believes is adequate and customary to the oil and natural gas services industry to mitigate liabilities associated with these potential hazards. The Company does not have insurance against all foreseeable risks. Consequently, losses and liabilities arising from uninsured or underinsured events could have an adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Regulatory pressures, environmental activism, and legislation could result in reduced demand for the Company's products and services, increase the Company's costs, and adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Regulations restricting volatile organic compounds (\"VOC\") exist in many states and/or communities which limit demand for certain products. Although citrus oil is considered a VOC, its health, safety, and environmental profile is preferred over other solvents (e.g., BTEX), which is currently creating new market opportunities around the world.  Changes in the perception of citrus oils as a preferred VOC, increased consumer activism against hydraulic fracturing or other regulatory or legislative actions by governments could potentially result in materially reduced demand for the Company's products and services and  could adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations.. The Company is subject to complex foreign, federal, state, and local environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations, which expose the Company to liabilities that could adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations.. The Company's operations are subject to foreign, federal, state, and local laws and regulations related to, among other. things, the protection of natural resources, injury, health and safety considerations, chemical exposure assessment, waste management, and transportation of waste and other hazardous materials. The Company's operations expose the Company to risks of environmental liability that could result in fines, penalties, remediation, property damage, and personal injury liability. In order to remain compliant with laws and regulations, the Company maintains permits, authorizations, registrations, and certificates as required from regulatory authorities. Sanctions for noncompliance with such laws and regulations could include assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, revocation of permits, and issuance of corrective action orders.. The Company could incur substantial costs to ensure compliance with existing and future laws and regulations. Laws protecting the environment have generally become more stringent and are expected to continue to evolve and become more complex and restrictive into the future. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could result in material expense associated with future environmental compliance and remediation. The Company's costs of compliance could also increase if existing laws and regulations are amended or reinterpreted. Such amendments or reinterpretations of existing laws or regulations, or the adoption of new laws or regulations, could curtail exploratory or developmental drilling for, and production of, oil and natural gas which, in turn, could limit demand for the Company's products and services. Some environmental laws and regulations could also impose joint and strict liability, meaning that the Company could be exposed in certain situations to increased liabilities as a result of the Company's conduct that was lawful at the time it occurred or conduct of, or conditions caused by, prior operators or other third parties. Remediation expense and other damages arising as a result of such laws and regulations could be substantial and have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. Material levels of the Company's revenue are derived from customers engaged in hydraulic fracturing services, a process that creates fractures extending from the well bore through the rock formation to enable natural gas or oil to flow more easily through the rock pores to a production well. Some states have adopted regulations which require operators to publicly disclose certain non-proprietary information. These regulations could require the reporting and public disclosure of the Company's proprietary chemistry formulas. The adoption of any future federal or state laws or local requirements, or the implementation of regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or otherwise limiting, the hydraulic fracturing process, could increase the difficulty of oil and natural gas well production activity and could have an adverse effect on the Company's future results of operations.. Regulation of greenhouse gases and/or climate change could have a negative impact on the Company's business.. Certain scientific studies have suggested that emissions of certain gases, commonly referred to as \"greenhouse gases,\" which include carbon dioxide, methane, and other volatile. 9. organic compounds, may be contributory to the warming effect of the Earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. In response to such studies, the issue of climate change and the effect of greenhouse gas emissions, in particular emissions from fossil fuels, is attracting increasing worldwide attention. For example, the Paris Agreement was signed in 2016, which sets forth a global framework to address climate change. However, in June 2017, the Trump Administration announced plans to withdraw from the Paris Agreement. Legislation and regulatory initiatives at the federal, regional, state, and local level have been considered and in some cases adopted in an effort to reduce greenhouse gases. Some states have individually or in regional cooperation imposed restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions under various policies and approaches, including establishing a cap on emissions, requiring efficiency measures, or providing incentives for pollution reduction, use of renewable energy sources, or use of replacement fuels with lower carbon content.. Existing or future laws, regulations, treaties, or international agreements related to greenhouse gases, climate change, and indoor air quality, including energy conservation or alternative energy incentives, could have a negative impact on the Company's operations, if regulations resulted in a reduction in worldwide demand for oil, natural gas, and citrus oils. Other results could be increased compliance costs and additional operating restrictions, each of which could have a negative impact on the Company's operations.. Changes in regulatory compliance obligations of critical suppliers may adversely impact our operations.. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (\"Dodd-Frank Act\"), signed into law on July 21, 2010, includes Section 1502, which required the Securities and Exchange Commission to adopt additional disclosure requirements related to certain minerals sourced from the Democratic Republic of Congo and surrounding countries, or \"conflict minerals,\" for which such conflict minerals are necessary to the functionality of a product manufactured, or contracted to be manufactured, by an SEC-reporting company. The metals covered by these rules include tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold. The Company and Company suppliers use some of these materials in their production processes.. In 2014, the Company established management systems and processes and completed due diligence in compliance with the requirements of Section 1502. Future requirements for conducting Conflict Minerals due diligence may result in significant increased costs to the Company. Furthermore, failure of key suppliers to provide evidence of conflict free materials could impact the Company's ability to acquire key raw materials and/or result in higher costs for those raw materials.. The Company and the Company's customers are subject to risks associated with doing business outside of the U.S., including political risk, foreign exchange risk, and other uncertainties.. Revenue from the sale of products to customers outside the U.S. has been steadily increasing. The Company and its customers are subject to risks inherent in doing business outside of the U.S., including, but not limited to:. • governmental instability;. • corruption;. • war and other international conflicts;. • civil and labor disturbances;. • requirements of local ownership;. • cartel behavior;. • partial or total expropriation or nationalization;. • currency devaluation; and. • foreign laws and policies, each of which can limit the movement of assets or funds or result in the deprivation of contractual rights or appropriation of property without fair compensation.. Collections from international customers and agents could also prove difficult due to inherent uncertainties in foreign law and judicial procedures. The Company could experience significant difficulty with collections or recovery due to the political or judicial climate in foreign countries where Company operations occur or in which the Company's products are used.. The Company's international operations must be compliant with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the \"FCPA\") and other applicable U.S. laws. The Company could become liable under these laws for actions taken by employees or agents. Compliance with international laws and regulations could become more complex and expensive thereby creating increased risk as the Company's international business portfolio grows. Further, the U.S. periodically enacts laws and imposes regulations prohibiting or restricting trade with certain nations. The U.S. government could also change these laws or enact new laws that could restrict or prohibit the Company from doing business in identified foreign countries. The Company conducts, and will continue to conduct, business in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Historically, the Company has not hedged against foreign currency fluctuations. Accordingly, the Company's profitability could be affected by fluctuations in foreign exchange rates.. The Company has no control over and can provide no assurances that future laws and regulations will not materially impact the Company's ability to conduct international business.. The Company's tax returns are subject to audit by tax authorities. Taxing authorities may make claims for back taxes, interest, and penalties.. The Company is subject to income, property, excise, employment, and other taxes in the U.S. and a variety of other jurisdictions around the world. Tax rules and regulations in the U.S. and around the world are complex and subject to interpretation. From time to time, taxing authorities conduct audits of the Company's tax filings and may make claims for. 10. increased taxes and, in some cases, assess interest and penalties. The assessments for back taxes, interest, and penalties could be significant. If the Company is unsuccessful in contesting these claims, the resulting payments could result in a drain on the Company's capital resources and liquidity.. Recently enacted U.S. tax legislation, as well as future U.S. tax legislation, may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow.. Comprehensive tax reform legislation enacted in December 2017, commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\"), makes significant changes to U.S. federal income tax laws. The Tax Act, among other things, reduces the corporate income tax rate to 21%, partially limits the deductibility of business interest expense and net operating losses, imposes a one-time tax on unrepatriated earnings from certain foreign subsidiaries, taxes offshore earnings at reduced rates regardless of whether they are repatriated and allows the immediate deduction of certain new investments instead of deductions for depreciation expense over time. Although we have estimated the impact of the newly enacted tax legislation by incorporating assumptions based upon our current interpretation and analysis to date, the Tax Act is complex and far-reaching, and we have not completed our analysis of the actual impact of its enactment on us. There may be other material adverse effects resulting from the Tax Act that we have not identified and that could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow.. Risks Related to the Company's Industries. General economic declines (recessions), limits to credit availability, and industry specific factors could have an adverse effect on energy industry activity, demand for flavor and fragrance products, and the Company's citrus based solvents resulting in lower demand for the Company's products and services.. Worldwide economic uncertainty can reduce the availability of liquidity and credit markets to fund the continuation and expansion of industrial business operations worldwide. The shortage of liquidity and credit combined with pressure on worldwide equity markets could continue to impact the worldwide economic climate. Geopolitical unrest around the world may also impact demand for the Company's products and services both domestically and internationally.. Demand for the Company's energy segment's products and services is dependent on oil and natural gas industry activity and expenditure levels that are directly affected by trends in oil and natural gas prices. Demand for the Company's energy products and services is particularly sensitive to levels of exploration, development, and production activity of, and the corresponding capital spending by, oil and natural gas companies, including national oil companies. One indication of drilling and completion activity and spending is rig count, which the Company monitors to gauge market conditions. In addition, the EIA and other industry data sources report. completion activity which is utilized by the Company. Any prolonged reduction in oil and natural gas prices or drop in rig and/or completion count could depress current levels of exploration, development, and production activity. Perceptions of longer-term lower oil and natural gas prices by oil and natural gas companies could similarly reduce or defer major expenditures given the long-term nature of many large-scale development projects. Lower levels of activity could result in a corresponding decline in the demand for the Company's oil and natural gas well products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's revenue and profitability.. The Company's consumer and industrial customers would be adversely affected if economic activity decreased dramatically. One of the Company's primary products, d-limonene, is often used to replace less desirable solvents in numerous consumer and industrial applications and is often more expensive than other materials. As economic activity decreases, consumer and industrial companies not only consume less solvent, they also may relax their environmental preferences and purchase cheaper solvents. Demand for the Company's flavor and fragrance ingredients could be negatively impacted as a result of a decline in demand for consumer based products containing these ingredients. The Company's revenue and profitability could be negatively impacted if demand for these products softens because of weak economic activity. Furthermore, the segment is a critical supplier of unique flavor and fragrance additives from citrus for use in major retail beverages and fragrances. Reformulations away from natural citrus ingredients by these major retail branded products would adversely affect the segment.. Events in global credit markets can significantly impact the availability of credit and associated financing costs for many of the Company's customers. Many of the Company's customers finance their drilling and completion programs through third-party lenders or public debt offerings. Lack of available credit or increased costs of borrowing could cause customers to reduce spending on drilling programs, thereby reducing demand and potentially resulting in lower prices for the Company's products and services. Also, the credit and economic environment could significantly impact the financial condition of some customers over a prolonged period, leading to business disruptions and restricted ability to pay for the Company's products and services. The Company's forward-looking statements assume that the Company's lenders, insurers, and other financial institutions will be able to fulfill their obligations under various credit agreements, insurance policies, and contracts. If any of the Company's significant lenders, insurers and others are unable to perform under such agreements, and if the Company was unable to find suitable replacements at a reasonable cost, the Company's results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows could be adversely impacted.. A continuing period of depressed oil and natural gas prices could result in further reductions in demand for the. 11. Company's products and services and adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations.. The markets for oil and natural gas have historically been volatile. Such volatility in oil and natural gas prices, or the perception by the Company's customers of unpredictability in oil and natural gas prices, could adversely affect spending levels. The oil and natural gas markets may be volatile in the future. The demand for the Company's products and services is, in large part, driven by general levels of exploration and production spending and drilling activity by its customers. Future declines in oil or natural gas prices could adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations.. New and existing competitors within the Company's industries could have an adverse effect on results of operations.. The oil and natural gas industry is highly competitive. The Company's principal competitors include numerous small companies capable of competing effectively in the Company's markets on a local basis, as well as a number of large companies that possess substantially greater financial and other resources than does the Company. Larger competitors may be able to devote greater resources to developing, promoting, and selling products and services. The Company may also face increased competition due to the entry of new competitors including current suppliers that decide to sell their products and services directly to the Company's customers. As a result of this competition, the Company could experience lower sales or greater operating costs, which could have an adverse effect on the Company's margins and results of operations.. The Company's industry has a high rate of employee turnover. Difficulty attracting or retaining personnel or agents could adversely affect the Company's business.. The Company operates in an industry that has historically been highly competitive in securing qualified personnel with the required technical skills and experience. The Company's services require skilled personnel able to perform physically demanding work. Due to industry volatility, the demanding nature of the work, and the need for industry specific knowledge and technical skills, current employees could choose to pursue employment opportunities outside the Company that offer a more desirable work environment and/or higher compensation than is offered by the Company. As a result of these competitive labor conditions, the Company may not be able to find qualified labor, which could limit the Company's growth. In addition, the cost of attracting and retaining qualified personnel has increased over the past several years due to competitive pressures. In order to attract and retain qualified personnel, the Company may be required to offer increased wages and benefits. If the Company is unable to increase the prices of products and services to compensate for increases in compensation, or is unable to attract and retain. qualified personnel, operating results could be adversely affected.. Severe weather could have an adverse impact on the Company's business.. The Company's business could be materially and adversely affected by severe weather conditions. Hurricanes, tropical storms, flash floods, blizzards, cold weather, and other severe weather conditions could result in curtailment of services, damage to equipment and facilities, interruption in transportation of products and materials, and loss of productivity.  If the Company's customers are unable to operate or are required to reduce operations due to severe weather conditions, and as a result curtail purchases of the Company's products and services, the Company's business could be adversely affected.. A terrorist attack or armed conflict could harm the Company's business.. Terrorist activities, anti-terrorist efforts, and other armed conflicts involving the U.S. could adversely affect the U.S. and global economies and could prevent the Company from meeting financial and other obligations. The Company could experience loss of business, delays or defaults in payments from payors, or disruptions of fuel supplies and markets if pipelines, production facilities, processing plants, or refineries are direct targets or indirect casualties of an act of terror or war. Such activities could reduce the overall demand for oil and natural gas which, in turn, could also reduce the demand for the Company's products and services. Terrorist activities and the threat of potential terrorist activities and any resulting economic downturn could adversely affect the Company's results of operations, impair the ability to raise capital, or otherwise adversely impact the Company's ability to realize certain business strategies.. Risks Related to the Company's Securities. The market price of the Company's common stock has been and may continue to be volatile.. The market price of the Company's common stock has historically been subject to significant fluctuations. The following factors, among others, could cause the price of the Company's common stock to fluctuate significantly due to:. • variations in the Company's quarterly results of operations;. • changes in market valuations of companies in the Company's industry;. • fluctuations in stock market prices and volume;. • fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices;. • issuances of common stock or other securities in the future;. • additions or departures of key personnel;. • announcements by the Company or the Company's competitors of new business, acquisitions, or joint ventures; and. 12. • negative statements made by external parties, about the Company's business, in public forums.. The stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations in recent years that have affected the price of common stock of companies within many industries including the oil and natural gas industry. The price of the Company's common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little to do with the Company's operational performance, and these fluctuations could materially reduce the Company's stock price. The Company could be a defendant in a legal case related to a significant loss of value for the shareholders. This could be expensive and divert management's attention and Company resources, as well as have an adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations.. An active market for the Company's common stock may not continue to exist or may not continue to exist at current trading levels.. Trading volume for the Company's common stock historically has been very volatile when compared to companies with larger market capitalizations. The Company cannot presume that an active trading market for the Company's common stock will continue or be sustained. Sales of a significant number of shares of the Company's common stock in the public market could lower the market price of the Company's stock.. The Company has no plans to pay dividends on the Company's common stock, and, therefore, investors will have to look to stock appreciation for return on investments.. The Company does not anticipate paying any cash dividends on the Company's common stock within the foreseeable future. The Company currently intends to retain future earnings to fund the development and growth of the Company's business and to meet current debt obligations. Any payment of future dividends will be at the discretion of the Company's board of directors and will depend, among other things, on the Company's earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, level of indebtedness, statutory and contractual restrictions applying to the payment of dividends, and other considerations deemed relevant by the board of directors. Additionally, the Company's current credit facility restricts the payment of dividends without the prior written consent of the lenders. Investors must rely on sales of common stock held after price appreciation, which may never occur, in order to realize a return on their investment.. Certain anti-takeover provisions of the Company's charter documents and applicable Delaware law could discourage or prevent others from acquiring the Company, which may adversely affect the market price of the Company's common stock.. The Company's certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that:. • permit the Company to issue, without stockholder approval, up to 100,000 shares of preferred stock, in. one or more series and, with respect to each series, to fix the designation, powers, preferences, and rights of the shares of the series;. • prohibit stockholders from calling special meetings;. • limit the ability of stockholders to act by written consent;. • prohibit cumulative voting; and. • require advance notice for stockholder proposals and nominations for election to the board of directors to be acted upon at meetings of stockholders.. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law limits business combinations with owners of more than 15% of the Company's stock without the approval of the board of directors. Aforementioned provisions and other similar provisions make it more difficult for a third party to acquire the Company exclusive of negotiation. The Company's board of directors could choose not to negotiate with an acquirer deemed not beneficial to or synergistic with the Company's strategic outlook. If an acquirer were discouraged from offering to acquire the Company or prevented from successfully completing a hostile acquisition by these anti-takeover measures, stockholders could lose the opportunity to sell their shares at a favorable price.. Future issuance of additional shares of common stock could cause dilution of ownership interests and adversely affect the Company's stock price.. The Company is currently authorized to issue up to 80,000,000 shares of common stock. The Company may, in the future, issue previously authorized and unissued shares of common stock, which would result in the dilution of current stockholders ownership interests. Additional shares are subject to issuance through various equity compensation plans or through the exercise of currently outstanding options. The potential issuance of additional shares of common stock may create downward pressure on the trading price of the Company's common stock. The Company may also issue additional shares of common stock or other securities that are convertible into or exercisable for common stock in order to raise capital or effectuate other business purposes. Future sales of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that sales could occur, could have an adverse effect on the price of the Company's common stock.. The Company filed a \"universal\" shelf registration on September 21, 2017, to permit the ability to sell securities to the public in a timely manner and which it expects to keep active.. The Company may issue shares of preferred stock or debt securities with greater rights than the Company's common stock.. Subject to the rules of the NYSE, the Company's certificate of incorporation authorizes the board of directors to issue one or more additional series of preferred stock and to set the terms of the issuance without seeking approval from holders of. 13. common stock. Currently, there are 100,000 preferred shares authorized, with no shares currently outstanding. Any preferred stock that is issued may rank senior to common stock in terms of dividends, priority and liquidation premiums, and may have greater voting rights than holders of common stock.. The Company's ability to use net operating loss carryforwards  and  tax  attribute  carryforwards  to  offset future taxable income may be limited as a result of transactions involving the Company's common stock.. Under section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, a corporation that undergoes an \"ownership change\" is subject to limitations on the Company's ability to utilize pre-change net operating losses (\"NOLs\"), and certain other tax attributes to offset future taxable income. In general, an ownership change occurs if the aggregate stock ownership of certain stockholders increases by more than 50 percentage points over such stockholders' lowest percentage ownership during the testing period (generally three years). An ownership change could limit the Company's ability to utilize existing NOLs and tax attribute carryforwards for taxable years including or following an identified \"ownership change.\"  Transactions involving the Company's common stock, even. those outside the Company's control, such as purchases or sales by investors, within the testing period could result in an \"ownership change.\" In addition, under the Tax Act, the ability to carry back NOLs to prior taxable years is generally eliminated, and while NOLs arising in tax years beginning after 2017 may be carried forward indefinitely, these post-2017 NOLs may only reduce 80% of the Company's taxable income in a tax year. Limitations imposed on the ability to use NOLs and tax credits to offset future taxable income could reduce or eliminate the benefit of the NOLs and tax attributes and could require the Company to pay U.S. federal income taxes in excess of that which would otherwise be required if such limitations were not in effect. Similar rules and limitations may apply for state income tax purposes.. Disclaimer of Obligation to Update. Except as required by applicable law or regulation, the Company assumes no obligation (and specifically disclaims any such obligation) to update these risk factors or any other forward-looking statement contained in this Annual Report to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions, or other factors affecting such forward-looking statements."
