[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. Our business, financial condition, operating results, and cash flows may be impacted by a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including those set forth below and elsewhere in this 2017 Form 10-K, the occurrence of any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our actual results.. Risks Relating to Our Business. We have a history of losses and negative cash flow from operations which makes our future results uncertain.. Since inception, we have incurred operating losses and negative cash flow from operations. We need to generate greater revenue from the sale of our products and services if we are to achieve and sustain profitability. If we are unable to generate greater revenue, we may not be able to achieve profitability or generate positive cash flow from operations in the future.. Our products and services are highly technical and if they contain undetected errors, our business could be adversely affected and we may have to defend lawsuits or pay damages in connection with any alleged or actual failure of our products and services.. Our products and services are highly technical and complex. Our products and services have contained and may contain one or more undetected errors, defects or security vulnerabilities. Some errors in our products and services may only be discovered after a product or service has been used by end customers. Any errors or security vulnerabilities discovered in our products after commercial release could result in loss of revenue or delay in revenue recognition, or loss of customers, any of which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, we could face claims for product liability or breach of personally identifiable information. Defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, is costly and may divert management's attention. In addition, if our business liability insurance coverage is inadequate or future coverage is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, our financial condition could be harmed.. Because our networks and information technology systems are critical to our success, if unauthorized persons hack into our systems or our systems otherwise cease to function properly, our operations could be adversely affected and we could lose revenue or proprietary information, all of which could materially adversely affect our business.. As our business is conducted largely online, it is dependent on our networks being accessible and secure. If an actual or perceived breach of network security occurs, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to our network security controls, the market perception of the effectiveness of our network security could be harmed resulting in loss of current and potential end user customers, data suppliers, or cause us to lose potential value-added resellers. Our business is largely dependent on our customer-facing websites and our websites may be inaccessible because of service interruptions or subject to hacking or computer attacks. Because the techniques used by computer hackers to access or sabotage networks change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques. If an actual or perceived breach were to occur, we cannot assure you that we would not lose revenue or not sustain operating losses as a result.. 11. We also rely heavily on large information technology databases and the ability to provide services using that information. A party who is able to breach the security measures on our networks could misappropriate either our proprietary information or the personal information of consumers that we collect, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions to our operations. Hacking of computer data systems is a growing problem throughout the United States. If we grow and obtain more visibility, we may be more vulnerable to hacking. Moreover, the increased use of mobile devices also increases the risk of intentional and unintentional theft or disclosure of data including personally identifiable information. We may be unable to anticipate all of these vulnerabilities and implement adequate preventative measures and, in some cases, we may not be able to immediately detect a security incident.  Any security incident may also result in a misappropriation of our proprietary information or that of our users, clients, and third-party publishers, which could result in legal and financial liability, as well as harm to our reputation.. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against such threats or to alleviate problems caused by breaches in security. Additionally, any server interruptions, break-downs or system failures, including failures which may be attributable to events within our control, could increase our future operating costs and cause us to lose business. We maintain insurance policies covering losses relating to our network systems or other assets. However, these policies may not cover the entire cost of a claim. Any future disruptions in our information technology systems, whether caused by hacking or otherwise, may have a material adverse effect on our future results.. Privacy concerns relating to our data collection practices and any perceived or actual unauthorized disclosure of personally identifiable information, whether  through breach of our network by an unauthorized party, employee theft, misuse, or error could harm our reputation, impair our ability to attract website visitors and to attract and retain clients, result in a loss of confidence in the security of our products and services, or subject us to claims or litigation  arising from damages suffered by consumers, and thereby harm our business and results of operations. In addition, we could incur significant costs for which our insurance policies may not adequately cover and cause us to expend significant resources in protecting against security breaches and complying with the multitude of state, federal and foreign laws regarding data privacy and data breach notification obligations.. We must adequately protect our intellectual property in order to prevent loss of valuable proprietary information.. We rely primarily upon a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as other intellectual property laws, and confidentiality procedures and contractual agreements, such as non-disclosure agreements, to protect our proprietary technology.  However, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or reverse-engineer aspects of our products or services or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our products or services is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property. If the protection of our intellectual property proves to be inadequate or unenforceable, others may be able to use our proprietary developments without compensation to us, resulting in potential cost advantages to our competitors.. Some of our systems and technologies are not covered by any copyright, patent or patent application. We cannot guarantee that: (i) our intellectual property rights will provide us with a competitive advantage; (ii) our ability to assert our intellectual property rights against potential competitors or to settle current or future disputes will be effective; (iii) our intellectual  property rights will be enforced in jurisdictions where competition may be intense or where legal protection may be weak; (iv) any of the patent, trademark, copyright, trade secret or other intellectual property rights that we presently employ in our business will not lapse or be invalidated, circumvented, challenged, or abandoned; (v) competitors will not design around our protected systems and technology; or (vi) that we will not lose the ability to assert our intellectual property rights against others.. Policing unauthorized use of our proprietary rights can be difficult and costly. Litigation, while it may be necessary to enforce or protect our intellectual property rights, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention and could adversely affect our business, even if we are successful on the merits. In addition, others may independently discover trade secrets and proprietary information, and in such cases we could not assert any trade secret rights against such parties.. We depend, in part, on strategic alliances, joint ventures and acquisitions to grow our business. If we are unable to make strategic acquisitions and develop and maintain these strategic alliances and joint ventures, our growth may be adversely affected.. An important focus of our business is to identify business partners who can enhance our services, enable us to develop solutions that differentiate us from our competitors, drive users to our websites and monetize our data. We have entered into several alliance agreements or license agreements with respect to certain of our datasets and services and may enter into similar agreements in the future. These arrangements may require us to restrict our use of certain of our technologies or datasets among certain customer industries, restrict content on our websites or grant licenses on terms that ultimately may prove to be unfavorable to us, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Relationships with our alliance agreement partners may include risks due to incomplete information regarding the marketplace and commercial strategies of our partners, and our alliance agreements or other licensing agreements may be the subject of contractual disputes. If we or our alliance agreements' partners are not. 12. successful in maintaining or commercializing the alliance agreements' services, such commercial failure could adversely affect our business.. If we consummate any future acquisitions, we will be subject to the risks inherent in identifying, acquiring and operating a newly acquired business.. On March 21, 2015, we acquired IDI Holdings and transformed the nature of our business. IDI Holdings, in turn, had acquired Interactive Data, its core business, in October 2014 shortly following IDI Holdings' incorporation. On December 8, 2015, we acquired Fluent, a company that had greater revenue and headcount than cogint prior to the acquisition. On June 8, 2016, we acquired Q Interactive. We may, in the future, acquire additional businesses, which we believe could complement or expand our current business or offer growth opportunities. We may experience difficulties in identifying potential acquisition candidates that complement our current business at appropriate prices, or at all. We cannot assure you that our acquisition strategy will be successful. We may spend significant management time and resources in analyzing and negotiating acquisitions or investments that are not consummated. Furthermore, the ongoing process of integrating an acquired business is distracting, time consuming, expensive, and requires continuous optimization and allocation of resources. Additionally, if we use stock as consideration, this would dilute our existing shareholders and if we use cash, this would reduce our liquidity and impact our financial flexibility. We may seek debt financing for particular acquisitions, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We face the risks associated with the business acquisition strategy, including:. •  the potential disruption of our existing businesses, including the diversion of management attention and the redeployment of resources;. •  entering new markets or industries in which we have limited prior experience;. •  our failure in due diligence to identify key issues specific to the businesses we seek to acquire or the industries or other environments in which they operate, or, failure to protect against contingent liabilities arising from those issues;. •  unforeseen, hidden or fraudulent liabilities;. •  our difficulties in integrating, aligning and coordinating organizations which will likely be geographically separated and may involve diverse business operations and corporate cultures;. •  our difficulties in integrating and retaining key management, sales, research and development, production and other personnel;. •  the potential loss of key employees, customers or distribution partners of the acquired businesses;. •  our difficulties in incorporating the acquired business into our organization;. •  the potential loss of customers, distributors or suppliers;. •  our difficulties in integrating or expanding information technology systems and other business processes to accommodate the acquired business;. •  the risks associated with integrating financial reporting and internal control systems, including the risk that significant deficiencies or material weaknesses may be identified in acquired entities;. •  the potential for future impairments of goodwill and other intangible assets if the acquired business does not perform as expected;. •  the inability to obtain necessary government approvals for the acquisition, if any; and. •  our successfully operating the acquired business.. If we cannot overcome these challenges, we may not realize actual benefits from past and future acquisitions, which will impair our overall business results. If we complete an investment or acquisition, we may not realize the anticipated benefits from the transaction.. Our business is subject to various governmental regulations, laws and orders, compliance with which may cause us to incur significant expenses or reduce the availability or effectiveness of our solutions, and the failure to comply with which could subject us to civil or criminal penalties or other liabilities.. Our businesses are subject to regulation under the GLBA, DPPA, HIPAA, FTC Act, TCPA, CAN-SPAM Act and various other federal, state and local laws and regulations. These laws and regulations, which generally are designed to protect the privacy of the public and to prevent the misuse of personal information available in the marketplace and prevent deceptive practices in advertising and online marketing and telemarketing are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. We have already incurred significant expenses in our attempt to ensure compliance with these laws.. 13. These U.S. federal and state and foreign laws and regulations, which can be enforced by government entities or, in some cases, private parties, are constantly evolving and can be subject to significant change. Keeping our business in compliance with or bringing our business into compliance with new laws may be costly, and may affect our revenue and/or harm our financial results. In addition, the application, interpretation, and enforcement of these laws and regulations are often uncertain, particularly in the new and rapidly evolving industry in which we operate, and may be interpreted and applied inconsistently from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and inconsistently with our current policies and practices. Parts of our business, which rely on third party publishers to drive traffic to our sites, could be adversely impacted if we or any of our third-party publishers or our clients violate applicable laws. In addition, new laws or regulations or changes in enforcement of existing laws or regulations applicable to our clients could affect the activities or strategies of such clients and, therefore, lead to reductions in their level of business with us.. The following legal and regulatory developments also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations:. •  amendment, enactment or interpretation of laws and regulations that restrict the access and use of personal information and reduce the availability or effectiveness of our solutions or the supply of data available;. •  changes in cultural and consumer attitudes in favor of further restrictions on information collection and sharing, which may lead to regulations that prevent full utilization of our solutions;. •  failure of data suppliers or customers to comply with laws or regulations, where mutual compliance is required;. •  failure of our solutions to comply with current laws and regulations; and. •  failure of our solutions to adapt to changes in the regulatory environment in an efficient, cost-effective manner.. Changes in applicable legislation or regulations that restrict or dictate how we collect, maintain, combine and disseminate information could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In the future, we may be subject to significant additional expense to ensure continued compliance with applicable laws and regulations and to investigate, defend or remedy actual or alleged violations.. We supply data to call center clients for telemarketing which may subject them to claims under the TCPA, which has become a fertile source for both individual and class action lawsuits and regulatory actions. We have expended considerable resources to comply with the TCPA and incurred additional costs to insure against TCPA-related claims and have not experienced material losses from TCPA claims. Our failure to adhere to or successfully implement appropriate processes and procedures in response to and to defend against TCPA related claims could result in legal and monetary liability, significant fines and penalties, or damage to our reputation in the marketplace, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. In connection with our third-party publishers' email campaigns to generate traffic for our websites, we are subject to various state and federal laws regulating commercial email communications, including the CAN-SPAM Act and the California Anti-Spam Act. If we or any of our third-party publishers fail to comply with any provisions of these laws or regulations, we could be subject to regulatory investigation, enforcement actions, and litigation and claims. Any negative outcomes from such regulatory actions or litigation or claims, including monetary penalties or damages, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operation, and reputation.. The outcome of litigation, inquiries, investigations, examinations or other legal proceedings in which we are involved, in which we may become involved, or in which our customers or competitors are involved could subject us to significant monetary damages or restrictions on our ability to do business.. Legal proceedings arise frequently as part of the normal course of our business. These may include individual consumer cases, class action lawsuits and inquiries, investigations, examinations, regulatory proceedings or other actions brought by federal (e.g., the FTC) or state (e.g., state attorneys general) authorities. The scope and outcome of these proceedings is often difficult to assess or quantify. Plaintiffs in lawsuits may seek recovery of large amounts and the cost to defend such litigation may be significant. There may also be adverse publicity and uncertainty associated with investigations, litigation and orders (whether pertaining to us, our customers or our competitors) that could decrease customer acceptance of our services or result in material discovery expenses. In addition, a court-ordered injunction or an administrative cease-and-desist order or settlement may require us to modify our business practices or may prohibit conduct that would otherwise be legal and in which our competitors may engage. Many of the technical and complex statutes to which we are subject, including state and federal financial privacy requirements, may provide for civil and criminal penalties and may permit consumers to maintain individual or class action lawsuits against us and obtain statutorily prescribed damages. Additionally, our customers might face similar proceedings, actions or inquiries which could affect their business and, in turn, our ability to do business with those customers.. 14. While we do not believe that the outcome of any pending or threatened legal proceeding, investigation, examination or supervisory activity will have a material adverse effect on our financial position, such events are inherently uncertain and adverse outcomes could result in significant monetary damages, penalties or injunctive relief against us. Furthermore, we review legal proceedings and claims on an ongoing basis and follow appropriate accounting guidance, including ASC 450, when making accrual and disclosure decisions. We establish accruals for those contingencies where the incurrence of a loss is probable and can be reasonably estimated, and we disclose the amount accrued and the amount of a reasonably possible loss in excess of the amount accrued, if such disclosure is necessary for our financial statements to not be misleading. To estimate whether a loss contingency should be accrued by a charge to income, we evaluate, among other factors, the degree of probability of an unfavorable outcome and the ability to make a reasonable estimate of the amount of the loss. We do not record liabilities when the likelihood that the liability has been incurred is probable, but the amount cannot be reasonably estimated.. Our relationships with key customers may be materially diminished or terminated.. We have established relationships with a number of customers, many of whom could unilaterally terminate their relationship with us or materially reduce the amount of business they conduct with us at any time. Market competition, customer requirements, customer financial condition and customer consolidation through mergers or acquisitions also could adversely affect our ability to continue or expand these relationships. There is no guarantee that we will be able to retain or renew existing agreements, maintain relationships with any of our customers on acceptable terms or at all or collect amounts owed to us from insolvent customers. The loss of one or more of our major customers could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we lose the services of key personnel, it could adversely affect our business.. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Our future also depends on the continued services of Michael Brauser, our Chairman, Derek Dubner, our Chief Executive Officer, Ole Poulsen, our Chief Science Officer, Ryan Schulke, CEO of Fluent, Matthew Conlin, President of Fluent, and other key employees in all areas of our organization, each of whom is important to the management of certain aspects of our business and operations and the development of our strategic direction, and each of whom may be difficult to replace. We carry \"key man\" life insurance policies on Mr. Dubner and Mr. Schulke in the amount of $10.0 million each, the beneficiary of which is HIG Whitehorse, the holder of our $60.0 million term loans pursuant to the Credit Agreement (\"Credit Agreement\") dated December 8, 2015, as amended. The loss of the services of these key individuals and the process to replace these individuals would involve significant time and expense and could significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives.. Risks Relating to Our Information Services Segment. If we fail to respond to rapid technological changes in the big data and analytics sector, we may lose customers and/or our products and/or services may become obsolete.. The big data and analytics sector is characterized by rapidly changing technology, frequent product introductions, and continued evolution of new industry standards. As a result, our success depends upon our ability to develop and introduce in a timely manner new products and services and enhancements to existing products and services that meet changing customer requirements and evolving industry standards. The development of technologically advanced product solutions is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation, rapid response and accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify, develop, manufacture, market or support new or enhanced products and services successfully in a timely manner. Further, we or our competitors may introduce new products or services or product enhancements that shorten the life cycle of existing products or services or cause existing products or services to become obsolete.. Our revenue is concentrated in the U.S. market across a broad range of industries. When these industries or the broader financial markets experience a downturn, demand for our services and revenue may be adversely affected.. Our customers, and therefore our business and revenue, sometimes depend on favorable macroeconomic conditions and are impacted by the availability of credit, the level and volatility of interest rates, inflation, employment levels, consumer confidence and housing demand. In addition, a significant amount of our revenue is concentrated among certain industries. Our customer base suffers when financial markets experience volatility, illiquidity and disruption, which has occurred in the past and which could reoccur. Such market developments, and the potential for increased and continuing disruptions going forward, present considerable risks to our business and operations. Changes in the economy have resulted, and may continue to result, in fluctuations in volumes, pricing and operating margins for our services. For example, the banking and financial market downturn that began to affect U.S. businesses in 2008 caused a greater focus on expense reduction by customers of businesses similar to ours. If businesses in these industries experience economic hardship, we cannot assure you that we will be able to generate future revenue growth. These types of. 15. disruptions could lead to a decline in the volumes of services we provide our customers and could negatively impact our revenue and results of operations.. We could lose our access to data sources which could prevent us from providing our services.. Our services and products depend extensively upon continued access to and receipt of data from external sources, including data received from customers, strategic partners and various government and public records repositories. In some cases, we compete with our data providers. Our data providers could stop providing data, provide untimely data or increase the costs for their data for a variety of reasons, including a perception that our systems are insecure as a result of a data security breach, budgetary constraints, a desire to generate additional revenue or for regulatory or competitive reasons. We could also become subject to increased legislative, regulatory or judicial restrictions or mandates on the collection, disclosure or use of such data, in particular if such data is not collected by our providers in a way that allows us to legally use the data. If we were to lose access to this external data or if our access or use were restricted or were to become less economical or desirable, our ability to provide services could be negatively impacted, which would adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot provide assurance that we will be successful in maintaining our relationships with these external data source providers or that we will be able to continue to obtain data from them on acceptable terms or at all. Furthermore, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to obtain data from alternative sources if our current sources become unavailable.. We face intense competition from both start-up and established companies that may have significant advantages over us and our products.. The market for our products and services is intensely competitive. There are numerous companies competing with us in various segments of the big data and analytics sector, and their products and services may have advantages over our products and services in areas such as conformity to existing and emerging industry standards, performance, price, ease of use, scalability, reliability, flexibility, product features and technical support.. Our principal competitors in the big data and analytics sector include Palantir, RELX Group (LexisNexis), TransUnion, Thomson Reuters, Acxiom, and Alliance Data. Current and potential competitors may have one or more of the following significant advantages:. •  greater financial, technical and marketing resources;. •  better name recognition;. •  more comprehensive solutions;. •  better or more extensive cooperative relationships; and. •  larger customer base.. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully with our existing or new competitors. Some of our competitors may have, in relation to us, one or more of the following: longer operating histories, longer-standing relationships with end-user customers and greater customer service, public relations and other resources. As a result, these competitors may be able to more quickly develop or adapt to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products and services. Additionally, it is likely that new competitors or alliances among existing competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share.. There may be further consolidation in our end-customer markets, which may adversely affect our revenue.. There has been, and we expect there will continue to be, merger, acquisition and consolidation activity in our customer markets. If our customers merge with, or are acquired by, other entities that are not our customers, or that use fewer of our services, our revenue may be adversely impacted. In addition, industry consolidation could affect the base of recurring transaction-based revenue if consolidated customers combine their operations under one contract, since many of our contracts provide for volume discounts. In addition, our existing customers might leave certain geographic markets, which would no longer require them to purchase certain products from us and, consequently, we would generate less revenue than we currently expect.. To the extent the availability of free or relatively inexpensive consumer and/or business information increases, the demand for some of our services may decrease.. Public and commercial sources of free or relatively inexpensive consumer and business information have become increasingly available and this trend is expected to continue. Public and commercial sources of free or relatively inexpensive consumer and/or business information may reduce demand for our services. To the extent that our customers choose not to obtain services from us and. 16. instead rely on information obtained at little or no cost from these public and commercial sources, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.. If our newer products do not achieve market acceptance, revenue growth may suffer.. Our Information Services products have been in the market place for a limited period of time and may have longer sales cycles than competitive products. Accordingly, we may not achieve the meaningful revenue growth needed to sustain operations. We cannot provide any assurances that sales of our newer products will continue to grow or generate sufficient revenue to sustain our business. If we are unable to recognize revenue due to longer sales cycles or other problems, our results of operations could be adversely affected.. We have not yet received broad market acceptance for our newer products. We cannot assure you that our present or future products will achieve market acceptance on a sustained basis. In order to achieve market acceptance and achieve future revenue growth, we must introduce complementary products, incorporate new technologies into existing product lines and design, and develop and successfully commercialize higher performance products in a timely manner. We cannot assure you that we will be able to offer new or complementary products that gain market acceptance quickly enough to avoid decreased revenue during current or future product introductions or transitions.. Our products and services can have long sales and implementation cycles, which may result in substantial expenses before realizing any associated revenue.. The sale and implementation of our products and services to large companies and government entities typically involves a lengthy education process and a significant technical evaluation and commitment of capital and other resources. This process is also subject to the risk of delays associated with customers' internal budgeting and other procedures for approving capital expenditures, and testing and accepting new technologies that affect key operations. As a result, sales and implementation cycles for our products and services can be lengthy, and we may expend significant time and resources before we receive any revenue from a customer or potential customer. Our quarterly and annual operating results could be adversely affected if orders forecast for a specific customer and for a particular period are not realized.. Consolidation in the big data and analytics sector may limit market acceptance of our products and services.. Several of our competitors have acquired companies with complementary technologies in the past. We expect consolidation in the industries we serve to continue in the future. These acquisitions may permit our competitors to accelerate the development and commercialization of broader product lines and more comprehensive solutions than we currently offer. Acquisitions by our competitors of vendors or other companies with whom we have a strategic relationship may limit our access to commercially significant technologies. Further, business combinations are creating companies with larger market shares, customer bases, sales forces, product offerings and technology and marketing expertise, which may make it more difficult for us to compete.. We may incur substantial expenses defending the Company against claims of infringement.. There are numerous patents held by many companies relating to the design and manufacture of data and analytics solutions. Third parties may claim that our products and/or services infringe on their intellectual property rights. Any claim, with or without merit, could consume management's time, result in costly litigation, cause delays in sales or implementation of products or services or require entry into royalty or licensing agreements. In this respect, patent and other intellectual property litigation is becoming increasingly more expensive in terms of legal fees, expert fees and other expenses. Royalty and licensing agreements, if required and available, may be on terms unacceptable to us or detrimental to our business. Moreover, a successful claim of product infringement against us or our failure or inability to license the infringed or similar technology on commercially reasonable terms could seriously harm our business.. Risks Related to Our Performance Marketing Segment. We operate in an industry that is still developing and has a relatively new business model that is continually evolving, which makes it difficult to evaluate our business and prospects.. Our Performance Marketing segment derives nearly all of its revenue from the sale of online marketing and media services, which is still a developing industry that has undergone rapid and dramatic changes in its relatively short history and which is characterized by rapidly-changing internet media and advertising technology, evolving industry standards, regulatory uncertainty, and changing user and client demands. As a result, we face risks and uncertainties such as:. •  the still-developing industry and relatively new business model;. 17. •  changes in the economic condition, market dynamics, regulatory enforcement or legislative environment affecting its, its third-party publishers', and its clients' businesses;. •  its dependence on the availability and affordability of quality media from third-party publishers;. •  its dependence on internet search companies to attract internet visitors;. •  its ability to compete in its industry;. •  its ability to manage cyber security risks and costs associated with maintaining a robust security infrastructure;. •  its inability to monetize users accessing its sites on mobile devices at the same levels as was achieved from users accessing its sites from PCs;. •  its ability to develop new services, enhancements and features to meet new demands from its clients; and. •  its ability to comply with and avoid regulatory scrutiny in a rapidly evolving legal and regulatory environment.. If we are unable to address these risks, our business, results of operations, and prospects may be adversely affected.. An increasing percentage of our users are accessing our websites from their mobile devices. Our ability to remain competitive with the shift to mobile devices is critical to maintaining our revenue and margins.. A greater percentage of our users are accessing our websites from their mobile devices. We will need to ensure our websites continue to perform well as more consumers shift their online interactions from desktop computers to smartphones, tablets, wearables, and other next generation platforms and devices. While we design and build our websites \"mobile first,\" as more of our users access our websites from mobile devices, the monetization of our online marketing services and content on these mobile devices might not be as lucrative for us compared to those on desktop and laptop computers. If we fail to develop the monetization of the mobile versions of our websites effectively, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected.. We are dependent on third-party publishers for a significant portion of visitors to our websites. Any decline in the supply of media available through these websites or increase in the price of this media could cause our revenue to decline or increase the cost to acquire visitors to our websites.. A significant portion of our revenue is attributable to visitor traffic originating from third-party publishers. Third-party publishers can change the media inventory they make available to us at any time and place significant restrictions on our content offerings. These restrictions may limit the websites that we can promote or prohibit advertisements from specific clients or specific industries, or restrict the use of certain creative content or formats. If a third-party publisher decides not to make media inventory available to us, or decides to demand a higher revenue share or places significant restrictions on the use of such inventory, we may not be able to find media inventory from other websites that satisfy our requirements in a timely and cost-effective manner. In addition, the number of competing online marketing service providers and advertisers that acquire inventory from websites continues to increase. Consolidation of internet advertising networks and third-party publishers could eventually lead to a concentration of desirable inventory on websites or networks owned by a small number of persons, which could limit the supply or impact the pricing of inventory available to us. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to acquire media inventory that meets our performance, price, and quality requirements, in which our business and results of operations may be adversely affected.. We also purchase media directly from ad networks, search engines and platforms that provide us the ability to access media (inventory) from a range of websites. Many of these publishers also have their own guidelines on acceptable content, advertisements and the types of advertisers and websites that can advertise on their properties. These guidelines change frequently and the changes are often unpublished. If we are restricted from buying media from these platforms, ad networks and/or search engines, our results could be adversely affected.. We depend on internet search providers for a portion of the visitors to our websites. Changes in search engine algorithms applicable to our websites' placements in paid search result listings may cause the number of visitors to our websites to decrease, and as a result, cause our revenue to decline.. Our success depends on our ability to attract online visitors to our websites and monetize them in a cost-effective manner. We use paid search listings from search engine providers such as Google, Bing and Yahoo! by bidding on particular keywords and other strategies. The search engine operators use a quality score which is determined by the relevancy of the ad to the keyword bid on, the click-through rates of the ad, and the amount bid, to determine the placement of the ad in the search results listings. The search engine providers frequently change the algorithms and bidding rules and may exclude certain sites they deem unacceptable from bidding on. 18. paid search listings. We may fail to optimally manage our paid listings or operate our websites in a manner that does not run afoul of the search engine requirements. In that case, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected.. Our operations have grown dramatically over the past years which may make it difficult to effectively manage any future growth and scale our products quickly enough to meet our clients' needs while maintaining profitability.. We have historically experienced growth in our operations. This growth has placed, and any future growth will continue to place, significant demands on our management and our operational and financial infrastructure. Growth, if any, may make it more difficult for us to accomplish the following:. •  successfully scale our technology to accommodate a larger business and integrate acquisitions;. •  maintain our standing with key vendors, including internet search companies and third-party publishers;. •  maintain our client service standards;. •  develop and improve our operational, financial and management controls and maintaining adequate reporting systems and procedures; and. •  hire, train and manage additional staff needed to manage future growth.. Our future success depends in part on the efficient performance of our software and technology infrastructure. As the number of websites, internet users and the amount of data collected increases, our technology infrastructure may not be able to meet the increased demand. Unexpected constraints on our technology infrastructure could lead to slower website response times or system failures and adversely affect the availability of websites and the level of user responses received, which could result in the loss of clients or revenue or harm to our business and/or results of operations.. In addition, our systems, procedures, processes, and controls may be inadequate to support our future operations. The improvements required to manage growth may require us to make significant expenditures, and reallocate valuable management resources. We may spend substantial amounts to secure hosting and other technical services and data storage, upgrade our technology and network infrastructure to handle increased traffic on our owned-and-operated websites and roll out new products and services. This expansion could be expensive and complex and could result in inefficiencies or operational failures. If we do not implement this expansion successfully, or if we experience inefficiencies and/or operational failures during our implementation, the quality of our products and services and our users' experience could decline. This could damage our reputation and cause us to lose current and potential users and clients. The costs associated with these adjustments to our architecture could harm our operating results. Accordingly, if we fail to effectively manage growth, our operating performance will suffer, and we may lose clients, key vendors and key personnel.. We will need to expand our workforce to meet the needs of our business. We operate in a specialized niche of the online advertising and data acquisition marketplace and finding experienced qualified applicants and training them can prove challenging. If we are unable to hire, train and effectively manage a sufficient number of new employees, we may not be able to capitalize on opportunities and/or may not be able to continue to grow our business at past levels.. Historically, our quarterly and annual results of operations have rapidly increased due to several favorable factors, some of which are beyond our control. Moreover, we are one of the larger players in our market segment. Because of these factors, we may not be able to increase our market share and/or sustain our recent rapid growth. Our inability to sustain our growth could cause our performance and outlook to be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors.. As a result of changes in our business model and the need for increased investments and expenditures for certain businesses, products, services, and technologies, we may fail to maintain our margins, attract new clients, or grow our revenue.. We have invested in new businesses, products, markets, services and technologies and plan to expand our work force to meet the needs of revenue growth. Based on our experience, new websites, products and services have lower margins than more established websites, products and services. If we are unsuccessful in our optimization efforts for new websites and products, we may fail to maintain our margins, attract new clients or grow our revenue.. If we fail to compete effectively against other online marketing and media companies and other competitors, we could lose clients and our revenue may decline.. The market for online marketing is intensely competitive, and we expect this competition to continue and to increase in the future, both from existing competitors and, given the relatively low barriers to entry into the market, from new competitors. We compete both. 19. for clients and for limited high-quality media. We compete for clients on the basis of a number of factors, including return on investment of client's marketing spending, price, and client service.. We compete with internet and traditional media companies for a share of clients' overall marketing budgets, including:. •  offline and online advertising agencies;. •  major internet portals and search engine companies with advertising networks;. •  other online marketing service providers, including online affiliate advertising networks and industry-specific portals or email marketing companies;. •  third-party publishers with their own sales forces that sell their online marketing services directly to clients;. •  in-house marketing groups and activities at current or potential clients;. •  offline direct marketing agencies;. •  mobile and social media; and. •  television, radio, and print companies.. Competition for web traffic among websites and search engines, as well as competition with traditional media companies, has resulted and may continue to result in significant increases in media pricing, declining margins, reductions in revenue, and loss of market share. In addition, if we expand the scope of our services, we may compete with a greater number of websites, clients, and traditional media companies across an increasing range of different services, including in vertical markets where competitors may have advantages in expertise, brand recognition, and other areas. Major internet search companies such as Google, Yahoo! and Microsoft as well as social media platforms such as Facebook have significant numbers of direct sales personnel and substantial proprietary advertising inventory and web traffic that provide a significant competitive advantage. The trend toward consolidation in online marketing may also affect pricing and availability of media inventory and web traffic. Many of our current and potential competitors also enjoy other competitive advantages over us, such as longer operating histories, greater brand recognition, larger client bases, greater access to advertising inventory on high-traffic websites, and greater financial, technical, and marketing resources. As a result, we may not be able to compete successfully. The online advertising marketplace is increasingly analytically driven and if the performance of our advertising services is not better than other marketing service providers' offerings, we could lose clients and market share.. A reduction in online marketing spend by our clients, a loss of clients or lower advertising yields may seriously harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, a substantial portion of our revenue is generated from a limited number of clients and, if we lose a major client, our revenue will decrease and our business and prospects may be harmed.. We rely on clients' marketing spend on our owned-and-operated websites. We have historically derived, and expects to continue to derive, a significant portion of our revenue through the delivery of targeted advertisements, applications, installs and actions and the delivery of qualified customers. One component of our platform that we use to generate client interest is our system of monetization tools, which is designed to match users with client offerings in a manner that optimizes revenue yield and end-user experience. Clients will stop spending marketing funds on our owned-and-operated websites if their investments do not generate actions or qualified users cost effectively. If our yield-optimized monetization techniques to effectively target and match advertisements to our client offerings fail to increase revenue or return on investment for our clients, our clients could curtail their advertising spend with us or cease using our services altogether.. Furthermore, our top 40 advertisers account for a substantial portion of our revenue. Our advertising clients can generally terminate their agreements with us at any time on little or no prior notice. Clients may also fail to renew their agreements or reduce their level of business with us, leading to lower revenue.. Third-party publishers or vendors may engage in unauthorized or unlawful acts that could subject us to significant liability or cause us to lose clients.. We generate a significant portion of our web visitors from online media that we purchase from third-party publishers. While we actively monitor our publishers' activities, we cannot police all such behavior. Any activity by third-party publishers that clients view as potentially damaging to their brands, whether or not permitted by our contracts with our clients, could harm our relationship with the client and cause the client to terminate its relationship with us, resulting in a loss of revenue. In addition, we may also face liability for any failure of our third-party publishers or vendors to comply with regulatory requirements. Users or customers may complain about the content of publisher ads which may expose us to lawsuits and regulatory scrutiny. The law is unsettled on the extent of. 20. liability that an advertiser in our position has for the activities of third-party publishers or vendors. We could be subject to costly litigation and, if we are unsuccessful in defending, could incur damages for the unauthorized or unlawful acts of third-party publishers or vendors.. If we fail to continually enhance and adapt our products and services to keep pace with rapidly changing technologies and industry standards, we may not remain competitive and could lose clients or advertising inventory.. The online media and marketing industry is characterized by rapidly changing standards, changing technologies, frequent new product and service introductions, and changing user and client demands. The introduction of new technologies and services embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards and practices could render our existing technologies and services obsolete and unmarketable or require unanticipated investments in technology. We continually make enhancements and other modifications to our proprietary technologies, and these changes may contain design or performance defects that are not readily apparent. If our proprietary technologies fail to achieve their intended purpose or are less effective than technologies used by our competitors, our business could be harmed.. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to successfully adapt to these rapidly changing online media formats and other technologies. If we fail to adapt successfully, we could lose clients or advertising inventory.. We are exposed to credit risk from and have payment disputes with our advertisers and agency clients and may not be able to collect on amounts owed to us.. Many of our advertising clients are thinly capitalized and pose credit risks. While we run credit checks on our clients, we may nevertheless have difficulty collecting on all amounts owed to it. Some of our clients may challenge the determination of amounts we believe they owe or may refuse to pay because of performance related claims. In these circumstances, we may have difficulty collecting on amounts we believe are owed.. A portion of our client business is sourced through advertising agencies. In many cases, agencies are not required to pay us unless and until they are paid by the underlying client. In addition, many agencies are thinly capitalized and have or may develop high-risk credit profiles. If an agency became insolvent, or if an underlying client does not pay the agency, we may be required to write off accounts receivable as bad debt.. Damage to our reputation could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business is dependent on attracting a large number of visitors to our websites and providing subscribers, inquiries, clicks, calls, applications, and customers to our clients, which depends in part on our reputation within the industry and with our clients. Certain other companies within our industry regularly engage in activities that others may view as unlawful or inappropriate. These activities by third parties may be seen as indicative of participants in our industry and may therefore harm the reputation of all participants in our industry, including us.. Our ability to attract potential users and, thereby, clients, also depends in part on users receiving incentives, job listings, prizes, samples and other content as well as attractive offers from our clients. If our users are not satisfied with the content of our websites or our clients' offerings, our reputation and therefore our ability to attract additional clients and users could be harmed.. In addition, from time to time, we may be subject to investigations, inquiries or litigation by various regulators, which may harm our reputation regardless of the outcome of any such action.. Any damage to our reputation, including from publicity from legal proceedings against us or companies that work within our industry, governmental proceedings, consumer class action litigation, or the disclosure of information security breaches or private information misuse, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our quarterly revenue and results of operations may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter due to fluctuations in advertising spending, including seasonal and cyclical effects.. In addition to other factors that cause our results of operations to fluctuate, results may also be subject to seasonal fluctuation. Furthermore, advertising spend on the internet, similar to traditional media, tends to be cyclical and discretionary as a result of factors beyond our control, including budgetary constraints and buying patterns of clients, as well as economic conditions affecting the internet and media industry. Poor macroeconomic conditions could decrease our clients' advertising spending and thereby have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results.. 21. Limitations on our ability to collect and use data derived from user activities, as well as new technologies that block our ability to deliver internet-based advertising, could significantly diminish the value of our services and have an adverse effect on our ability to generate revenue.. When a user visits our websites, we use technologies to collect information and use registration data provided by users and user response to our dynamically populated survey questions to collect additional user information to create a robust user profile which we use in our targeted ad serving and customer data acquisition services. The use of personal information is the subject of litigation, regulatory scrutiny and industry self-regulatory activities, including the discussion of \"do-not-track\" technologies and guidelines.. Technologies, tools, software and applications (including new and enhanced web browsers) have been developed, and are likely to continue to be developed, that can block or allow users to opt out of display, search, and internet-based advertising and content, or shift the location where advertising appears on pages so that our advertisements do not show up in the most monetizable places on its pages or are obscured. Recently, app developers have developed ad blocking apps for smartphones and other mobile devices which may hinder marketing activities to smartphone users. As a result, the adoption of such technologies, tools, software, and applications could reduce the number of display and search advertisements that we are able to deliver and/or our ability to deliver internet-based advertising and this, in turn, could reduce our results of operations.. Interruptions, failures or defects in our data collection systems, as well as privacy concerns and regulatory changes or enforcement actions affecting us or our data partners' ability to collect user data, could also limit our ability to analyze data from, and thereby optimize, our clients' marketing campaigns. If our access to data is limited in the future, we may be unable to provide effective technologies and services to clients and may lose clients and revenue.. As a creator and a distributor of internet content, we face potential liability and expenses for legal claims based on the nature and content of the materials that we create or distribute. If we are required to pay damages or expenses in connection with these legal claims, our results of operations and business may be harmed.. We display original content and third-party content on our websites and in our marketing messages. As a result, we face potential liability based on a variety of theories, including defamation, negligence, deceptive advertising, copyright or trademark infringement. We are also exposed to risk that content provided by third parties is inaccurate or misleading, and for material posted to our websites by users and other third parties. These claims could divert management time and attention away from our business and result in significant costs to investigate and defend, regardless of the merit of these claims. In addition, if we become subject to these types of claims and are not successful in our defense, we may be forced to pay substantial damages.. We could lose clients if we fail to detect click-through or other fraud on advertisements in a manner that is acceptable to our clients.. We are exposed to the risk of fraudulent clicks or actions on our websites or our third-party publishers' websites, which could lead our clients to become dissatisfied with our campaigns, and in turn, lead to loss of clients and related revenue. Click-through fraud occurs when an individual click on an ad displayed on a website, or an automated system is used to create such clicks, with the intent of generating the revenue share payment to the publisher rather than viewing the underlying content. Action fraud occurs when online lead forms are completed with false or fictitious information in an effort to increase a publisher's compensable actions. From time to time, we have experienced fraudulent clicks or actions. We do not charge our clients for fraudulent clicks or actions when they are detected, and such fraudulent activities could negatively affect our profitability or harm our reputation. If fraudulent clicks or actions are not detected, the affected clients may experience a reduced return on their investment in our marketing programs, which could lead the clients to become dissatisfied with our campaigns, and in turn, lead to loss of clients and related revenue. Additionally, we have, from time to time, had to, and in the future may have to, terminate relationships with publishers who we believe to have engaged in fraud. Termination of such relationships entails a loss of revenue associated with the legitimate actions or clicks generated by such publishers.. Risks Related to the Spin-off. We have incurred significant transaction and transaction-related costs in connection with the Spin-off.. We have incurred significant costs in connection with the previously announced and terminated Business Combination Transaction and the Spin-off, including legal, accounting, consulting, financial advisory, and related fees. We may incur additional costs in effecting the separation and spin-off. Although we expect the Spin-off to benefit both us and Red Violet as independent public companies. We cannot assure you these benefits will be achieved in the near term, or at all.. 22. The Spin-off could give rise to disputes or other unfavorable effects, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.. Disputes with third parties could arise out of the distribution, and we could experience unfavorable reactions to the distribution from employees, investors, or other interested parties. These disputes and reactions of third parties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and results of operations. In addition, following the Spin-off, disputes between us and Red Violet could arise in connection with any of the Separation Agreement, the Tax Matters Agreement, the Employee Matters Agreement or other agreements between the parties.. Under the Separation Agreement, we will indemnify Red Violet for certain liabilities.. Under the Separation Agreement, cogint will agree to indemnify Red Violet for certain liabilities. Although no such liabilities are currently anticipated, if we have to indemnify Red Violet for unanticipated liabilities, the cost of such indemnification obligations may have a material and adverse effect on our financial performance.. A court could deem the Spin-off to be a fraudulent conveyance and void the transaction or impose substantial liabilities upon us.. If the transaction is challenged by a third party, a court could deem the distribution by Red Violet of our common stock or certain internal restructuring transactions undertaken in connection with the Spin-off to be a fraudulent conveyance or transfer. Fraudulent conveyances or transfers are defined to include transfers made or obligations incurred with the actual intent to hinder, delay or defraud current or future creditors or transfers made or obligations incurred for less than reasonably equivalent value when the debtor was insolvent, or that rendered the debtor insolvent, inadequately capitalized or unable to pay its debts as they become due. In such circumstances, a court could void the transactions or impose substantial liabilities upon us, which could adversely affect our financial condition and our results of operations. Among other things, the court could require our stockholders to return to us some or all of the shares of Red Violet common stock issued in the Spin-off or require us to fund liabilities of other companies involved in the restructuring transactions for the benefit of creditors.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile, and the value of an investment in our common stock may decline.. The trading price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors could include:. •  additions or departures of key personnel;. •  changes in governmental regulations or in the status of our regulatory approvals;. •  changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts;. •  any major change in our board or management;. •  general economic conditions and slow or negative growth of our markets; and. •  political instability, natural disasters, war and/or events of terrorism.. From time to time, we estimate the timing of the accomplishment of various commercial and other product development goals or milestones. Also, from time to time, we expect that we will publicly announce the anticipated timing of some of these milestones. All of these milestones are based on a variety of assumptions. The actual timing of these milestones can vary dramatically compared to our estimates, in some cases for reasons beyond our control. If we do not meet these milestones as publicly announced, our stock price may decline.. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of publicly traded companies. Broad market and industry factors may seriously affect the market price of companies' stock, including ours, regardless of actual operating performance. These fluctuations may be even more pronounced in the trading market for our stock. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a particular company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources.. 23. Future issuances of shares of our common stock in connection with acquisitions or pursuant to our stock incentive plans could have a dilutive effect on your investment.. During 2015, 2016, 2017 and through the date hereof, we issued 54,884,418 shares of our common stock in connection with acquisitions, vesting of awards made under our 2008 Share Incentive Plan and our 2015 Stock Incentive Plan (the \"Plans\" collectively), or for other business purposes. Also, an additional 15,048,890 shares underlying awards made under the Plans and other compensatory arrangements might vest and be delivered through 2021. The benefits derived by us from an acquisition might not exceed the dilutive effect of the acquisition. Pursuant to the Plans, our board of directors may grant stock options, restricted stock units (\"RSUs\"), or other equity awards to our directors and employees. When these awards vest or are exercised, the issuance of shares of common stock underlying these awards may have a dilutive effect on our common stock.. The concentration of our stock ownership may limit individual stockholder ability to influence corporate matters.. As of December 31, 2017, officers and directors of the Company and its affiliates owned 59% of the Company's common stock on a fully diluted basis. As a result, these stockholders may be in a position to exert significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and determination of significant corporate actions. The interests of these stockholders may not always coincide with the interests of other stockholders, and these stockholders may act in a manner that advances their interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders, and might affect the prevailing market price for our securities.. In addition, the Company has entered into a Stockholders' Agreement (the \"Stockholders' Agreement\"), with certain officers and directors of the Company and its affiliates, solely in their respective capacities as stockholders of the Company. Under the Stockholders' Agreement, the parties thereto agreed to vote in a certain manner on specified matters, including an agreement to vote in favor of each party's duly approved nominees for the Board.. We expect that we may need additional capital in the future; however, such capital may not be available to us on reasonable terms, if at all, when or as we require additional funding. If we issue additional shares of our common stock or other securities that may be convertible into, or exercisable or exchangeable for, our common stock, our existing stockholders would experience further dilution.. Although we expect that we may need additional capital in the future, we cannot be certain that it will be available to us on acceptable terms when required, or at all. Disruptions in the global equity and credit markets may limit our ability to access capital. To the extent that we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our shareholders would experience dilution, which may be significant and could cause the market price of our common stock to decline significantly. Any debt financing, if available, may restrict our operations. If we are unable to raise additional capital when required or on acceptable terms, we may have to significantly delay, scale back or discontinue certain operations. Any of these events could significantly harm our business and prospects and could cause our stock price to decline."
